REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
(THIS IS NOT AN ORDER)
1. REQUEST NO. THIS RFQ 2. DATE ISSUED

X

PAGE IS IS NOT A SMALL BUSINESS SET ASIDE

OF

PAGES

1

11
RATING

3. REQUISITION/PURCHASE REQUEST NO.

P15PS00748
5a. ISSUED BY

03/19/2015

0040199375

4. CERT. FOR NAT. DEF. UNDER BDSA REG. 2 AND/OR DMS REG.1 6. DELIVERY BY (Date)

NPS, WASO - WCP Contracting P.O.Box 25287 MS WCP Denver CO 80225

Multiple
7. DELIVERY

X

FOB DESTINATION 9. DESTINATION

OTHER (See Schedule)

a. NAME OF CONSIGNEE 5b. FOR INFORMATION CALL: (No collect calls) NAME TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE b. STREET ADDRESS NUMBER

Jaime Mijares
8. TO: a. NAME

303
b. COMPANY

969-2755

c. STREET ADDRESS

c. CITY

d. CITY

e. STATE

f. ZIP CODE

d. STATE

e. ZIP CODE

10. PLEASE FURNISH QUOTATIONS TO THE ISSUING OFFICE IN BLOCK 5a ON OR BEFORE CLOSE OF BUSINESS (Date)

03/30/2019 1700 ET
ITEM NO. (a)

IMPORTANT: This is a request for information, and quotations furnished are not offers. If you are unable to quote, please so indicate on this form and return it to the address in Block 5a. This request does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the preparation of the submission of this quotation or to contract for supplies or services. Supplies are of domestic origin unless otherwise indicated by quoter. Any representations and/or certifications attached to this Request for Quotations must be completed by the quoter. 11. SCHEDULE (Include applicable Federal, State and local taxes)

SUPPLIES/SERVICES (b)

QUANTITY UNIT (c) (d)

UNIT PRICE (e)

AMOUNT (f)

This is a Request for infomration only. Suggested COR: SSWARR Period of Performance: 07/15/2015 to 07/14/2020 THIS IS A REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI) ONLY. This is not an invitation for bids (IFB), request for quotations (RFQ), or request for proposals (RFP). This RFI is issued solely for information and planning purposes. Unsolicited proposals will not be accepted. Funding is not available at this time. The National Park Service has not made a commitment to procure any of the items discussed, and release of this RFI should not be construed as such a commitment or as authorization to incur cost for which reimbursement would be required or sought. All submissions become Government Continued ...
a. 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) b. 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) c. 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) d. CALENDAR DAYS NUMBER PERCENTAGE

12. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT
NOTE: Additional provisions and representations 13. NAME AND ADDRESS OF QUOTER a. NAME OF QUOTER are are not attached 14. SIGNATURE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN QUOTATION

15. DATE OF QUOTATION

b. STREET ADDRESS a. NAME (Type or print) c. COUNTY

16. SIGNER b. TELEPHONE AREA CODE

d. CITY

e. STATE

f. ZIP CODE

c. TITLE (Type or print)

NUMBER

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition not usable

STANDARD FORM 18 (REV. 6-95) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.215-1(a)

CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

P15PS00748

2

11

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

(A)

(B) property and will not be returned.

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

00010

This is a request for information only to determine if there are qualified small business to provide Software Engineering Support for PEPC per attached statement of work. Please submit: - Capabilities statement - Past projects dealing with PEPC support

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86)

Synopsis: THIS IS A REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI) ONLY. This is not an invitation for bids (IFB), request for quotations (RFQ), or request for proposals (RFP). This RFI is issued solely for information and planning purposes. Unsolicited proposals will not be accepted. Funding is not available at this time. The National Park Service has not made a commitment to procure any of the items discussed, and release of this RFI should not be construed as such a commitment or as authorization to incur cost for which reimbursement would be required or sought. All submissions become Government property and will not be returned. Not responding to this RFI does not preclude participation in any future RFP if any is issued. If a solicitation is released, it will be synopsized in the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOps) website. It is the responsibility of the potential responders to monitor this site for additional information pertaining to this subject. Description: The National Park Service (NPS) is seeking information regarding the attached draft Performance Work Statement. Specifically, the NPS is seeking information on The purpose of this contract is to The purpose of the support services described in this statement of work is to provide onsite technical expertise for the research, development, testing and deployment of the applications used by the Planning, Environment and Public Comment (PEPC) system managed by NRSS-EQD. The draft Performance Work Statement is for PEPC support. The closing date for this RFI is March 30, 2015. The Government will not reimburse contractors or responders to this notice for any costs incurred in responding, or any subsequent exchange of information. All responses shall be transmitted electronically to Jaime_Mijares@nps.gov. POC: Jaime Mijares Contract Specialist National Park Service, Washington Contracting Office 303-969-2755 Jaime_Mijares@nps.gov

1

SECTION C DESCRIPTIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR IMPROVE OPERATIONS AND FILTER ANALYSIS

2

Software Engineering Staff to support the Environmental Quality Division's Planning, Environment and Public Comment (PEPC) system. Peformance Work Statement Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the contractor shall provide the NPS with all labor and services necessary to implement the following.

A

General Information

A.1 Introduction This requirement is for onsite labor and services to support the U.S. Department of Interior, National Park Service, Natural Resource Stewardship and Science, Environmental Quality Division, Planning, Environment and Public Comment (PEPC) system. These services comprise the design, development, implementation, operation, documentation, and maintenance of database, web-based, and environmental solutions for the management of natural resource, environmental related data and information. A.2 Background The Natural Resource NRSS Stewardship and Science (NRSS) Directorate provides leadership, expertise, and scientific information to ensure that the natural resources of the lands managed by the National Park Service (NPS) remain unimpaired for future generations. NRSS coordinates natural resource inventory and monitoring activities; implements technical natural resource management solutions; acts as a national clearinghouse for natural resource management information; and informs NPS staff and the public about natural resource management programs and activities. NRSS has a multi-disciplinary staff that includes scientists, natural resource managers, information technology specialists, policy and regulatory compliance experts, and educators. Natural resource topics addressed by components of NRSS include: water resources, geology, soils, air resources, natural sounds, biological resources, and compliance with environmental regulations. The Environmental Information Management Branch is responsible for the oversight of the environmental applications including the PEPC System. A.3 Scope of Work The purpose of the support services described in this statement of work is to provide onsite technical expertise for the research, development, testing and deployment of the applications used by the Planning, Environment and Public Comment (PEPC) system managed by NRSS-EQD. This system is used to manage compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) on all park projects, public review of NPS documents, plans, and projects, as well as the public comment and comment analysis; Additionally, technical expertise is needed to facilitate interaction/integration with current hardware and network infrastructure, (whether hosted by NPS or by Cloud provider), other department or bureau systems as well as advise other bureaus or departments on developing similar systems. Work is assigned and reviewed by the NPS PEPC Program Lead. B. Technical Requirements

B.1 The contractor shall maintain existing tools and services, and research, design, develop, and implement improved tools and services to manage and share natural resource information in both secure and public internet environments. The contractor shall, as requested, facilitate interaction/integration with other systems as well as advise other bureaus and agencies on developing similar systems based on expertise with the existing NPS systems. The contractor is responsible for ensuring software is patched, security issues are addressed according to DOI requirements, software is

3

migrated to new versions as directed, and application is properly configured with current hardware and network infrastructure (whether hosted by NPS or by Cloud provider). B.1.1 The NPS Planning, Environment and Public Comment (PEPC) System

PEPC is a web-based environmental management system designed for compliance planning, project collaboration and review, and public involvement. It is used to promote the project management process in conservation planning and environmental impact analysis. It assists NPS employees in making informed decisions with regard to compliance issues throughout the planning, design, and construction process. PEPC allows park staff to: track and manage projects, collaborate as interdisciplinary team members on projects, post plans and related documents to the public, review and analyze the public comments and respond to public concerns. PEPC assists with protecting the environment of national parks by: helping NPS employees prepare Environmental Screening and Assessment of Effect forms, simplifying the scheduling of site visits as well as the tracking of tasks and mitigations, tracking environmental consultations, and helping everyone involved in the process to make better decisions. PEPC assists with public comment to the National Park Service by: allowing NPS employees to communicate plans, meetings, and the status of projects via the Internet, making information available to the public in a single, easily-accessible location and providing a unified portal for public consultation and comment analysis. The PEPC system currently contains approximately 38,000 project records in the production database. Approximately 5,000 new projects are documented in PEPC each year. Technical requirements include onsite services to:  Maintain and update existing tools, using ColdFusion and Oracle for both the secure and the public Internet applications.  Use ColdFusion administrator to monitor and configure ColdFusion applications, data sources, logs, and web services.  Develop and demonstrate the use of integrated decision-support technologies that use a wide variety of state-of-the-art technical hardware and software for both the secure and the public Internet PEPC applications.  Develop, maintain, and implement tools, procedures, and services in line with the NRSS architecture, and NPS web standards.  Write, debug, and maintain code and technical documentation for all applications, including versioning software such as Subversion or Visual Source Safe.  Translate system requirements into application prototypes.  Plan and design systems architecture and user interfaces.  Integrate hardware and software components, and work with customers to test applications and troubleshoot errors.  Write complex SQL and PL/SQL queries to access Oracle databases and create data objects for use in web applications, including Oracle packages/stored procedures and ColdFusion cfcs.  Use Oracle Enterprise Manager (EM), Toad, and other database tools to maintain and modify the tables, views, triggers, constraints and packages..  Facilitate consistent data management techniques, technologies and integration with other NPS applications and information systems.  Document data structure, data dictionary, metadata, and table relationships.  Maintain data integrity via data input constraints, review and correction.  Resolve constantly emergent security issues; increasing requirements, new threats, and evolving software configurations, according to DOI requirements.  Monitor and oversee public interface to maximize up-time as well as for monitoring and addressing security issues, browser compatibility, and general functionality for the public facing parkplanning.nps.gov.

4

    



As requested, interact with other Federal or State agencies, or private organizations interested in NRSS software applications and seeking assistance or guidance in operational data processing and end user training as it relates to the specified software. Provide support for other planning and workflow software applications as requested. Investigate and plan integration with other NRSS systems and architecture. Provide technical support to end users. The contractor will serve as technical subject matter expert capable of explaining complex software design and functionality to help NPS, DOI, and others understand how PEPC operates behind the software interface and to provide guidance necessary to achieve system integration objectives. The contractor is responsible for ensuring software is patched, migrated to new versions as directed, and application is properly configured with current hardware and network infrastructure (whether hosted by NPS or by Cloud provider).

B.1.2 The contractor shall implement NRSS IT application standards.  Establish, implement, and maintain business modeling, requirements, analysis and design, implementation, testing, deployment, and configuration/change management procedures to meet DOI and NPS standards. Software tools to be used are: ColdFusion, Adobe Design (Dreamweaver, Flash) .NET; Visual Studio Suite; Oracle 11g, SQL Server, C#, Java, Ajax and other technology as it becomes available.  In conjunction with NRSS IT support staff, design and deploy development, QA, staging, and production environments;  Ensure code,procedures and configurations are in accordance with NPS and U.S. Department of Interior security standards and other U.S. Government policies or procedures.  Design, develop, deploy, and maintain NPS units service; notification service; web services to/from other NPS systems,authentication and access control services. Other supporting or related services may be required or requested.  Ensure best programming practices to prevent security vulnerabilities.

B.1.3 All deliverables must comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act OF 1973, (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended in 1998.
 The activity to be performed relates to or requires the use of Electronic and Information Technology (EIT). Section 508 must be considered as a requirement for Software Development service outputs/deliverables to ensure that it considers specific Section 508 accessibility requirements. Further, Software Development outputs/deliverables should not adversely affect accessibility features of existing EIT technologies. Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their background and experience will enable them to at least meet those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Software Development outputs/deliverables should meet applicable accessibility requirements and should not adversely affect accessibility features of existing EIT technologies. Functional performance criteria from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart C have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their background and experience will enable them to at least meet those functional performance criteria identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Software Development
5



 



outputs/deliverables will meet at least those information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Part C. Supporting Information
C.1 Place of Performance All tasks shall be performed at the NRSS facility in Fort Collins, Colorado, while on approved travel, or in an approved telework location. The preferred work schedule is eight hours per day. Alternative work schedules (e.g., 5-4-9, four 10s) are available. The contract staff may telecommute
one day/week, and in the event of inclement weather or another circumstance that hinders safe travel to and from the EQD's office. Note the works hours for non-NPS personnel listed below.

Core hours are 9-3. Building locations, access, and maintenance are covered in the NRSS employee handbook which states the following: "The NRSS Fort Collins Office is located at 1201 Oakridge Drive, Fort Collins, Colorado, 80525. Access cards to the building are issued by the Administrative Officer upon notification by the Denver Administrative Program Center (APC) that an employee's preliminary background checks have been completed. Access cards issued to Federal employees have different access privileges than cards issued to contractors. Federal employees have access to all doors at all times: 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. Building access cards issued to non-NPS personnel are active only Monday ­ Friday, 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., but not active on Federal holidays. If an employee needs for a contractor to have to access the building outside of these times, the employee must be present while the non-Federal person is in the building." C.2 Period of Performance The desired period of performance would be July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016. C.3 Qualifications of Key Personnel

C.3.1 All services under this contract are required to be conducted by trained personnel who have the knowledge, skills, and abilities to provide services immediately and with no unnecessary delays. Key personnel are expected to have the appropriate computer science or information technology background in addition to natural resource education, training or experience with natural resource systems in order to successfully complete the work under this contract. C.3.2 The contractor shall present resumes of all personnel who are proposed to work under this contract. Resumes shall contain contact information for professional references, and information on work that candidates have performed on similar projects. NRSS reserves the right to judge the qualifications and previous work history of any individual proposed by the contractor for any position. Upon written notification, NRSS may require the contractor to replace an individual whose qualifications or work performance are judged deficient.

6

Certain skilled and experienced professional and/or technical personnel are essential for accomplishing the work to be performed. The general qualifications and number of these positions recommended by NRSS are provided in Table 1.
Team Lead/Architect 1 full-time Lead-level specialist proficient in leading development and maintenance of applications in the ColdFusion environments including ColdFusion, C#, Ajax, and Web development tools such as Dreamweaver. Responsible for overall system architecture. Acts as a backup to the NPS System Manager. Interacts with other bureaus and agencies in leading integration efforts. Experience with Oracle and SQL Server required. Experience building Web Services in an SSL environment required. Experience with Java/J2EE and object oriented programming preferred. Experience administering IIS and ColdFusion servers preferred. Candidates who have served as Team Lead or Senior IT Specialist will be given preference. Must have demonstrated ability to work well in a team environment. Must have experience as team leader or project manager in order to provide direction to other IT specialists and ensure required benchmarks are met for multiple projects. Bachelor's degree in computer science, business, biological sciences, natural resource discipline, or closely related field, 10 or more years developing in a ColdFusion environment, 8 or more years of work-related experience or an equivalent combination of a graduate degree and additional experience desired. Postgraduate training or certifications usually required to achieve and maintain competence in computer programming, database management, and systems administration. Senior Software Engineer 1full-time Senior Software Engineer position, proficient in developing and maintaining applications in the ColdFusion environments including ColdFusion, C#, Ajax, and Web development tools such as Dreamweaver. Experience with Oracle and SQL Server databases required. Experience building Web Services in an SSL environment preferred. Experience with Java/J2EE and object oriented programming preferred. Experience administering IIS and ColdFusion servers preferred. Experience providing support for internal clients. Bachelor's degree in computer science, biological sciences, natural resource discipline, or closely related field, 8 or more years developing in a ColdFusion environment, 6 or more years of work-related experience or an equivalent combination of a graduate degree and additional experience. Postgraduate training or certifications preferred to maintain competence in computer programming, database management, and/or systems administration. Part-time, estimated 200 hours per year. Manages the contracting staff with a focus on delivering the end result to the client. Manage all aspects of the contract including payroll, contractor time and attendance, hiring, performance assessments, progress reports, financial updates and contract modifications. A minimum of 10 years successful Project Management experience with significant experience managing environmental projects. Proven ability to communicate professionally and effectively with technical and business staff.

Project Manager

1

Table 1.

7

C.4

Special Considerations

C.4.1 Staffing Notification Process The contractor will present detailed resumes of key personnel who are proposed to work under this contract. Resumes will contain contact information for professional references, and information on work that candidates have performed on similar projects. NRSS reserves the right to review the qualifications and previous work history of any individual proposed by the contractor for any position. Upon written notification, NRSS may require the contractor to replace an individual whose qualifications or work performance are judged deficient during performance and after contractor remedial actions. C.4.2 Contractor Project Management The contractor shall provide on-site (biweekly) oversight for contract, personnel, and staff performance management. Monthly status reports of work accomplished are required. C.4.3 Government-furnished Materials and Services C.4.3.1 NRSS will furnish all materials necessary for services to be performed, including hardware, software, telecommunications, Internet and e-mail, office space, and office supplies. As determined by mutual agreement, NRSS will provide additional property that may be required in the performance of this effort. C.4.3.2 NRSS will furnish all information, directives, and policies related to practices and procedures required by the U.S. Department of the Interior, the National Park Service, and any other government oversight offices. C.4.4 Security All contractor personnel providing services related to this statement of work must submit to U.S. Government background checks, including fingerprinting, and receive approval rating. Fingerprinting expense will be paid by the government. All contractor personnel must comply with the terms of use of U.S. Department of Interior computers and information systems, and complete computer security training and other related training as required. Access to NRSS facilities is controlled and identification and access cards are required by all contractor staff. C.4.5 Travel Occasional travel may be required of contractor personnel. All travel will be conducted in accordance with federal travel regulations; government vehicles will not be provided. Travel costs will be negotiated and included by modification when the occasional travel occurs. C.4.6 Professional Development Professional development funds will be paid by the Contractor.

8

C.4.7 Limited Use of Data Information made available to the contractor by NRSS for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer. Performance of this effort may require the contractor to access and use sensitive or commercially valuable data and information proprietary to NRSS and/or NPS; the dissemination or use of these data, other than in performance of this effort, would be adverse to the interests of the Government and/or others. The contractor and/or contractor personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained in performance of this effort until made public by NRSS and/or NPS, except to authorized NRSS personnel or upon written approval of the Contracting Officer. The contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend, other than as required in the performance of this effort. C.4.8 Ownership of Data and Products All data, materials, and products collected, created, or generated in the course of performance of this contract become the property of the National Park Service. The National Park Service reserves the right to obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use products produced under this contract, and to authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such products for Federal Government purposes. C.4.9 Subcontracting The contractor may subcontract up to 20% of the proposed contract value. The contractor shall present resumes of all personnel who are proposed to work under this subcontract. Resumes shall contain contact information for professional references, and information on work that candidates have performed on similar projects. NRSS reserves the right to judge the qualifications and previous work history of any individual proposed by the subcontractor for any position. Upon written notification, NRSS may require the contractor to replace an individual whose qualifications or work performance are judged deficient. C.4.10 Term of Contract The initial term of contract is for one base year. There are four one year option periods that maybe exercised by the Government in accordance with FAR paragraph 52.217-09.

9

