

                                                            Performance Work Statement

                                                         General Services Administration
                                                    Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer
                                                        Office of Human Resources Services
                                                Office of Training and Organizational Development

                                          GSA On-Line University (OLU) Learning Management System (LMS)

Task Type: Firm-Fixed Price (FFP)

1.0 BACKGROUND

The General Services Administration (GSA), Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO), Office of Human Resources (HR) Services, Office of
Training and Organizational Development (CPT) has a need to continue providing GSA On-line University Learning Management System (LMS) services.
 The OLU must have a LMS platform to deliver learning services.

GSA employs approximately 12,800 Government employees and 5,000 contractors in Central Office, Washington, D.C., and eleven regional nationwide
locations (Boston, MA; New York City, NY; Philadelphia, PA; Atlanta, GA; Chicago, IL; Kansas City, MO; Ft. Worth, TX; Denver, CO; San Francisco,
CA; Seattle, WA; Washington, DC; and Central Office in Washington, DC) with smaller local offices and abroad.

GSA Online University is currently hosted at the Learn.com Learning Management System (LMS) platform and this hosting service under the current
contract is expiring on September 30, 2010.  GSA is soliciting to contract with a LMS provider to host its On-Line University to continue
providing learning activities to its employees and contractors. The OLU supports GSA Office of Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) needs and
their stakeholder’s learning requirements by providing an enterprise-wide system to manage on-line training, instructor led training, individual
development plans, and competency management.

This performance works statement documents current requirements for the support of the GSA OLU LMS current system configuration.

2.0   OBJECTIVES

GSA’s strategic goal is to implement an enterprise-wide training model through a single, centralized LMS that supports GSA current and future
education, training, and development functions.  An enterprise wide training model reduces the costs of providing GSA’s training and development
services by avoiding duplicate costs for tracking and recording training activities, managing training records, producing mandated reports and
funds disbursement.

The LMS is integral to capturing the necessary data elements on the GSA workforce that would aid in the identification of areas where required
training or continuous learning requirements are not being met.

The OLU LMS’ value is to support a blended learning approach to employee learning and development, and managing training from enrollment to
course completion.

The continuance of the current OLU LMS configuration is a key to current and future education, training, and development requirements that
facilitate learning and complete required administrative requirements in a sing le system while providing an efficient platform to increase our
Return on Investment (ROI) for human capital management and development.

3.0   SCOPE

The Contractor shall provide an enterprise-wide LMS supporting the continued delivery of the learning activities via an electronic learning
environment to support the GSA OLU and employees’ workplace learning and development needs.  The scope of this effort includes providing
services and support for the continued delivery of an enterprise-wide LMS capable of managing the training process and activities from one
centralized integrative system that:

    ▪ Registers attendees
    ▪ Enrollment feature with waitlist capability
    ▪ Monitors enrollment
    ▪ Tracks funding
    ▪ Records graduation/course completion
    ▪ Provides testing and assessment tools that output basic data analysis exportable to spreadsheet
    ▪ Provides survey tools that output basic data analysis exportable to spreadsheet
    ▪ Provides collaboration among users
    ▪ Includes robust competency management capabilities to allow:
         o Creation and Modification of competency titles and descriptions
         o Creation and modification of competency levels
         o Creation, definition, and  modification of job roles
         o Ability to weigh competencies in job roles
         o Ability to assign competencies to job roles
         o Ability to nest competencies
         o Ability to assign proficiency levels for a competency to a job role
         o Ability to identify, assign, create, and modify job series and grades
         o Ability to import competency assessment results from other systems
         o Ability to support 3rd party competency model data / definitions
         o Incorporates an Individual Development Plan (IDP)
         o Ability to add recommended training interventions to employee IDP
         o Ability to automatically update satisfaction of training requirements
         o Ability to create competency assessment
         o Ability to create competency assessment questions
         o Ability to create and modify subordinate assessments
         o Ability to assign user permissions competencies, assessments
         o Provides Skills gap and competency analysis
         o Captures developmental assignments/details
    ▪ Supports Human Capital Planning
    ▪ Fully interface/integrated with existing systems (Comprehensive Human Resources Integrated System (CHRIS) / CHRIS Training
      Documentation System (TDS) Module, etc)
    ▪ Meets OPM’s EHRI training tracking and reporting requirement (CHRIS TDS).
    ▪ Provides integrated metrics for measuring return on investment (ROI): (i.e.:  comprehensively measure end user satisfaction; the level of
      learning accomplished; the impact of learning on job performance; the impact of learning on the accomplishment of the business direction
      and goals of an organization; and the overall return on investment of the LMS and learning initiative.).
    ▪ Includes a Reporting feature that provides user-friendly graphical user interface, menu-driven, customizable, printer-friendly canned
      reports with charts that are accessible by end-user (training administrators, supervisors, and managers) such as:
         ­ Number of users completed a particular course(s).  Need to be able to display course and user profile info to include but not limited
           to the followings: First Name, Last Name, Email, Region, Org Code, Course Title, Course Start Date, Course End Date, Score.
         ­ Number of users who have started a particular course(s).
         ­ Number of courses in the LMS.
         ­ Total number of completion by course(s)
         ­ Total number of active users, inactive users
         ­ Total users who have accessed course(s)
         ­ Course(s) accessed by date range, by user, by group
         ­ Course usage, including duration per course.
         ­ Number of courses completed by venue (i.e, online, Instructor-led, blended) during a specified period of time.
         ­ Historical trend data comparing courses completed over a specified period of time
         ­ Competency reports on skill gaps in numeric and graphic representation
         ­ Ability to track skill gaps over time
         ­ Ability to filter competencies, job roles
         ­ Ability to compare training progress to skills gaps
         ­ Ability to search for employees by competency
         ­ Ability to map current competencies / skills of employees against competency / skill requirements for target jobs


The OLU users include personnel with GSA’s Central Office staff offices, Services (Federal Acquisition Service and Public Building Service) and
11 Regional offices located across the US and its territories, including places outside the continental United States.

Ongoing contractor support of the LMS platform is critical to continuing OLU delivery of learning and development in an electronic learning
environment.


4.0   TASKS

Task 1 – Project Plan
The contractor shall provide a project plan that describes the approach, organizational resources, and management controls to be used in meeting
the performance and schedule requirements throughout Task Order execution.  A resource loaded project schedule (Gantt Chart) to detail and track
activities, milestones, and deliverables shall be included in the plan.  The Project Plan shall show the due dates when each deliverable will be
produced and describe supporting tasks to accomplish those deliverables.  The project schedule should be prepared using Microsoft Project
software.

Deliverable:  Project Plan

Task 2 – Service Delivery
The Contractor shall provide an enterprise-wide LMS platform that supports 12,800 federal employees and 5,000 contractors in accessing effective
training activities through GSA Online University.  This includes providing system engineering, administrative, and technical support for the
hosted environment, such as, but not limited to, configuring and maintaining the system hardware, software and network environment to maintain
the system in a normal, continuously operational state.

Services shall support stakeholder’s access to the learning system on 24 hours per day / 7 days per week (24x7) basis; provide for easy
enrollment in courses; record completed training; provide for management of learning activities; and provide Tier-1 online helpdesk support.

Task 3 – Develop and Configure a Competency Management Model for the Acquisition Workforce Division

The contractor shall develop a competency management model for the Acquisition Workforce Division configurable using features of the integrated
competency tool.  Using the competency management module, the contractor shall configure a competency management system for the Acquisition
Workforce Division.  The configuration will allow managers to assess employees’ proficiencies based upon criteria defined by the Acquisition
Workforce Division. The system will display employees by proficiency levels defined by the Acquisition Workforce Division. The configured model
shall perform the following actions:
    • Assess employees’ proficiencies in defined competencies areas and identify employee competency gaps.
    • Automatically link skills gaps to training interventions
    • Distribute assessment communications to target groups
    • Import Glossary and create a Resource Library from third-party competency management systems.
    • Compare assessment score against individual(s), peer(s), region(s), service(s), and organization(s)
    • Generate reports based on service, regions, organization, GS level, warrant type/level, job function, and years of acquisition experience
    • Generate reports based on competency, average skills gaps, average score, target score, #of users with skills gaps, % of users with skills
      gaps, and number of users
    • Sort on all defined assessment database fields such as: ID, Questions, Answers, Correct Answer, Competency, GS Group, Score, Case_ID, Sort
      Order, Case Description, Answer Feedback, References, Test Number, Test Question Order, Sub Competencies


The Government will provide contractor with competency definitions, job definitions, assessment criteria, assignment definitions, assignment
criteria, pre-defined proficiency levels, and work with contractor to identify appropriate interventions to address skill gaps.

Work on the Competency Management Model for the Acquisition Workforce Division is expected to begin immediately upon contract award, with a
deliverable due date of April 29, 2011. This is a one time requirement and must be completed in the base year by the delivery date.

Deliverable:  Competency Model for the Acquisition Workforce Division

A.  Delivery - General
   1) Phase 1: On-Line University core Learning Management System (LMS) platform.

   2) The LMS platform shall be deployed GSA wide once approved*** for release to GSA workforce.  The LMS platform will support 12,800 federal
      employees and 5,000 contractors in accessing effective training activities.  The LMS platform shall provide opportunities to further
      implement an enterprise-wide application that will enable training administrators to emphasize training opportunities and support business
      goals.

      ***Approval is contingent on receipt of DAA authority to operate (ATO) or interim ATO.


B. Delivery – System Functionality, Administration, Technical, and General Requirements
   (see Appendix A - Requirement Summary document for details)


1) LMS Communication Functionality:  Communication to the learning audience, the LMS shall continue to provide communication functionality on a
   daily 24/7 operational basis consistent with the capabilities identified in items CM1 thru CM9 of the attached requirements document.

2) General Requirements:  The LMS shall continue to provide services as described in items GE1 thru GE15 of the attached requirements document.



3) Course Management:  Management of Training Events within the LMS, the LMS shall continue to have the capability to mange learning activities
   consistent with items MG1 thru MG24 of the attached requirements document.

4) Report Generation: The LMS system shall continue to provide the capability to create standardized and customized report consistent with items
   RG1 thru RG7 of the attached requirements document.

5) Scheduling:  Instructor Led Training (ILT) course/session scheduling, the LMS system shall continue to provide capability to load, maintain,
   and generate ILT course schedules automatically in the LMS consistent with items SH1 thru SH13 of the attached requirements document.

6) LMS Virtual Classroom:  Synchronous and Asynchronous Training Support, the LMS system shall continue to provide notification to the
   designated administrator(s) that a new session of an ILT event is required.  Support shall be delivered consistent with items VC1 thru VC10 of
   the attached requirements document.

7) Integrated Competency Management Capabilities:
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Configure and Modify Competencies
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Configure and Modify Proficiency Levels
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to nest competencies within competencies
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Configure and Modify Job Roles
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Define Job Roles
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to identify Mission Critical Job Roles for the Organization
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to assign Competencies to Job Roles
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to assign a Proficiency Level for a Competency to a Job Role
      ­ The Product shall have the ability for a Supervisor to assign Job Roles to a Subordinates
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Associate Job Roles to Competencies and Proficiency Levels
      ­ The Product shall have the ability to Associate Proficiency Level Gaps with Training Interventions
      ­ Ability to Import Competency Assessment results from other systems
      ­ Ability to Indicate Relative Importance of a Competency to a Job


    8) Technical Requirements: LCMS/LMS - system supports 128-bit SSL (software) for all pages that show student information.  The system shall
       conform to the technical requirements described in items TR1 thru TR12 of the attached requirements document.

    9) LCMS/LMS System Administration:  User/System Administration Functions - system shall provide mechanism/functionality to allow a user to
       retrieve a forgotten password or to reset to a temporary, one-time use only password that the system forces the user to change when this
       temporary password is used.  Function should operate in a fashion similar to currently available e-commerce/internet websites/portals.
       Support shall be delivered consistent with the User/System Administration items described in SA1 thru SA10 & SA19 thru SA21 of the
       attached requirements document.

   10) CHRIS/eHRI file creation/acceptance must be completed prior to October 1, 2010) and review must continue monthly.  The file must meet the
       OPM’s EHRI training tracking and reporting requirement.

       Upload eHRI Data:  The system should be able to upload data to OPM’s eHRI data repository in the eHRI specified format.  Additional
       information including file submission format and procedure can be found in Chapter 4 Training Interface Processing of the Guide to Human
       Resource Reporting: http://www.opm.gov/feddata/ghrr/.  EHRI requirements include:  collecting, compiling, formatting, and electronically
       submitting data as required by OPM in the EHRI Interface Control Document.  Mandatory submissions should be automated with minimal agency
       system administrator action required.  The Contractor must maintain a process for establishing these submissions; coordinate actions
       required by the system administrator to set up and make the required submissions, and identify reports available to monitor and verify
       the submissions.

   11)  Historical back-up data file must be created, forwarded and accepted prior to October 1, 2010, and monthly thereafter.

   12) The Contractor shall continue to host existing products, such as SkillSoft Library, webroom, etc.  SkillSoft requirements include:  The
       Contractor shall host and maintain courseware from SkillSoft (IT and Business Skill Library, approx. 2000 courses).  Maintaining shall
       include installing new courses on a content server, configuring the course(s) into a test environment, and verifying that a sampling
       launches, tracks, bookmarks, and marks completion.  SkillSoft releases courses on a monthly basis.  The Contractor shall have the courses
       ready within 30 days of delivery from the content vendor.  Associated courseware players for each content vendor are to be updated
       quarterly, as needed.



  12) Contractor’s system must be scalable and have the ability to accommodate a future, secure bidirectional electronic interface between our
      LMS and our GSA CHRIS Human Resource system or other GSA HR information systems utilized for recording and maintaining employee
      development.  This interface is to accommodate the transfer of data between the two systems. At the time the interface is needed, GSA will
      provide the necessary requirements in order for the vendor to determine their level of effort and cost to GSA to design, implement,
      maintain, and provide technical support for the new bidirectional interface.

  13) Contractor’s COTS system must be scalable and have the ability to be integrated into our Identity Control Access Management (ICAM) system.
      To accommodate this requirement, the vendor’s system must have the ability to interface with our internal or an external Logical Access
      Control System (LACS). Currently the government anticipates the LACS integration requirement to take place sometime in FY2011.   This will
      entail:


     a. The LMS contractor shall integrate the LMS with the GSA LACS Solution to enable single sign-on, user access self-service modules, user
        data provisioning and de-provisioning capabilities, and centralized identity management and reporting capabilities


     b. The LMS contractor shall install and configure GSA LACS Solution software agents to effectively communicate with the GSA LACS Services


     c. The LMS contractor shall coordinate with data center infrastructure services teams to enable secure communication between the LACS
        Solution and the “application” user stores (i.e., application user databases or directories) to support user provisioning and de-
        provisioning services.


     d. The LMS contractor shall coordinate with data center infrastructure services teams to enable secure communication between the LACS
        Solution web agent and the LMS web application server.


     e. The LMS contractor shall collaboratively work with the GSA LACS Team to enable required LACS Services


     f. The LMS contractor shall document changes made to the LMS using GSA LACS forms and other “application” specific change management forms.

      Contractor’s system shall reside behind a secure firewall that will be connected to GSA’s internal network infrastructure. Only OLU users
      should be able to access the system from outside the firewall. All other system access is to strictly remain behind the firewall.

      Contactor shall use FIPS 140-2 compliant encryption


      The LMS system must be 100% compliant with GSA’s current Enterprise Architecture Information Technology Reference Model and shall maintain
      compatibility with this Model throughout the life of the contract:
        a. Web Browsers
        b. Delivery Servers
        c. Business Intelligence Tools
        d. Desktop Operating System
        e. Desktop Utilities
        f. Database Connectivity
        g. Database Management Servers
        h. Accessibility / 508 Technologies
        i. Business Logic
        j. Server Operating Systems
        k. Software Engineering
        l. Digital Document Technology
        m. IT Security Tools

5.0   SECURITY

      The Contractor shall maintain and operate the technical infrastructure and comply with all current Federal and GSA security guidelines and
      the current Systems Security Plan.  The Contractor shall:
         • ensure that Web sites and data are secured behind appropriate perimeter defense technologies and that these technologies are
           programmatically monitored for anomalous traffic behavior(s). Contractor shall immediately report any unauthorized access to the
           Information System Security Officer (ISSO).

         • ensure that PII (Personally Identifiable Information, defined by FOIA) data is never allowed on any system with Internet access.

         • conducts (or causes completion of) a FISMA-conforming C&A process of the System prior to the System being placed into production. C&A
           process complies with all GSA requirements, FIPS mandates, and NIST guidance.  SSP produced for C&A includes provisions listed in
           NIST SP 800-18 (Guide for developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems).

      The contractor shall employ Secure Socket Layer technology consistent with the approved System Security Plan.  At a minimum, SSL is to be
      enabled where sensitive information is captured or displayed, and on the system login page.  The contractor is responsible for:
         ▪ providing a Secure Socket Layer Certificate;
         ▪ the certificate’s renewal and cost of renewal;
         ▪ verifying that all system components can function correctly while running in an SSL environment.



      Completion of a Security Certification and Accreditation:

      Products, services, hosting facilities, and service providers are required to undergo a security certification and accreditation process as
      described by NIST Special Publication 800-37.  Additional information may be found at:
      http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/index.html.


      To support this requirement:

      ▪ The contractor shall perform a self assessment in accordance with NIST 800-26 to demonstrate compliance with IT security controls.
        GSA will assess the security controls through a joint scan of the environment.  The contractor shall remediate weaknesses and
        vulnerabilities found. As directed, the contractor shall submit documentation demonstrating remediation actions taken to resolve
        identified weaknesses and vulnerabilities.

      ▪ The contractor shall provide all Certification and Accreditation (C&A)-related documentation identified below to ensure that
        appropriate combinations of security measures are identified and implemented to counter relevant threats and vulnerabilities to the
        system.


   Deliverables:

     1) Complete updated Risk Assessment;
     2) Completed updated System Security Plan;
     3) Completed updated Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M); for all severe, major and high vulnerabilities
     4) Completed updated Security Assessment Report
     5) Completion of an updated documented System Security Certification and Accreditation package that would support the
        accreditation of the System for continued operation.
     6) Completion of an updated documented Contingency Plan;
     7) Completion of an updated documented Configuration Management Plan
     8) Complete updated employee trusted roster (all contractors and support personnel having access to GSA LMS system)

On being granted approval to process production data, the contractor shall conduct monthly vulnerability scans of the system and submit logs to
the GSA ISSO.  The Contractor shall remediate high and moderate risk vulnerabilities within 30 calendar days.


System User Roles & Access

The Contractor shall enforce password security and support role-based access to the system as enumerated and directed by the Government.  System
rights and privileges shall be assigned and enforced consistent with GSA guidance.  Roles may include:


      User - anyone who accesses the system as a guest, employee-student, or as an administrator;


      Guest - an individual accessing the system without being logged in.  No information is to be saved for a Guest user.  A Guest user is not
      required to log into the system.  The Guest user is limited to only seeing items such as informational pages and catalogues.


      Employee-Student - An employee-student is an individual accessing the system for the purpose of obtaining training or assessing their own
      competencies in the system.


      Supervisor - an individual who immediately supervises one or more employee-students in the system.


      Manager - an individual who supervises one or more employee-students in the system.  A manager need not be the immediate supervisor of an
      employee-student.


      Training Administrator (TA) - Training Administrator are responsible for running reports, updating information stored in the system,
      managing training activities, and competencies in the system.  GSA may require several levels of training administrators.


      Financial Administrator (FA) - Financial Administrators are responsible for financial activities in the system.


      System Administrator (SA) - System Administrator administers the global settings for the system, define roles, and grant rights and access.
       This role is frequently called "Super User" or "Root".


      Content Administrator (CA) - Content Administrators are responsible for catalog and content administration on the system.


      Report Developer - The Report Developer role is responsible for the creation of reports using the system's ad hoc reporting capability.



      Report Administrator - The Report Administrator has sufficient system rights to allow them to run reports.  The report administrator lacks
      privileges to modify the data stored in the system.  The Report Administrator role differs from the Training Administrator role by its
      inability to modify data.



6.0   SYSTEM DATA BACKUPS

The Contractor shall provide full data backup twice a month (1st and 15th of the month) to the GSA COTR.  GSA will verify that the data is
readable upon receipt.

In addition to the full backups, the contractor shall perform nightly differential or incremental backups and weekly full backups of
transactional data.  Examples of transactional data would include employee data, training history, and course configuration information.

Full backups on non transactional data are to be performed at a minimum of monthly, immediately before a change occurs, and after a change to
non-transactional data has been made.  An example of a non-transactional data would be the web site.

All system backups of information that contain PII data are to be encrypted, stored and media used is to be disposed of in a manner that meet
OMB Memorandum-06-16 and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines.

Tapes and other media may not be used for non-GSA projects or activities.

7.0   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

Required Operational Hours

The targeted availability of the system is 24x7.

Required % Uptime

The contractor shall maintain 99.7% uptime of the system during core service hours (7 am to 10 pm Eastern).  Overall, the uptime, at a minimum,
shall be no less than 99.0% for all other hours, excluding any scheduled maintenance. The contractor shall ensure that there is no more than two
(2) short term (less than two hours) planned or unplanned outages in any given performance quarter, and no more than one (1) (less than eight
hours) single major planned or unplanned outage in any given performance quarter.  In the event of major outages the repair time shall be
completed within eight (8) hours unless extenuating circumstances are identified to and approved by the COTR, at which time a technical
direction shall be given for an acceptable delay in repair time.  GSA shall be notified of any unplanned outages no more than 30 minutes after
the beginning of the outage.

Required Response Times

|Action Description                                               |Response Time*                                                   |
|Static HTML page access                                          |< 3 seconds                                                      |
|Initial JSP page access                                          |< 10 seconds                                                     |
|JSP page access                                                  |<5 seconds                                                       |
|Course and Application Launch                                    |< 30 seconds                                                     |


*Response time based upon a minimum of a 1.54MBS connection between the client and the Internet backbone.

Qualitative Performance Measures
Deliverables and services will, in general, be reviewed for quality and adherence to the following criteria:
    ▪ Accuracy – Deliverables shall be accurate in presentation, technical content, and adherence to accepted elements of style.
    ▪ Clarity – Deliverables shall be clear and concise; engineering terms shall be used, as appropriate.  Diagrams shall be easy to
      understand, legible, and relevant to the supporting narrative.  Clearly and fully specify acronyms on first use.
    ▪ File Editing – Text and diagrammatic files shall be editable by the Government, unless otherwise approved by the COTR.
    ▪ Format – Deliverables shall conform to format guidance as coordinated or approved by the COTR.
    ▪ Timeliness – Deliverables shall be submitted by due date specified in the PWS or Project Plan.

|Performance Measures                                   |Quality Expectations                                                      |
|a) Completeness                                        |Deliverables will be 100% complete.                                       |
|b) Accuracy                                            |Deliverables will be 100% accurate.                                       |
|c) Effectiveness                                       |All deliverables must contribute to the overall success of the Task.      |
|d) Timeliness                                          |All deliverables are on time and within schedule.                         |
|e) Communication                                       |Communication with client/customers is professional                       |

8.0   DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE

|Deliverable                                       |Draft                                     |Final                                          |
|Project Plan                                      |10 days from contract award               |5 days after GSA review                        |
|LMS platform                                      | Upon award                               |As required                                    |
|Web-room Services                                 | Upon award                               |As required                                    |
|On-line Helpdesk Support                          | Upon award                               |As required                                    |
|Competency Management Tools                       |Upon award                                |As required                                    |
|IT Security verification, per PWS Section 5.0     |3 days from award                         |5 days after GSA review                        |
|Updated Certification and Accreditation           |7 days from award                         |5 days after GSA review                        |
|documentation                                     |                                          |                                               |
|Employee trusted roster                           |7 days from award                         |Every 30 days thereafter (reviewed and updated |
|                                                  |                                          |Monthly)                                       |
|Competency Model (Task 3)                         |120 days from award                       |180 days from award                            |
|CHRIS/eHRI files                                  |NA                                        |Monthly, per PWS Section 4.0, Item B.9         |
|SkillSoft Courses                                 |NA                                        |Per schedule specified in PWS Section 4.0, Item|
|                                                  |                                          |B.11                                           |
|System Backups                                    |NA                                        |Per schedule specified in PWS Section 6.0      |
|Monthly vulnerability scans per PWS Section 5.0   |NA                                        |Monthly, per due date agreed to w/ COTR        |
|Non-Disclosure Agreements, per PWS Section 12.0   |NA                                        |As required                                    |
|(Appendix B)                                      |                                          |                                               |

Inspection and Acceptance:  All deliverables shall be submitted to the COTR who will distribute them accordingly.  The contractor, when directed
by the COTR, shall send information directly to GSA representatives.  GSA will indicate its acceptance of the contractor’s approach, in writing,
within 5 business days unless otherwise designated in the Deliverable Schedule above. GSA will respond to the contractor with its specific
comments on the draft deliverables unless otherwise designated in the Deliverable Schedule above.


9.0   TECHNICAL SUPPORT – ONLINE HELP DESK

Contractor will provide online helpdesk support Monday to Friday 7am to 8pm ET.  Email technical support shall be available 24x7.  Emails should
be responded to within 48 hours.  Telephone calls should be responded to within 12 hours during normal business hours.  The contractor shall
supply Tier 1 helpdesk support.  Pricing information and a detailed description of services provided under the Tier 1 support shall be included
in the price quote. This task is mandatory.

10.0  COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 508

Products and software provided shall comply with Section 508.  Section 508 governs providing accessibility to persons with disabilities.
Software and telecom products are included within this law.  Additional information may be found at: http://www.section508.gov.
All products of this contract shall be accessible to people with disabilities.  Therefore, all reports and deliverables provided in electronic
media, including web-based intranet and internet format shall conform to the relevant accessibility standards references.  The provisions
include:
Part 1194
1194.22 Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications
1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria
1194.41 Information, Documentation and Support

11.0  COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRIVACY ACT

The use of any information that is subject to the Privacy Act will be utilized in full accordance with all rules of conduct as applicable to
Privacy Act Information.  GSA information systems are the property of the Government.  The contractor shall be responsible for adhering to all
aspects of the Privacy Act and is prohibited from removing from the worksite any programs, documentation, or data without the knowledge AND
written approval of the COTR.


 Privacy Act

 The use of any information that is subject to the Privacy Act shall be utilized in full accordance with all   rules of conduct as applicable to
 Privacy Act Information.  GSA information systems are the property of the Government.  The contractor shall be responsible for adhering to  all
 aspects of the Privacy Act and is prohibited from removing from the worksite any programs, documentation, or data  without  the  knowledge  AND
 written approval of the TOM.
      IT Personally Identifiable Information (PII) System Requirements
     • If it is a business requirement to store PII on GSA user workstations or mobile devices including, but not limited to notebook computers,
       USB drives, DC-ROMS, personal digital assistants and Blackberries, PII must be encrypted using a FIPS 140-2 certified encryption module. 
       An employee or contractor shall not physically take out PII  from  contractor  facilities  (including  GSA  managed  programs  housed  at
       contractor facilities under contract), or access remotely (i.e. from locations other than GSA  facilities),  without  written  permission
       from the employee’s supervisor, the data owner, and the IT system authoring official.  This applies to electronic  media  (e.g.  laptops,
       Blackberries, USB drives), paper, and any other media (e.g., CDs/DVDs) that may contain PII.
     • PII shall be stored on network drives and/or in application databases with proper access controls (i.e., User ID/password) and  shall  be
       made available only to those individuals with a valid need to know.
     • Log all computer-readable extracts from databases holding PII and verify each extract including PII has been erased within 90 days or its
       use is still required.
     • Creation of computer-readable data extracts that include PII shall be maintained in an official log  including  creator,  date,  type  of
       information, and user.
     • If PII needs to be transmitted over the Internet, it must be sent using encryption methods defined in Chapter 5, Paragraph 7 of  the  GSA
       IT Security Policy.
     • If PII needs to be emailed, encryption is required.
     • All incidents involving Personally Identifiable Information (PII) must be reported to the GSA OSAISO within one hour of  discovering  the
       incident.  GSA employees and contractors shall report to their Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) and the OSAISO.  If  the  ISSO
       cannot be reached the Information System Security Manager (ISSM) and OSAISO shall be  contracted.   All  incidents  involving  Personally
       Identifiable Information (PII) in electronic or physical form must be reported.  There shall be  no  distinction  between  suspected  and
       confirmed breaches.
     • All incidents involving data breaches which could result in identity theft must be coordinated through the OSAISO and the GSA  Management
       Incident Response Team (MIRT) using the GSA Information Breach Notification Policy (9297.2 HCO) per OMB Memorandum M-07-16, “Safeguarding
       Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information.”
     • GSA managed computers that collect and store PII must adhere to all PII requirements.
     • All GSA employees and contractors must complete security awareness training and Privacy Training 101 annually.
     • All vendor and/or vendor contractors providing LMS support must complete GSA’s security  awareness  training  and  Privacy  Training  101
       annually or equivalent training approved by GSA’s COTR.
     • All vendor and/or vendor contractors providing LMS support must complete GSA’s security  awareness  training  and  Privacy  Training  101
       within 30 days of employment or equivalent training approved by GSA’s COTR.
     • Users of IT resources shall familiarize themselves with any special requirements for accessing, protecting,  and  using  data,  including
       Privacy Act requirements, copyright requirements, and procurement-sensitive data.
     • PII shall not be stored on or accessed from personally owned computers or personally owned mobile devices.  PII shall  only  be  accessed
       from government furnished equipment (GFE) or contractor maintained computers configured in accordance with GSA  IT  security  policy  and
       technical security standards.
     • All GSA contracts and Requests for Proposals (RFP) involving Privacy Act information must adhere to the Federal  Acquisition  Regulations
       (FAR) Privacy Act provisions ( Subparts 24.1 and 24.2 ) and include the specified contract clauses ( Parts 52.224-1 and  52.224-2  ),  as
       appropriate, to ensure that personal information by contractors who work on  GSA-owned  systems  of  records  and  the  system  data  are
       protected as mandated. 
     • Any additional protections which are determined to be necessary by the program and system managers, who are responsible for  the  system,
       must also be included in the contract or RFP.  
     IT Contract Requirements
    The following requirements are specific to GSA IT system contracts.  These requirements shall  be  incorporated  into  all  GSA  IT  support
    contracts that contain personal data under the Privacy Act. 
     • All IT systems accessible from the Internet shall be protected by a firewall and an Intrusion Detection System and have  outbound  server
       filtering (egress) implemented at the firewall.  
     • Two-factor authentication shall be used for anyone who has access to a significant number of Privacy Act data records from the Internet. 


     • Record and/or field level access controls shall be implemented on all databases.
       Security audit logging shall be implemented for all Privacy Act data accesses. 
       Log files shall be reviewed daily. 
     • All Privacy Act data shall be removed from IT systems and or backup media by overwriting the media 3 times using  Secure  Erase  software
       from the University of California San Diego or a software product  from  the  Defense  Security  Service  assessed  products  list.  Upon
       completion of sanitization activity, the activity is to be documented in the System Security Plan.
     •  All IT systems accessible from the Internet shall undergo vulnerability scanning quarterly. 
     • All IT systems shall use at least 128-bit key encryption to transfer data outside the GSA firewall. 
     • IT systems developers shall only have access to Privacy Act data when it is required in the performance of their duties and  compensating
       controls are in place, discussed and monitored. 
     • Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) must be completed for IT systems that are new, under development,  or  undergoing  major  modifications
       which impact Privacy Act data.
     • Whenever PII information is to be collected, contractor is to display a general privacy policy on the web page where privacy  information
       is being collected.
     • Contractor is to notify all users whenever persistent cookies are being used.
     • Contractor is to display a Privacy Act Statement that explains why the information is being collected, the authority to collect  it,  and
       if there are any consequences if information is not provided.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses Incorporated by Reference
     • 52.224-1, Privacy Act Notification  (Apr 1984)
     • 52.224-2, Privacy Act  (Apr 1984)
     • 52.237-3, Continuity of Services  (Jan 1991)
     • Level of Effort Clause
     • HSPD 12
     • Continuity of Services
     • Invoicing
     • General Services Administration Acquisition Manual Subpart 524.1, Protection of Individual Privacy (http://www.acqnet.gov/GSAM/gsam.html)
     • Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Subpart 24.1 Protection  of  Individual  Privacy,  and  Subpart  39.1  Acquisition  of  Information
       Technology, General ( http://www.acqnet.gov/far)
    PII IT Legal and Regulatory Requirements
     • In addition to the requirements of the Privacy Act , which affords individuals the right to privacy of records  that  are  maintained  in
       systems of records by Federal agencies and which incorporates the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of  1988
       (Public Law 100-503) and the Computer  Matching  and  Privacy  Protection  Amendments,  both  of  which  address  electronic  sharing  of
       information, the following laws and regulations establish the basic requirements for Federal IT systems.   
     • The E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347) aims to ensure privacy in the conduct of Federal information activities.   Section  208
       of the law specifically requires agencies to conduct Privacy Impact Assessments for electronic information systems.
     • The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (Title III of Public Law 107-347) (http://csrc.nist.gov/policies/FISMA-final.pdf)
       establishes security practices for Federal computer systems and, among its other system security provisions, requires agencies to conduct
       a periodic assessment of the risk and magnitude of the harm that could result from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure,  disruption,
       modification, or destruction of information and information systems that support the operations and assets of  the  agency;  and  address
       information security throughout the life cycle of each agency information system.
     • OMB Circular A-130 Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources, requires Federal agencies to implement and maintain
       a program to assure that adequate security is  provided  for  all  agency  information  collected,  processed,  transmitted,  stored,  or
       disseminated in general support systems and major applications  and  review  the  security  controls  in  each  system  when  significant
       modifications are made to the system, but at least every three years.
     • M-03-18 OMB Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies Implementation Guidance for the E-Government Act of 2002
   Privacy Act Contracting Mandates
     • The Privacy Act applies to Federal government contractors who operate systems of records containing personal information.
     • When an agency contracts for the design, operation, maintenance, or use of systems containing information covered by the Privacy Act, the
       contractor and its employees are considered employees of  that  agency  and  are  subject  to  the  same  requirements  for  safeguarding
       information as Federal employees. 
     • The contractors and their employees also are subject to civil and criminal sanctions under the Act for any violation that may  occur  due
       to oversight or negligence. 
     • An agency which fails to require that systems of records operated on its behalf under contracts be maintained according to the Act may be
       civilly liable to individuals injured as a consequence of any failure to maintain records in  conformance  with  the  Act.   Officers  or
       employees of the agency may be criminally liable for any violations of the Act. 
   Laws and Regulations
        • The Privacy Act of 1974 Overview
        • Text of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 USC 552a) 
        • Department of Justice guidance on the Privacy Act
     • Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988; and Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Amendments of 1990  
     • E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347, 44 U.S.C. Ch 36); and Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002
        • OMB guidance
12.0  BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION/PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS


  • All Contractor personnel that provide support and/or access to personally identifiable information (PII),  shall,  at  a  minimum,  have  an
    adjudicated Minimum Background Investigation (MBI) or a United States Secret clearance, prior to contract award.  An  equivalent  background
    investigation may be acceptable.  No access shall be given to government computer information systems and government  sensitive  information
    without a background investigation being verified


  • GSA shall sponsor the investigation when deemed necessary.  No access  shall  be  given  to  government  computer  information  systems  and
    government sensitive information without a background investigation being verified or in process.  If results  of  background  investigation
    are not acceptable, then access shall be taken away.


  • Contractor shall provide an initial report of staff that meets the minimum background investigation requirements as stated in  this  section
    within 30 days of option period execution.


  • Contractor shall provide a report of separated staff on a monthly basis, beginning sixty (60) days after execution of the option period.


Employee Non-Disclosure Agreement:
Each individual contractor/subcontractor employee who performs work on this task order is required to sign an Employee Non-Disclosure Agreement
(see Appendix B - Requirement Summary document for details).

The contractor shall submit to the COTR a completed confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement form for each individual
contractor/subcontractor.

The contractor and all contractor/subcontractor employees may have access to sensitive data, proprietary, or confidential business information
of other companies or the Government in the course of performing official duties on this Task Order.  The term “proprietary information” means
any information considered so valuable by its owners that it is held secret by them and their licensees and is not available to the public.

All information that is (1) obtained related to or derived from this task order, and (2) results from or derived from any actual tasks assigned
to contractor employees while participating on this task order is considered proprietary.

The contractor and all contractor/subcontractor employees will not use vendor proprietary information except as necessary to perform this task
order, and shall agree not to disclose such information to third parties, including any employee of the contractor/subcontractor who has not
executed this nondisclosure agreement, or use such information in any manner inconsistent with the purpose for which it was obtained.  Anyone
failing to comply with the agreement may be subject to disciplinary action or termination of employment by the contractor/subcontractor, and
possible administrative, civil, or criminal penalties.

13.0  DATA OWNERSHIP

All data collected in the system is the property of the Federal Government.  All data collected by the system shall be provided by the
Contractor (system provider) as requested during the contract period and at the completion of the contract period.

All documentation, programs, data, products, source code and associated items used during the execution of this task order are to remain the
sole property of the Government.  This information will remain in-house at the primary site and will be returned to the GSA COTR at the
completion of the task order.  The format of the data submitted shall be in electronic formats to include the Microsoft Office suite of
products.


14.0  ADMINISTRATIVE CONSIDERATIONS

A.  Points of Contact

         GSA Contracting Officer (CO):
      Eileen Flanigan, Contracting Officer
      GSA Federal Acquisition Service (GSA/FAS), Mid-Atlantic Region
      20 North 8th Street, 10th Floor
      Philadelphia, PA 19107
      Eileen.Flanigan@gsa.gov
      Tel: 215-446-5816


      GSA Contract Specialist (CS)
      Angela Anderjack
      Telephone:  (215) 446-5817
      Fax: (215) 446-0252
      Email: Angela.Anderjack@gsa.gov


      GSA Information Technology Manager (COTR)
      Junaid A Shah, Information Technology Specialist
      Telephone:  (215) 446-5797
      Fax:  (215) 446-0254
      Email:  junaid.shah@gsa.gov



         GSA Client Representative (CR):
      Rosalind T. Bailey
      1800 F Streets, N.W., Room 1404
      Washington, DC 20405
      202-501-4737

B.  Government Furnished Materials
The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representatives (COTR) will be the point of contact (POC) to furnish copies of any required documentation
for this effort and provide access to principals for system integration.

C.  Period of Performance
The period of performance for the base year shall be from September 1, 2010 through August 31, 2011 with 4 option years as follows:

Option 1 - September 1, 2011 through August 31, 2012
Option 2 - September 1, 2012 through August 31, 2013
Option 3 - September1, 2013 through August 31, 2014
Option 4 - September 1, 2014 through August 31, 2015

 D. Place Of Performance
Work will be performed at the Contractor’s site.

E.  Travel
No travel requirement is anticipated.  Interviews and fact gathering can be conducted in Central Office at 1800 F Streets, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20405 or via telephone, teleconferences or electronic mail.


15.0  CLAUSES

FAR 52-224-1     Privacy Act Notification (Apr 1984)
FAR 52.224-2     Privacy Act (Apr 1984)

FAR 52.204-9     Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sept 2007)

   (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland
Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201.
  (b) The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a
Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system.


FAR 52.237-3     Continuity of Services.

Pursuant to FAR Clause 52.237-3 - Continuity of Services (JAN 1991) (DEVIATION – MAY 2003), the contractor shall comply with the following:


   (a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the ordering activity and must be continued without
   interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the ordering activity or another contractor, may continue them. The
   Contractor agrees to-
      (1)   Furnish phase-in training; and
      (2)   Exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor.
   (b)  The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer's written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after
   this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out
   services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described
   in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer's approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during
   the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency.

   (c)  The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and
   consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor
   to conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a
   mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor.

   (d)  The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after
   contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit)
   under this contract.



 GENERAL SECURITY REQUIREMENT:


 General Provisions


      The contractor shall implement all security controls on this system/application IAW NIST  SP  800-53  R2  for  a  moderate  impact  system
    (specific settings/requirements are further defined in CIO IT Security 06-30 (Managing Enterprise Risk)  Appendix  B  and  GSA  IT  Security
    Policy 2100.1.   The contractor shall document these security controls in a security plan IAW NIST SP 800-18 R2.


       All systems/applications shall be securely configured IAW GSA IT Security Policy 2100.1 and associated  hardening  guides.   All  systems
    shall have a contingency plan (IAW NIST Sp 800-34) that is tested and updated annually IAW  CIO  IT  Security  6-29  (GSA  Contingency  Plan
    testing).


      The contractor system/application must have a valid certification and accreditation (signed off by the Federal  government)  before  going
    into operation and processing GSA information.  The failure to obtain and maintain a valid certification and accreditation will  be  grounds
    for termination of the contract.  The system must have a new C&A conducted (and signed off on by the Federal government) every  3  years  or
    when the system/application has undergone significant security changes.   All NIST 800-53 controls must be tested/assessed  no  longer  than
    every 3 years.


      In addition the contractor will allow GSA’s TOM, COTR and or LMS Information System Security Officer (ISSO) the ability to speak  directly
    with the vendor’s system security manager to resolve security matters and concerns.


      The contractor shall provide continuous monitoring of  the  system/application  IAW  GSA’s  IT  Procedural  Guide:   IT  Security  Program
    Implementation Plan, CIO-ITSecurity-08-39 (latest revision).  The current year’s (i.e. FY09, FY10, etc) version of the annual implementation
    plan shall be used in the applicable year throughout the length of the contract.  The contract shall provide all  deliverables  at  the  due
    dates outlined in the implementation plan.   For those activities that are noted as continuous, the contractor shall provide the data within
    ten (10) working days at the government’s request.


      Contractor shall document security arrangements to include that each party will certify that their respective system is designed, managed,
    and operated in compliance with all relevant federal laws, regulations, and policies.  Before  interconnecting  their  information  systems,
    each organization shall ensure that its respective system is properly certified and accredited in accordance with  federal  C&A  guidelines.
    Detailed information of the C&A guidelines including server hardening guidelines are available from the Contracting  Officer  upon  request,
    after signing a non-disclosure statement.  The contractor shall be required to develop SDLC documentation to support the  smooth  operations
    of the system.  This documentation will be used to support the C&A process.


      The contractor shall certify applications are fully functional and operate correctly as  intended  on  systems  using  the  OPM’s  Federal
    Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC), and GSA’s Enterprise Architecture Information Technology  Reference  Model.  The  standard  installation,
    operation, maintenance, updates,  and/or  patching  of  software  shall  not  alter  the  configuration  settings  from  the  approved  FDCC
    configuration.


      The information technology shall also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the  default  “program  files”  directory  and
    should be able to silently install and uninstall.  Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without
    elevated system administration privileges.




 Contractor Help Desk & Contractor Developer’s PC Desktop Security Requirements


  • All helpdesk/developer desktop support systems used are not to display the name of the last user who signed onto that system


         • Passwords must contain a minimum of twelve (12) characters and must contain a combination of letters, numbers, and special characters
             o Contain characters from three of the following four categories:
             o English uppercase characters (A through Z)
             o English lowercase characters (a through z)
             o Base 10 digits (0 through 9)
             o Non-alphabetic characters (for example, !, $, #, %)


             • Passwords must not be stored in forms (i.e. Windows dialog boxes, web forms, etc).


    • Password  history is to be enforced where passwords are not to be reused within a 24 password cycle


    • All helpdesk/developer desktop support system used must require passwords be changed every 60 days


    • All helpdesk & developer desktop support system used are to automatically lock out users  after  not  more  than  five  (5)  failed  access
      attempts during a 15 minute time period. Accounts lockout duration must remain locked for a minimum  of  15  minutes  for  the  next  login
      prompt.


    • Account lockout duration must remain locked for a minimum of 15 minutes and will have the lockout  counter  automatically  reset  after  15
      minutes.




    •    Any login security questions used must be a single verification question and answer  -  system  will  display  only  the  last  question
      selected by the user (login security questions for self-service)


             • Any email message sent containing PII data must be encrypted.


    • User IDs and passwords must never be distributed together via e-mail, regular mail, interoffice mail, etc

 Application Security


  • No database information is to be held on the server

  • No connections are allowed from the internet to the private network of vendor


  • System is hardened in accordance with GSA guidelines


  • Contractor must use outbound traffic filtering


  • Contractor shall have formal Access Control Policy that meets GSA IT security policy. Policy is to document procedures,  outlining  purpose,
    scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment and organization coordination and provide this document to GSA TOM and Project Manager
    upon request


  • Contractor shall have formal access enforcement and information flow enforcement that meets GSA IT security policy

  • Contractor shall have formal remote access policy that meets GSA IT security policy


  • Contractor shall have formal access control for portable and mobile devices that meets GSA IT security policy


  • Contractor shall have formal physical access control that meets GSA IT security policy


  • Contractor shall practice least privilege and separation of duties with its employees and access to the system that meets  GSA  IT  security
    policy


  • Session IDs should be randomly generated, long, and expire after 20 minutes

  • Web server logs shall be kept and monitored regularly and provided to the GSA TOM , Project Manager upon request


  • User input is to be validated and sanitized and checked for encoded characters (all information from a client browser application is suspect
    of being malicious)


  • All variables in coding shall be initialized before use (from class – some web languages will initialize variable from form or  other  input
    if the initialization is left up to the program – this was a ‘tip’ to help create more secure code)


  • Application and or application support shall not require admin or root permissions on the server or database


  • All hardware and software upgrades (application development and or system software upgraded) are to always be  tested  in  test  environment
    prior to implementation


  • All security incidents and or security violations are to be reported within one hour to the GSA Information System Security Manager assigned
    to be the focal point to ensuring implementation of adequate system security to prevent, detect,  and  recover  from  security  problems  in
    accordance with GSA IT security Policy


      • System architecture is to be three tier which is comprised of :
    1.  Presentation tier – web use interface
    2.  Application tier – code and business logic
    3.  Persistent tier - database



 Application Authentication Security


  • Passwords must contain a minimum of eight (8) characters and must contain a combination of letters, numbers, and special characters


  • Passwords must not be stored in forms (i.e. Windows dialog boxes, web forms, etc)


  • Information systems must be designed to require passwords to be changed every 90 days ( i.e. system shall automatically prompt user to reset
    his/her password after 90 days


  • Information systems must automatically lock out users after not more than ten (10) failed access attempts during a 30 minute time period.
    Accounts must remain locked for a minimum of 30 minutes


  • Accounts lockout duration must remain locked for a minimum of 15 minutes and shall have the lockout counter automatically reset after 15
    minutes


  • LMS system shall provide automated self-service account reset login feature 24 hours, 7 days per week.  This account reset feature shall not
    require any personally identifiable information (PII) to be provided to reset the account. For example, date of birth, Social Security
    Number, or mother’s maiden name
  •  Any login security questions used must be a single verification question and answer  - system shall display only the last question selected
    by the user (login security questions for self-service)


  • Any email message sent containing PII data must be encrypted


  • User IDs and passwords must never be distributed together via e-mail, regular mail, interoffice mail, etc


  • Authentication schemes in lieu of standard passwords may be employed as approved by the Authorizing Official (i.e. biometrics, tokens, smart
    cards, one time passwords)


  • Authentication methods for applications and systems may use the authentication mechanisms provided by the general support system  if  deemed
    appropriate by the Authorizing Official


  • E-commerce and publicly accessible systems must incorporate identification and authentication mechanisms commensurate  with  their  security
    risks and business needs and may differ from the security requirements in subparagraphs (a) – (e) of this paragraph


  • Passwords for mobile storage devices must be a minimum of 8 characters, but do not have to be a combination of letters, numbers, and special
    characters. (I.e. USB drives, Blackberry devices, personal digital assistants)


  • Passwords must not be stored in forms (i.e. Windows dialog boxes, web forms, etc).


  • All default passwords on network devices, databases, operating systems, etc. must be changed


  • Other than default or one time and or temporary use passwords, passwords must never be sent via email, regular mail, or interoffice mail.


  • User IDs and passwords must never be distributed together (i.e. same e-mail, regular mail, interoffice mail, etc.)


  • Users must be authenticated before resetting or distributing a password


  • User IDs shall be unique to each authorized user


  • All workstation and mobile devices shall initiate a session lock after 15 minutes of inactivity. The session lock  shall  remain  in  effect
    until the user reestablishes access using appropriate identification and authentication


  • FIPS 199 Moderate and High impact systems shall automatically terminate temporary and emergency accounts after no more than 90 days
  • FIPS 199 Moderate and High impact systems shall automatically disable inactive accounts after 90 days


  • FIPS 199 Moderate and High impact systems shall automatically terminate a remote  access  connection  and  Internet  accessible  application
    session after 30 minutes of inactivity; 30-60 minutes for non-interactive users; long running  batch  jobs  and  other  operations  are  not
    subject to this time limit


  • The Contractor shall maintain and operate the technical infrastructure and comply with all current Federal and GSA security  guidelines  and
    the current Systems Security Plan.  The Contractor shall:


     o Ensure that Web sites and  data  are  secured  behind  appropriate  perimeter  defense  technologies  and  that  these  technologies  are
       programmatically monitored for anomalous traffic  behavior(s). Contractor  shall  immediately  report  any  unauthorized  access  to  the
       Information System Security Officer (ISSO)

     o Ensure that PII (Personally Identifiable Information, defined by FOIA) data is never allowed on any system with Internet access

     o Conducts (or causes completion of) a FISMA-conforming C&A process of the System prior to the System being  placed  into  production.  C&A
       process complies with all GSA requirements, FIPS mandates, and NIST guidance.  SSP produced for C&A includes provisions listed in NIST SP
       800-18 (Guide for developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems)

  • The contractor shall employ Secure Socket Layer technology consistent with the approved System Security Plan.  At a minimum, SSL  is  to  be
    enabled where sensitive information is captured or displayed, and on the system login page.  The contractor is responsible for:


      o Providing a Secure Socket Layer Certificate;
      o The certificate’s renewal and cost of renewal;
                   o Verifying that all system components can function correctly while running in an SSL environment.

    1. Certification and Accreditation/Monitoring


  • Products, services, hosting facilities, and service providers are required to undergo a security certification and accreditation process  as
    described by NIST Special Publication 800-37. Additional information may be found at: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/index.html.




  • The contractor shall allow GSA employees (or GSA designated third party  contractors)  to  conduct  certification  and  accreditation  (C&A)
    activities and quarterly continuous monitoring activities to include control reviews IAW NIST 800-53 and CIO  IT  Security  06-30  including
    vulnerability scanning, web application scanning, and database scanning of applicable systems that support the  processing,  transportation,
    storage, or security of GSA information.  This includes the general  support  system  infrastructure.  The  contractor  is  responsible  for
    mitigating all security risks the government or GSA designated third party contractors find  during  these  C&A  and  continuous  monitoring
    activities.  All high risk vulnerabilities must be mitigated within 30 days and all moderate risk vulnerabilities must be  mitigated  within
    90 days.  Risk rating of vulnerabilities shall be determined by the government.


  • The contractor system/application must have a valid certification and accreditation (signed off by the Federal government) before going into
    operation and processing GSA information.  The failure to obtain and maintain a valid certification and accreditation shall be  grounds  for
    termination of the contract.  The system must have a new C&A conducted (and signed off on by the Federal government) every 3 years  or  when
    the system/application has undergone significant security changes.   All NIST 800-53 controls must be tested/assessed no longer than every 3
    years.


  • The contractor shall perform a self assessment in accordance with NIST 800-26 to demonstrate compliance  with  IT  security  controls.   GSA
    shall assess the security controls through a joint scan of the environment.  The contractor shall remediate weaknesses  and  vulnerabilities
    found. As directed, the contractor shall submit documentation demonstrating remediation actions taken to resolve identified  weaknesses  and
    vulnerabilities




  • The contractor shall provide all Certification and Accreditation (C&A)-related documentation identified below  to  ensure  that  appropriate
    combinations of security measures are identified and implemented to counter relevant threats and vulnerabilities to the system

  • Associated Deliverables:

        1) Completed Risk Assessment


        2) Completed System Security Plan


        3) Completed Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M); for all severe, major and high vulnerabilities


        4) Completed Security Assessment Report


    5) Completion of a documented System Security Certification and Accreditation package that would support the accreditation of the System for
       continued operation.
         o 800-53 control objectives are fully detailed in the SSP with full explanations of how they are met
         o Interconnection agreements are included in the SSP


        6) Completion of a documented Contingency Plan.  Contingency Plan must include a business Impact
      Assessment (BIA)


        7) Completion of a documented Configuration Management Plan


        8) Privacy Impact Assessment


        9) Business Impact Assessment (BIA) (see Contingency Plan above)


       10) Provide a detailed description of all hardware and software system used and is to include a network
           diagram showing all interconnected components used and all assigned IP addresses.

  • On being granted approval to process production data, the contractor shall conduct monthly scans of the
      system and submit logs to the GSA ISSO.


  • The contractor shall comply with GSA and Federal government administrative, physical, and technical security controls to ensure all  of  the
    Government's security requirements are met.  In addition, all contractor personnel must  adhere  to  the  GSA  Public  Buildings  Rules  and
    Regulations.


16. INVOICES

The Period of Performance (POP) for each invoice shall be for one (1) calendar month. The contractor shall submit only one (1) invoice per  month
per order/contract.  The appropriate GSA office will receive the invoice by the twenty-fifth (25th) calendar day of the month after either:

    • The end of the invoiced month (for services) or the end of the month in which the products (commodities) or outputs (fixed-priced services)
      were delivered and accepted by the Government.


    • For Firm Fixed Price orders: Each invoice shall show the monthly price (year's price divided by 12 = 12  months),  as  well  as  the  other
      applicable information as described below. Invoices shall be approved/certified by the customer before sent to GSA

The contractor shall submit all required documentation (unless exempted by the contract or order) as follows:

For Travel: Submit the traveler's name, dates of travel, location of travel, and dollar amount of travel.
For ODCs:  Submit a description of the ODC, quantity, unit price and total price of each ODC. (if applicable)

Note: The Government reserves the right to audit, thus; the contractor shall keep on file all backup support documentation for travel and ODCs.

Posting Acceptance Documents:  Invoices shall initially be  submitted  monthly  through  GSA’s  electronic  Web-Based  Order  Processing  System,
currently ITSS, (IT-Solutions automated system- http://it-solutions.gsa.gov) to allow the client  and  GSA  COTR  to  electronically  accept  and
certify services received by the Client.  Included with the invoice will be all back-up documentation required  such  as,  but  not  limited  to,
travel authorizations and training authorizations (including invoices for such).

Receiving Agency’s Acceptance:  The receiving agency has the following options in accepting and certifying services;
Electronically:  The client agency may accept and certify services  electronically  via  GSA’s  electronic  Web-Based  Order  Processing  System,
currently ITSS, by accepting the Acceptance Document generated by the contractor.  Electronic acceptance of the invoice by the CR  is  considered
concurrence and acceptance of services.  NOTE:  The Government’s preference is that receiving agency’s acceptance is conducted electronically.
On Paper Copy:  The client agency may accept and certify services by providing written acceptance with the signature  of  the  authorized  client
representative and the date of acceptance.
Electronic and/or written acceptance of the invoice by the CR is considered concurrence and acceptance of services.  Regardless,  of  the  method
of acceptance the contractor shall seek acceptance  and  electronically  post  the  acceptance  document  in  GSA’s  electronic  Web-based  Order
Processing System, currently ITSS.  (Written acceptances will be posted as an attachment along with any other supporting  documentation.)   After
acceptance of the invoice by the CR, the Contractor shall submit a proper invoice  to  GSA  Finance  not  later  than  five  (5)  workdays  after
acceptance by the Government of the product, service, and/or cost item.

Note:  The acceptance of the authorized agency customer representative is REQUIRED prior to the approval of payment for any  invoiced  submitted.
Although this acceptance may occur in two ways, electronically or in paper copy, it at least shall be obtained prior to the approval of  payment.
 In order to expedite payment, it is strongly recommended that the contractor continue to include the receiving agency’s  WRITTEN  acceptance  of
all the services or products delivered, with signature of the authorized agency customer representative and the date of acceptance,  as  part  of
the submission documentation.

Note: If any invoice is received without the required documentation and, (A) the customer's signed  written  acceptance  OR  (B)  the  customer’s
electronic acceptance, the invoice shall be rejected in whole or in part as determined by the Government.

Posting Invoice Documents: Contractors shall submit invoices to GSA Finance for payment, after acceptance has been processed in GSA’s  electronic
Web-Based Order Processing System, currently ITSS.  The contractor has the option  of  posting  the  invoice  on  GSA’s  Kansas  City  web  site,
http://www.finance.gsa.gov/defaultexternal.asp, or mail to the address shown on BLOCK 24 of the GSA FORM 300.  NOTE:   Only  use  one  method  of
submission, web site or regular U.S. mail, but not both.

U.S. Mailing Address:
GSA BCEB
P.O. Box 219434
Kansas City, MO 64121-6434



Content of Invoice: The Contractor’s invoice will be submitted monthly for work performed the prior month.  The Contractor may invoice  only  for
the hours, travel and unique services ordered by GSA and actually used in direct support of the client  representative’s  project.   The  invoice
shall be submitted on official letterhead and shall include the following information at a minimum.
   1. GSA Task Order Number
   2. Task Order ACT Number
   3. Remittance Address
   4. Period of Performance for Billing Period
   5. Point of Contact and Phone Number
   6. Invoice Amount
   7. Skill Level Name and Associated Skill Level Number
   8. Actual Hours Worked During the Billing Period
   9. Travel Itemized by Individual and Trip (if applicable)
  10. Training Itemized by Individual and Purpose (if applicable)
  11. Support Items listed by Specific Item and Amount (if applicable)

Final Invoice:  Invoices for final payment must be so identified and submitted within 60 days from task completion.  After  this  submission,  no
further charges are to be billed.  A copy of the written client agency acceptance of task completion must be attached  to  final  invoices.   The
Contractor shall request from GSA an extension for final invoices that may exceed the 60-day time frame.

The Government reserves the right to require certification by a GSA COTR before payment is processed, if necessary.

Close-out Procedures.
General:  The Contractor shall submit a final invoice within sixty (60) calendar days after the end of the Performance Period.  After  the  final
invoice has been paid, the Contractor shall furnish a completed and signed Release of Claims (GSA Form 1142) to the  Contracting  Officer.   This
release of claims is due within fifteen (15) calendar days of final payment.

Payment Information.
The following procedures, if followed, will ensure timely payment of invoices.

Invoice submission is a two-step process:
1.  Create an Invoice Acceptance Document in IT-Solutions Shop to obtain Client and GSA Acceptance.
2.   Submit the Invoice to GSA Finance either electronically (preferred method), or mail the original  invoice  to  the  address  stated  in  the
purchase order.

A. To submit your invoice to ITSS for Client Acceptance, follow these steps:

      1. Log onto the Internet URL http://web1.itss.gsa.gov.
      2. Log into ITSS using your assigned username and password.
      3. Once logged in, click on “Create Support Documents”.
      4. Once in the Create Support Documents field, you will see a list of awarded task order numbers and a pull down menu that  reads  <<Select
      Support Document>>.  Select the appropriate task order number by highlighting it, then click on the  pull  down  menu;  select  “Acceptance
      Information” and click on the “Create” icon.
      5. You are now on the page where you will enter the delivery date and invoice number—do not use special characters in  the  invoice  number
      and be sure to use exactly the same invoice number and value for GSA Finance.  You have the opportunity to  send  comments  to  the  client
      (receiving activity) in the detailed comments block.  You must attach an electronic copy of your invoice.  Click on the thumbtack  “Attach”
      icon to bring up the attachments page.  When you are done attaching the invoice, click on the “Submit” button at the bottom of the page  to
      complete the process.

When the acceptance document is submitted, emails requesting acceptance are automatically sent to both the Client and  the  GSA  Project  Manager
(PM).  They will accept, partially accept, or reject the invoice, normally with explanatory comments.  The Client will also indicate  the  amount
approved for payment.  The system will automatically notify you, the Vendor, of acceptance or rejection of the invoice.

If you need assistance or have any questions regarding the acceptance and approval process, please contact the ITSS Help Desk at  the  toll  free
number 1-877-243-2889.  Be sure to have the order number or act number available.

B. AFTER (and only AFTER) you receive acceptance through ITSS, you must then submit your invoice to the GSA Finance  Office  for  payment,  using
ONE of the following two methods.  DO NOT DO BOTH.

Method 1 – Electronic Submission (This is the preferred method)
If you do not have a password, go to www.finance.gsa.gov and click on “Get a Password for Payment Searches” under “Quick References” on the  left
side of the screen.  Fill out the form and submit.  You should receive your password within 24 hours.

      1. Log into the GSA Finance website at www.finance.gsa.gov.
      2. Click on “Click here to Login”.
      3. Enter your password* and click “login
           Do not use the “Enter key”.  Use the mouse to click on “Login.”
           Using “cut and paste” may not work; you may need to type your password, which is not case sensitive.
      4. Select “submit invoice”.
      5. Select “All POs”.
      6. Find the ACT# or PDN# you are invoicing against and select it.  A form will appear that you fill in with your invoice  information.   Be
      sure to use the same invoice number (do not use special characters) and value which you used in the ITSS Acceptance document.  If  you  are
      resubmitting a rejected invoice, add an “R” or an “A” to the end of the original invoice number or use an entirely new invoice number.  The
      GSA system will not let you use an invoice number you have used before.
      7. Fill in the information requested.  All fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required fields.
      8. When complete, click “continue”.  If you have made any errors, you  will  receive  an  error  message.   (Worth  noting:  dates  are  in
      mm/dd/yyyy format, money amounts have no $ signs or commas, only a decimal point.)  Correct the error and click “continue” again.
      9. You will have an opportunity to upload any backup material as attachments after clicking “submit” on the next screen.
      10. Add any invoice backup material as attachment.

If you have questions please e-mail FW-PaymentSearch.finance@gsa.gov or call the Customer Support Desk at 1-816-926-7287.  Anyone there  will  be
able to assist you.

Method 2 – Hard Copy Submission

      1. Return to the ITSS “Acceptance Information” page (per the above instructions) and print the page showing the client’s acceptance.
      2. Mail your original invoice (on official company letterhead), accompanied by the client’s acceptance page, to the GSA Finance  Office  in
      Ft Worth, at the address shown in Block 24 (below) of this document.  Please ensure that the GSA Delivery Order Number and the  ACT  Number
      (found in Blocks 2 and 4 of this GSA Form 300, respectively) are clearly shown on your invoice.

C.  To check the payment status of an invoice, go to www.finance.gsa.gov
Click on “Click here to Login”
Enter your password and click “login.  DO NOT USE THE ENTER KEY.  USE THE MOUSE TO CLICK ON “LOGIN”.  Please note that using “cut and paste”  may
not work.  You may need to type your password, which is not case sensitive.
      1.  Select “Payment Search”.  This shows paid invoices.
      2.  If your invoice is not there, select “View Invoice”, then “all unpaid invoices”.  (You  may  also  select  "search  unpaid"  and  enter
      specific criteria to narrow the search.)
      3.  If your invoice is not there, back up one page and select “all rejected invoices” under “View Invoice”.  (You may also  select  "search
      rejected" and enter specific criteria to narrow the search.)
Remember that once an invoice shows in the “rejected invoices” section, it will always be there.  They  do  not  disappear  when  an  invoice  is
resubmitted and paid.  Your invoice could appear in this section multiple times if rejected multiple times.

If you have questions please e-mail FW-PaymentSearch.finance@gsa.gov or call the Customer Support Desk at 817 978 2408.   Anyone  there  will  be
able to assist you.



   REFERENCES:


        • Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 also knows as the Information Management Reform Act, February 10, 1996.
        • Presidential Decision Directive (PDD) 63, Protecting America’s Critical Infrastructure, May 22, 1998.
        • Public Law 107-347, “Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002,” (FISMA);
        • Public Law 105-277, “Government Paperwork Elimination Act” (44 USC 3504);
        • Public Law 104-231, “Freedom of Information Act” (5 USC 552) as amended by "Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996";
        • Public Law 104-13, “Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995” (44 USC 35);
        • Public Law 99-474, “Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986” (18 USC 1030);
        • Public Law 97-255, “Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of 1982”;
        • Public Law 93-574, “Privacy Act of 1974” (5 USC 552a);
        • OMB Circular No. A-123, Management Accountability and Control;
        • OMB Circular No. A-127, Financial Management Systems;
        • OMB Circular No. A-130 (revised), Information Resources Management, Appendix III, “Security of Federal Information Resources;
        • NIST Special Publication 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information Technology Systems;
        • GSA Order, CIO 2160.2, GSA Electronic Messaging Policy, September 24, 1998.
        • GSA Suitability and GSA Personnel Security Handbook, ADMP 9732.1C.
        • GSA Internal Physical Security, PMS P 5930.1.
        • GSA Records Maintenance and Disposition System Order (OAD P 1820.2A)
        • P.L. 107-347 Title III, Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002
        • OPM regulations for Delegated Examining Units, DEU Handbook
        • OPM Handbook X-118C, Job Qualification System for Trades and Labor Occupations
        • OPM Operating Manual, Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.
        • United States Code of Federal Regulations (CFR’s), Title 5, Administrative Personnel
        • EEOC Management Directive 715


Enterprise Architecture Guidance

      Internal Guidance
      GSA Technology Standards (the "Bricks")
      GSA Order CIO 2110.01 

CPIC 2135.2A 
       
      External Guidance
      OMB Circular A-11
      OMB Circular A-130
      Federal Transition Framework
      FEA Practice Guide
      Architecture Principles for the Federal Government
E-Gov Initiatives – Federal Enterprise Architecture
    • Federal Enterprise Architecture
    • Enterprise Architecture
    • General Services Administration Enterprise Architecture Baseline Report
    • Target GSA Financial Management Architecture
    • Enterprise Architecture Configuration Management Procedural Guide
    • GSA OMB 300 Guide for EA

E-Gov Initiatives – E-Authentication
    • E-Authentication – http://cio.gov/eauthentication/
    • E-Authentication Architecture Preview – http://cio.gov/eauthentication/presentations/esc_architecture.pdf
    • E-Authentication Handbook for Federal Government Agencies – http://cio.gov/eauthentication/documents/GOVhandbook.pdf
    • Technical Approach for the Authentication Service Component – http://cio.gov/eauthentication/documents/TechApproach.pdf
    • E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies – http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy04/m04-04.pdf

E-Gov Initiatives
   NIST Special Publication 800-63 – Electronic Authentication Guideline – http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-63/SP800-63v6_3_3.pdf
   E-Government Strategy – http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/egov/2003egov_strat.pdf
   Transition Planning for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) -http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-22.pdf

NIST Publications
    NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-44, Guidelines on Securing Public Web Servers – http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-44/sp800-
       44.pdf


Section 508 Standards:
     Applicable Standards:
     Section 1194.21: Software Applications and Operating Systems _________.
     Section 1194.22: Web-based Internet Information and Applications ______.
     Section 1194.23: Telecommunications Products _______________.
     Section 1194.25: Self-Contained, Closed Products _____________.
     Section 1194.26: Desktop and Portable Computers _____________.
     Section 1194.31: Functional Performance Criteria ______________.


     36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.access-
     board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm


CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.247-34               |F.O.B. Destination                                                        |NOV 1991         |                       |
|252.204-7004 Alt A      |Central Contractor Registration (52.204-7) Alternate A                    |APR 2008         |                       |

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.212-1  Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items.
As prescribed in 12.301(b)(1), insert the following provision:

Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (June 2008)
(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard
for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which
submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in
this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum,
offers must show—
      (1) The solicitation number;
      (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers;
      (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror;
      (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the
solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary;
      (5) Terms of any express warranty;
      (6) Price and any discount terms;
      (7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address;
      (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and
certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically);
      (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments;
      (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar
items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and
      (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and
provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions
of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.
(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for
receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.
(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of
offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the
sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing.
(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for
satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.
(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers.
      (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office
designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is
4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due.
      (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after
the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting
Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and—
           (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point
      of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or
           (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers
      and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or
           (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received.
                 (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will
           be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.
      (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation
on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government
personnel.
      (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government
office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment
of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended
to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.
      (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response
to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received
at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile
offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers,
the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer.
(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions
with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However,
the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may
reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor
irregularities in offers received.
(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific
limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government
reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror
specifies otherwise in the offer.
(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. 
      (1 )(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of
specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to—
GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407
Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978.
           (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a
      single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by
      submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee.
      (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites:
           (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil).
           (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch).
           (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com).
      (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by—
           (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard);
           (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or
           (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179,
      Facsimile (215) 697-1462.
      (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or
maintenance.
(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation
requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its
name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the
offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to
establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same
concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United
States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside
the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a
Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.
(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges
the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment
of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the
Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain
information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-
5757.
(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if
applicable:
      (1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer.
      (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information
on the debriefed offeror.
      (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.
      (4) A summary of the rationale for award;
      (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror.
      (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the
solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

52.212-2  Evaluation—Commercial Items.

The technical and price evaluation factors are included in the RFQ document as separate document.


52.212-3  Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items.

  As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), insert the following provision:

                                      Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items (Aug 2009)

  AN OFFEROR SHALL COMPLETE ONLY PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS PROVISION IF THE OFFEROR HAS COMPLETED THE ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
ELECTRONICALLY AT HTTP://ORCA.BPN.GOV. IF AN OFFEROR HAS NOT COMPLETED THE ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS ELECTRONICALLY AT THE ORCA
WEBSITE, THE OFFEROR SHALL COMPLETE ONLY PARAGRAPHS (C) THROUGH (M) OF THIS PROVISION.
  (a) Definitions. As used in this provision—
  “Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS
code designated.
  “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—
    (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not
offer himself voluntarily; or
    (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.
  “Inverted domestic corporation” means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b),
i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated
in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in
6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c).
  “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—
    (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;
    (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;
    (3) FSG 88, Live Animals;
    (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;
    (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;
    (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;
    (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;
    (8) FSC 9610, Ores;
    (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and
    (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
  “Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials
into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not
the place of manufacture.
  “Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities,
oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of
2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2
of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—
    (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;
    (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;
    (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
    (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;
    (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
    (6) Have been voluntarily suspended.
  “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
    (1) Means a small business concern—
      (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not
less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
      (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
    (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in
38 U.S.C. 101(16).
  “Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size
standards in this solicitation.
  “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
    (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
  “Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by
one or more women.
  “Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
of which is owned by one or more women; and
    (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
  (b)
    (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically
change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website.
    (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After
reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently
posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12
months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code
referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for
paragraphs ______________.
  [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this
solicitation only, if any.
  These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the
date of this offer.
  Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
certifications posted on ORCA.]
  (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying
areas. Check all that apply.
    (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a small business concern.
    (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
    (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business
concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a service-disabled veteran-
owned small business concern.
    (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ο is, ο is not a small disadvantaged business concern as
defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
    (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents that it ο is, ο is not a women-owned small business concern.
  Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
    (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did
not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ο is a women-owned
business concern.
    (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor
surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more
than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________
    (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small
Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the
size standards for this solicitation.]
      (i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated
industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not an emerging small business.
      (ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated
industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows:
        (A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is
expressed in terms of number of employees); or
        (B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size
standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts).
  (Check one of the following):
|Number of Employees             |Average Annual Gross Revenues                  |
|__ 50 or fewer                  |__ $1 million or less                          |
|__ 51–100                       |__ $1,000,001–$2 million                       |
|__ 101–250                      |__ $2,000,001–$3.5 million                     |
|__ 251–500                      |__ $3,500,001–$5 million                       |
|__ 501–750                      |__ $5,000,001–$10 million                      |
|__ 751–1,000                    |__ $10,000,001–$17 million                     |
|__ Over 1,000                   |__ Over $17 million                            |


    (9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged
Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror
desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.]
      (i) General. The offeror represents that either—
        (A) It ο is, ο is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the
date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration
(PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is
owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not
exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or
        (B) It ο has, ο has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as
a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no
material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.
      (ii) ο Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of
its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in
paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The
offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]
    (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that—
      (i) It ο is, ο is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small
Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone
employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and
      (ii) It ο is, ο is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in
paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone
representation.
  (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246—
    (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It ο has, ο has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation;
and
      (ii) It ο has, ο has not filed all required compliance reports.
    (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It ο has developed and has on file, ο has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs
required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or
      (ii) It ο has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of
the Secretary of Labor.
  (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant
contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to
this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the
name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
  (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is
included in this solicitation.)
    (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and
that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside
the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as
domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of
“domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,”
“foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”
    (2) Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.          |Country of Origin           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
  (g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free
Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a
domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced,
or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-
shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade
Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American
Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.”
      (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan,
Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade
Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.          |Country of Origin           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this
provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall
list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an
end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”
  Other Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.          |Country of Origin           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
    (2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled
  “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian End Products:
|Line Item No.                                                    |
|_______________________________________                          |
|_______________________________________                          |
|_______________________________________                          |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of
  this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.          |Country of Origin           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or
designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”
      (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.
  Other End Products:
|Line Item No.          |Country of Origin           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |
|______________         |_________________           |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO
GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American
Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer
determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the
solicitation.
  (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
principals—
    (1) ο Are, ο are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal
agency;
    (2) ο Have, ο have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for:
commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government
contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement,
theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or
receiving stolen property;
    (3) ο Are, ο are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of
these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and
    (4) ο Have, ο have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that
exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
      (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
        (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally
determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is
not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
        (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full
payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
      (ii) Examples.
        (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review
of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review,
this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
        (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice
under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal
to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the
underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is
not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised
all judicial appeal rights.
        (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in
full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.
        (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under
11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
  (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in
paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]
    (1) Listed end products.
|Listed End Product              |Listed Countries of Origin           |
|___________________             |___________________                  |
|___________________             |___________________                  |


    (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision,
then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]
      [  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured
in the corresponding country as listed for that product.
      [  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in
the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or
indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those
efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.
  (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly—
    (1) ο In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds
the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or
    (2) ο Outside the United States.
  (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.)
[The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]
    [  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ο does ο does not certify
that—
      (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or
traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of
normal business operations;
      (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and
      (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as
that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.
    [  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ο does ο does not certify that—
      (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or
subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;

      (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(d)(2)(iii));
      (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly
average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract
period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
      (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used
for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.
    (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—
      (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service
Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and
      (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.
  (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)
    (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection
requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued
by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
    (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the
Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN
provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.
    (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
      ο€ TIN: ________________________________.
      ο€ TIN has been applied for.
      ο€ TIN is not required because:
      ο€ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United
States;
      ο€ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
      ο€ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
    (4) Type of organization.
      ο€ Sole proprietorship;
      ο€ Partnership;
      ο€ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
      ο€ Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
      ο€ Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
      ο€ Foreign government;
      ο€ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
      ο€ Other ________________________________.
    (5) Common parent.
      ο€ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
      ο€ Name and TIN of common parent:
        Name ________________________________.
        TIN _________________________________.
  (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted
business operations in Sudan.
  (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations.
    (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal
Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874 (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an
inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR 9.108).
    (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a
subsidiary of one.


52.212-4  Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items.

  As prescribed in 12.301(b)(3), insert the following clause:

                                            Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Mar 2009)

  (A) INSPECTION/ACCEPTANCE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ONLY TENDER FOR ACCEPTANCE THOSE ITEMS THAT CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CONTRACT. THE
GOVERNMENT RESERVES THE RIGHT TO INSPECT OR TEST ANY SUPPLIES OR SERVICES THAT HAVE BEEN TENDERED FOR ACCEPTANCE. THE GOVERNMENT MAY REQUIRE
REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SUPPLIES OR REPERFORMANCE OF NONCONFORMING SERVICES AT NO INCREASE IN CONTRACT PRICE. IF
REPAIR/REPLACEMENT OR REPERFORMANCE WILL NOT CORRECT THE DEFECTS OR IS NOT POSSIBLE, THE GOVERNMENT MAY SEEK AN EQUITABLE PRICE REDUCTION OR
ADEQUATE CONSIDERATION FOR ACCEPTANCE OF NONCONFORMING SUPPLIES OR SERVICES. THE GOVERNMENT MUST EXERCISE ITS POST-ACCEPTANCE RIGHTS—
    (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and
    (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.
  (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a
bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act
(31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not
assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.
  (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.
  (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this
contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be
a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor
shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.
  (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.
  (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control
of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign
or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable
delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly
give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.
  (g) Invoice.
    (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the
contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include—
      (i) Name and address of the Contractor;
      (ii) Invoice date and number;
      (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;
      (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;
      (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of
lading;
      (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;
      (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;
      (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and
      (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

      (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.
        (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
        (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor
shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33,
Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central
Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures.
        (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.
    (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt
payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315.
  (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs,
for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or
copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.
  (i) Payment.—
    (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set
forth in this contract.
    (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment
regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315.
    (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.
    (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose
of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified
payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.
    (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise
overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall—
      (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the—
        (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment);
        (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable;
        (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and
        (D) Contractor point of contact.
      (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.
    (6) Interest.
      (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due
until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury
as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount
becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until
the amount is paid.
      (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract.
      (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if—
        (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days;
        (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand
for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or
        (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2).
      (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the
same due date as the original demand for payment.
      (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates:
        (A) The date fixed under this contract.
        (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination.
      (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on—
        (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor;
        (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit
against the contract debt; or
        (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor.
      (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.
  (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract
shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:
    (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or
    (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.
  (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.
  (l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its
sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and
all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the
contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor
shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give
the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which
reasonably could have been avoided.
  (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the
Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with
adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any
amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided
by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination
for convenience.
  (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon
acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.
  (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular
purpose described in this contract.
  (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for
consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.
  (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations
applicable to its performance under this contract.
  (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use
of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq.,
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to
whistleblower protections; Section 1553 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 relating to whistleblower protections for
contracts funded under that Act; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity.
  (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
    (1) The schedule of supplies/services.
    (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of
this clause.
    (3) The clause at 52.212-5.
    (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software.
    (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation.
    (6) Other paragraphs of this clause.
    (7) The Standard Form 1449.
    (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments.
    (9) The specification.
  (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR).
    (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any
contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance
on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review
and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is
current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute
for a properly executed contractual document.
    (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the
contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation
and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business
day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and
(C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the
notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name.
      (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at
paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that
shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning
of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract.
    (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an
assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR
database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient
other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT
clause of this contract.
    (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at
http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.


52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items.

  As prescribed in 12.301(b)(4), insert the following clause:

                   Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (Apr 2010)

  (A) THE CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) CLAUSES, WHICH ARE INCORPORATED IN THIS CONTRACT BY
REFERENCE, TO IMPLEMENT PROVISIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS:
    (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
    (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
    (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).
  (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

                                                   [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]

    _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and
10 U.S.C. 2402).
    __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
    __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-
5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
    __ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5).
    __ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (7) [Reserved]
    __ (8)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
    __ (9)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
    _X_ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
    _X_ (11)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
    __ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
    _X_ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
    __ (14)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
    __ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355,
section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102,
and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
    _X_ (18)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
    _X_ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).
    __ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Aug 2009) (E.O. 13126).
    _X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
    _X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
    _X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    _X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
    _X_ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    __ (26) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)
    __ (27)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
      __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-
shelf items.)
    _X_ (28) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
    _X_ (29)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
    _X_ (30) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
    __ (31)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C.
2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
    __ (32) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
    _X_ (33) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
    __ (34) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (35) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    _X_ (36) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    __ (37) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    _X_ (38) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (39) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (40) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    _X_ (41) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
    __ (42)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
  (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
  [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
    __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009)
(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).
    __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
    __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).
    __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
  (d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records—Negotiation.
    (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right
to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
    (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to
  appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made
available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
    (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
  (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—
      (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
      (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction
of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.
      (iii) [Reserved]
      (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
      (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
      (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
      (vii) [Reserved]
      (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
      (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
      (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).
      (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance
with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
      (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow
down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
    (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary
to satisfy its contractual obligations.

                                                                 (End of clause)


52.217-8     OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 60 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 60 Days

(End of clause)


52.217-9     OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 Days); provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60  days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months.

(End of clause)


52.219-28    POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (APR 2009)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

Long-term contract means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options. However, the term does not include contracts that
exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the
clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority.

Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size
standard in paragraph (c) of this clause. Such a concern is ``not dominant in its field of operation'' when it does not exercise a controlling
or major influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In
determining whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of
employees, financial resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials, processes, patents, license agreements,
facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity.

(b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall represent its size
status according to paragraph (e) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (g) of this clause, upon the occurrence of any of the following:

(1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the
novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

(2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30 days after modification of the contract to
include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

(3) For long-term contracts--

(i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and

(ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any option thereafter.

(c) The Contractor shall represent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this representation that
corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to this contract. The small business size standard
corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at http://www.sba.gov/services/contractingopportunities/sizestandardstopics/.

(d) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a
construction or service contract, is 500 employees.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation required by paragraph (b) of this clause by
validating or updating all its representations in the Online Representations and Certifications Application and its data in the Central
Contractor Registration, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting
office in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the
date of the validation or update.

(f) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is
not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause.

(g) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in ORCA, or does not have a representation in ORCA for the NAICS code
applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following representation and submit it to the contracting office, along
with the contract number and the date on which the representation was completed:

The Contractor represents that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a small business concern under NAICS Code      - assigned to contract number      .

(Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title).

(End of clause)


52.242-13      Bankruptcy (JUL 1995)

In the event the Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether voluntary or involuntary, the Contractor agrees to furnish,
by certified mail or electronic commerce method authorized by the contract, written notification of the bankruptcy to the Contracting Officer
responsible for administering the contract.  This notification shall be furnished within five days of the initiation of the proceedings relating
to bankruptcy filing.  This notification shall include the date on which the bankruptcy petition was filed, the identity of the court in which
the bankruptcy petition was filed, and a listing of Government contract numbers and contracting offices for all Government contracts against
which final payment has not been made.  This obligation remains in effect until final payment under this contract.

(End of clause)

52.252-2      CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es):

http://www.arnet.gov/far
http://farsite.hill.af.mil
www.acq.osd.mil/dp/dars/dfars.html

(End of clause)



-----------------------
X

EMERGING SB

SVC-DISABLED VET-OWNED SB

8(A)

X

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN

YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION

OFFER DATED

.

SEE SCHEDULE

SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

(BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE

COPIES

0







EMAIL



TEL



ARE NOT ATTACHED

ARE

ADDENDA

27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.

ARE NOT ATTACHED

R3104309

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, AND 30




PAGE 1 OF 56

% FOR

SET ASIDE:

HUBZONE SB

SB

SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS

TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS

CONTINUED ON PAGE 2.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES

19. ITEM NO.

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1. 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3. 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.

31a.UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

30c. DATE SIGNED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER

(TYPE OR PRINT)

4. ORDER NUMBER

3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE

2. CONTRACT NO.

a. NAME
Eileen S. Flanigan

    INFORMATION CALL:

7. FOR SOLICITATION



-







4

16. ADMINISTERED BY

W9017H

CODE

15. DELIVER TO

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK











17a.CONTRACTOR/

CODE

FACILITY

9. ISSUED BY

SIZE STD:





TEL.

091U4

BELOW IS CHECKED

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT

SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER

OFFEROR

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TEL:

NAICS:

FAX:

UNRESTRICTED

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

CODE









21. QUANTITY

24. AMOUNT

23. UNIT PRICE

22. UNIT

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ARE

ADDENDA

31c. DATE SIGNED

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

28-May-2009

(TYPE OR PRINT)

FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

Prescribed by GSA

STANDARD FORM 1449   (REV 3/2005)

 PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE
6/25/2010

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME
7/14/2010 3PM EDT

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER
215-446-5816

SEE ITEM 9

CODE

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER

13b. RATING

(No Collect Calls)

HQ0302

30 Days - 0%

12. DISCOUNT TERMS

DESTINATION UNLESS

BLOCK IS MARKED

SEE ADDENDUM

CODE

RFP

IFB

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION
g?hžh^i_iºk»k?lžln

SEE SCHEDULE

RFQ

11. DELIVERY FOR FOB

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

20 N 8th Street, Philadelphia PA 19107

Federal Acquistion Services (FAS)/Acquisition Operations Div

General Services Administration     3QZA



REQUEST FOR QUOTE

                                          GSA On-Line University (OLU) Learning Management System (LMS)



This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Subpart  12.6,  in  conjunction  with
FAR 13.5, as applicable, and as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.

The Government’s intent is to evaluate the submitted quotes (see instructions) against the criteria set forth below and then determine which
quote represents the best value that meets the requirement, considering price and other factors (tradeoffs).   The Government reserves the
exclusive right to make this determination of the best value and may award the task order to other than the lowest priced quote if it is
determined that the additional costs are justified in return for the superiority of the higher priced technical quote.

Questions:  To facilitate a timely award, all questions regarding this requirement shall be submitted in writing via email not later than July
2, 2010 by 3:00 PM Eastern Time to the GSA Contract Specialist, GSA IT Specialist, and GSA Contracting Officer at the following email addresses:



      Angela.Anderjack@gsa.gov
      Junaid.Shah@gsa.gov
      Eileen.Flanigan@gsa.gov

Please review the attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) describing requirements for providing a Learning Management System for GSA’s Online
University and respond with a written quote.   The Government intends to issue a Firm Fixed Price task order.  Submit quote in 2 volumes:
Volume 1 – Technical Submission; Volume 2 – Price Quote.

QUOTE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
The Government is requesting a Firm-Fixed Price (FFP) quote in response to this RFQ. The contractor shall include any license fee, subscription
fee, maintenance fee, monthly recurring fee, setup fee, Enterprise setup, Project Management, System/Application customization, etc in this FFP
quote to successfully support this PWS.

EVALUATION CRITERIA AND INSTRUCTIONS
Below are the evaluation criteria that the Government will use and the instructions with which each Quoter may submit a quote.

The Technical Factors are listed in descending order of importance with Technical Approach considered more important than Past Performance.  The
Technical Factors when combined are significantly more important than price.  However, price is always evaluated and price rises in importance
when technical merit among the quotes becomes more equal.

Quote Due Date/Time:  Quotes are due on or before July 14, 2010 3:00 PM Eastern Time via e-mail to the addresses listed above. Your company must
be registered in GSA's ITSS procurement system by the RFQ closing date and time in order to be eligible for award. To register in ITSS, go to
http://it-solutions.gsa.gov. Follow the instructions "Tell me about registration." Assistance, with registration in ITSS, is available by
contacting the ITSS Helpdesk at (877) 243-2889.

Note:  The Government will begin immediate review and evaluation of the quote submissions following the RFQ closing date and time.  Therefore, a
Quoter’s submission or information requests about this RFQ after the closing date and time are late and will not be considered.

1. Technical Quote:   Written --- Presented in Volume 1.

    A) Technical Approach
    B)  Past Performance

2. Price:  Written --- Presented in Volume 2.

Volume 1 – Technical Submission:

The Technical Quote shall be presented in writing and address the following criteria listed in descending order of importance: “Technical
Approach” and “Past Performance”.

Technical Quotes shall not exceed ten (10) double-spaced pages (12 pt type – one page equals one side of a sheet of paper). Graphics and tables
included in the technical quote need not be double-spaced, but to ensure legibility, the text shall be no smaller than 9 pt type. Technical
Compliance Matrix, Staffing Matrix, and Past Performance will not count towards the technical quote’s page limitation. Please note the
Government will only consider the first ten (10) pages of the technical submission.

Technical approach:

Within the technical quote 10 page limitation, the Quoter shall demonstrate the following:

    • Briefly describe how the quoted solution will meet the scope defined in PWS section 3.0.
    • Identify activities your company will undertake and timelines for achieving a smooth transition.
    • Discuss your approach to maintaining and operating the technical infrastructure to meet the PWS tasking in section 4.0.
    • Demonstrate how the quoted solution will comply with IT security controls & remediate vulnerabilities at task start in consistent with the
      PWS Security Requirements.  Summarize the actions and measures your company will use to protect the system and data.

The Technical Approach will be evaluated based on the degree to which the quote, overall, demonstrates an ability to meet the PWS requirements
and the suitability of the quoter’s approach.

Past Performance:
Information submitted for this factor shall not exceed two (2) double-spaced pages (12-pt type –one page equals one side of a piece of paper).
Anything submitted beyond 2 pages will not be considered.

The Quoter shall describe one (1) contract/task order that shows relevant past performance. Relevant past performance is considered past work in
which the requirements were similar in scope and size to the tasks detailed in the PWS.

  • Similar scope is defined as a contract/task order where the contractor provided, installed, implemented and maintained a secure, fully
    operational automated learning management system.
  • Similar size is defined as providing the learning management service to accommodate equal or greater than 10,000 users.

Provide a detailed explanation demonstrating the relevance of your example.  The past performance could have been performed either (as a prime
or sub) under a private industry, state government, or federal government task order.

Along with the explanation of each example, include the following information for evaluation purposes:
• Contract/order number
  • Name, organization, and telephone number of a verified point of contact familiar with the  contract/order
• Dollar value of the contract/order
• Period of performance
  • Names of subcontractor(s) used, if any, and a description of the extent of work performed by the subcontractor

The Government will evaluate the quality, timeliness, and customer’s  satisfaction  with  the  Quoter’s  past  performance.   In  conducting  the
assessment of the quoter’s past performance the Government reserves the right to use data obtained from other sources as well  as  that  provided
in the quote, including information contained in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS).  As  part  of  this  assessment,  the
Government may consider the number, type and severity of any quality,  delivery  or  cost  problems  experienced  in  performing  the  work,  the
corrective action taken, and the effectiveness of the corrective action.

Quoters are cautioned that it is exclusively the Quoter’s responsibility to ensure that information provided is accurate and complete for all
points of contact listed.  Further, Quoters are responsible for ensuring references will willingly participate in the Government’s attempts to
verify the information provided.  The Government will not be responsible for the inability to contact a Quoter’s references due to inaccurate
contact information or uncooperative references. Past performance information which cannot be readily confirmed may not be considered.


Volume 2 – Price Quote:
The Price Quote does not have a page limitation.  Technical information included within the   price portion of the quote will not be evaluated.
Spreadsheets need not be “double-spaced”; however, print included in the spreadsheet should be of comparable size to 12 pt type.

Price Quote Requirements: Quoters shall submit a FFP price quote for a 12-month base period of performance (September 1, 2010 – August 31, 2011)
 and four (4) successive optional years in accordance with their pre-existing contract (GWAC, GSA Schedule, etc) or open market pricing.

Quote Totals:
    • Show the labor categories and total number of hours quoted (if any) for base period and all optional years including any applicable
      discounts.
    • The price quote shall include a separate line item for base period and all optional years for any license fee, subscription fee,
      maintenance fee, monthly recurring fee, setup fee, Enterprise setup, Project Management, System/Application customization, etc.

Quoters shall submit their pricing quote for the complete performance period.  The Government plans to issue a task order based on initial
quotes received; therefore, Quoters are cautioned to submit their best price and technical quote upfront.

Caution: Any Quoters failing to identify the specific labor categories, price per hour and number of hours per each labor category will not be
considered. Missing or incomplete pricing data may result in the quote no longer being considered, or being downgraded.


