Addendum I

NRCAR Subpart 2009.5 Organizational Conflicts of Interest
§2009.500 Scope of subpart. In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 2210a., NRC acquisitions are processed in accordance with §2009.570, which takes precedence over FAR 9.5 with respect to organizational conflicts of interest. Where non-conflicting guidance appears in FAR 9.5, that guidance must be followed. §2009.570 NRC organizational conflicts of interest. §2009.570-1 Scope of policy. (a) It is the policy of NRC to avoid, eliminate, or neutralize contractor organizational conflicts of interest. The NRC achieves this objective by requiring all prospective contractors to submit information describing relationships, if any, with organizations or persons (including those regulated by the NRC) which may give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest in the event of contract award. (b) Contractor conflict of interest determinations cannot be made automatically or routinely. The application of sound judgment on virtually a case-by-case basis is necessary if the policy is to be applied to satisfy the overall public interest. It is not possible to prescribe in advance a specific method or set of criteria which would serve to identify and resolve all of the contractor conflict of interest situations that might arise. However, examples are provided in these regulations to guide application of this policy guidance. The ultimate test is as follows: Might the contractor, if awarded the contract, be placed in a position where its judgment may be biased, or where it may have an unfair competitive advantage? (c) The conflict of interest rule contained in this subpart applies to contractors and offerors only. Individuals or firms who have other relationships with the NRC (e.g., parties to a licensing proceeding) are not covered by this regulation. This rule does not apply to the acquisition of consulting services through the personnel appointment process, NRC agreements with other Government agencies, international organizations, or state, local, or foreign Governments. Separate procedures for avoiding conflicts of interest will be employed in these agreements, as appropriate. §2009.570-2 Definitions. Affiliates means business concerns which are affiliates of each other when either directly or indirectly one concern or individual controls or has the power to control another, or when a third party controls or has the power to control both. Contract means any contractual agreement or other arrangement with the NRC except as provided in §2009.570-1(c).

Contractor means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, co-sponsor, partnership, corporation, affiliates thereof, or their successors in interest, including their chief executives, directors, key personnel (identified in the contract), proposed consultants or subcontractors, which are a party to a contract with the NRC. Evaluation activities means any effort involving the appraisal of a technology, process, product, or policy. Offeror or prospective contractor means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, co-sponsor, partnership, corporation, or their affiliates or successors in interest, including their chief executives, directors, key personnel, proposed consultants, or subcontractors, submitting a bid or proposal, solicited or unsolicited, to the NRC to obtain a contract. Organizational conflicts of interest means that a relationship exists whereby a contractor or prospective contractor has present or planned interests related to the work to be performed under an NRC contract which: (1) May diminish its capacity to give impartial, technically sound, objective assistance and advice, or may otherwise result in a biased work product; or (2) May result in its being given an unfair competitive advantage. Potential conflict of interest means that a factual situation exists that suggests that an actual conflict of interest may arise from award of a proposed contract. The term potential conflict of interest is used to signify those situations that (1) Merit investigation before contract award to ascertain whether award would give rise to an actual conflict; or (2) Must be reported to the contracting officer for investigation if they arise during contract performance. Research means any scientific or technical work involving theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation. Subcontractor means any subcontractor of any tier who performs work under a contract with the NRC except subcontracts for supplies and subcontracts in amounts not exceeding $10,000. Technical consulting and management support services means internal assistance to a component of the NRC in the formulation or administration of its programs, projects, or policies which normally require that the contractor be given access to proprietary information or to information that has not been made available to the public. These services typically include assistance in the preparation of program plans, preliminary designs, specifications, or statements of work. §2009.570-3 Criteria for recognizing contractor organizational conflicts of interest. (a) General.

(1) Two questions will be asked in determining whether actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest exist: (i) Are there conflicting roles which might bias an offeror's or contractor's judgment in relation to its work for the NRC? (ii) May the offeror or contractor be given an unfair competitive advantage based on the performance of the contract? (2) NRC's ultimate determination that organizational conflicts of interest exist will be made in light of common sense and good business judgment based upon the relevant facts. While it is difficult to identify and to prescribe in advance a specific method for avoiding all of the various situations or relationships that might involve potential organizational conflicts of interest, NRC personnel will pay particular attention to proposed contractual requirements that call for the rendering of advice, consultation or evaluation activities, or similar activities that directly lay the groundwork for the NRC's decisions on regulatory activities, future procurements, and research programs. Any work performed at an applicant or licensee site will also be closely scrutinized by the NRC staff. (b) Situations or relationships. The following situations or relationships may give rise to organizational conflicts of interest: (1) The offeror or contractor shall disclose information that may give rise to organizational conflicts of interest under the following circumstances. The information may include the scope of work or specification for the requirement being performed, the period of performance, and the name and telephone number for a point of contact at the organization knowledgeable about the commercial contract. (i) Where the offeror or contractor provides advice and recommendations to the NRC in the same technical area where it is also providing consulting assistance to any organization regulated by the NRC. (ii) Where the offeror or contractor provides advice to the NRC on the same or similar matter on which it is also providing assistance to any organization regulated by the NRC. (iii) Where the offeror or contractor evaluates its own products or services, or has been substantially involved in the development or marketing of the products or services of another entity. (iv) Where the award of a contract would result in placing the offeror or contractor in a conflicting role in which its judgment may be biased in relation to its work for the NRC, or would result in an unfair competitive advantage for the offeror or contractor. (v) Where the offeror or contractor solicits or performs work at an applicant or licensee site while performing work in the same technical area for the NRC at the same site. (2) The contracting officer may request specific information from an offeror or contractor or may require special contract clauses such as provided in §2009.570-5(b) in the following circumstances:

(i) Where the offeror or contractor prepares specifications that are to be used in competitive procurements of products or services covered by the specifications. (ii) Where the offeror or contractor prepares plans for specific approaches or methodologies that are to be incorporated into competitive procurements using the approaches or methodologies. (iii) Where the offeror or contractor is granted access to information not available to the public concerning NRC plans, policies, or programs that could form the basis for a later procurement action. (iv) Where the offeror or contractor is granted access to proprietary information of its competitors. (v) Where the award of a contract might result in placing the offeror or contractor in a conflicting role in which its judgment may be biased in relation to its work for the NRC or might result in an unfair competitive advantage for the offeror or contractor. (c) Policy application guidance. The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to identify and resolve all contractor organizational conflict of interest situations. (1)(i) Example. The ABC Corp., in response to a Request For Proposal (RFP), proposes to undertake certain analyses of a reactor component as called for in the RFP. The ABC Corp. is one of several companies considered to be technically well qualified. In response to the inquiry in the RFP, the ABC Corp. advises that it is currently performing similar analyses for the reactor manufacturer. (ii) Guidance. An NRC contract for that particular work normally would not be awarded to the ABC Corp. because the company would be placed in a position in which its judgment could be biased in relationship to its work for the NRC. Because there are other well-qualified companies available, there would be no reason for considering a waiver of the policy. (2)(i) Example. The ABC Corp., in response to an RFP, proposes to perform certain analyses of a reactor component that is unique to one type of advanced reactor. As is the case with other technically qualified companies responding to the RFP, the ABC Corp. is performing various projects for several different utility clients. None of the ABC Corp. projects have any relationship to the work called for in the RFP. Based on the NRC evaluation, the ABC Corp. is considered to be the best qualified company to perform the work outlined in the RFP. (ii) Guidance. An NRC contract normally could be awarded to the ABC Corp. because no conflict of interest exists which could motivate bias with respect to the work. An appropriate clause would be included in the contract to preclude the ABC Corp. from subsequently contracting for work with the private sector that could create a conflict during the performance of the NRC contract. For example, ABC Corp. would be precluded from the performance of similar work for the company developing the advanced reactor mentioned in the example. (3)(i) Example. The ABC Corp., in response to a competitive RFP, submits a proposal to assist the NRC in revising NRC's guidance documents on the respiratory protection requirements of 10 CFR Part 20. ABC Corp. is the only firm determined to be technically acceptable. ABC Corp. has performed substantial work for regulated utilities in the past and is expected to continue

similar efforts in the future. The work has and will cover the writing, implementation, and administration of compliance respiratory protection programs for nuclear power plants. (ii) Guidance. This situation would place the firm in a role where its judgment could be biased in relationship to its work for the NRC. Because the nature of the required work is vitally important in terms of the NRC's responsibilities and no reasonable alternative exists, a waiver of the policy, in accordance with §2009.570-9 may be warranted. Any waiver must be fully documented in accordance with the waiver provisions of this policy with particular attention to the establishment of protective mechanisms to guard against bias. (4)(i) Example. The ABC Corp. submits a proposal for a new system to evaluate a specific reactor component's performance for the purpose of developing standards that are important to the NRC program. The ABC Corp. has advised the NRC that it intends to sell the new system to industry once its practicability has been demonstrated. Other companies in this business are using older systems for evaluation of the specific reactor component. (ii) Guidance. A contract could be awarded to the ABC Corp. if the contract stipulates that no information produced under the contract will be used in the contractor's private activities unless this information has been reported to the NRC. Data on how the reactor component performs, which is reported to the NRC by contractors, will normally be disseminated by the NRC to others to preclude an unfair competitive advantage. When the NRC furnishes information about the reactor component to the contractor for the performance of contracted work, the information may not be used in the contractor's private activities unless the information is generally available to others. Further, the contract will stipulate that the contractor will inform the NRC contracting officer of all situations in which the information, developed about the performance of the reactor component under the contract, is proposed to be used. (5)(i) Example. The ABC Corp., in response to a RFP, proposes to assemble a map showing certain seismological features of the Appalachian fold belt. In accordance with the representation in the RFP and §2009.570-3(b)(1)(i), ABC Corp. informs the NRC that it is presently doing seismological studies for several utilities in the eastern United States, but none of the sites are within the geographic area contemplated by the NRC study. (ii) Guidance. The contracting officer would normally conclude that award of a contract would not place ABC Corp. in a conflicting role where its judgment might be biased. Section 2052.20972(c) Work for Others, would preclude ABC Corp. from accepting work which could create a conflict of interest during the term of the NRC contract. (6)(i) Example. AD Division of ABC Corp., in response to a RFP, submits a proposal to assist the NRC in the safety and environmental review of applications for licenses for the construction, operation, and decommissioning of fuel cycle facilities. ABC Corp. is divided into two separate and distinct divisions, AD and BC. The BC Division performs the same or similar services for industry. The BC Division is currently providing the same or similar services required under the NRC's contract for an applicant or licensee. (ii) Guidance. An NRC contract for that particular work would not be awarded to the ABC Corp. The AD Division could be placed in a position to pass judgment on work performed by the BC Division, which could bias its work for NRC. Further, the Conflict of Interest provisions apply to ABC Corp. and not to separate or distinct divisions within the company. If no reasonable alternative exists, a waiver of the policy could be sought in accordance with §2009.570-9.

(7)(i) Example. The ABC Corp. completes an analysis for NRC of steam generator tube leaks at one of a utility's six sites. Three months later, ABC Corp. is asked by this utility to perform the same analysis at another of its sites. (ii) Guidance. Section 2052.290-72(c)(3) would prohibit the contractor from beginning this work for the utility until one year after completion of the NRC work at the first site. (8)(i) Example. ABC Corp. is assisting NRC in a major on-site analysis of a utility's redesign of the common areas between its twin reactors. The contract is for two years with an estimated value of $5 million. Near the completion of the NRC work, ABC Corp. requests authority to solicit for a $100K contract with the same utility to transport spent fuel to a disposal site. ABC Corp. is performing no other work for the utility. (ii) Guidance. The Contracting Officer would allow the contractor to proceed with the solicitation because it is not in the same technical area as the NRC work; and the potential for technical bias by the contractor because of financial ties to the utility is slight due to the relative value of the two contracts. (9)(i) Example. The ABC Corp. is constructing a turbine building and installing new turbines at a reactor site. The contract with the utility is for five years and has a total value of $100 million. ABC Corp. has responded to an NRC Request For Proposal requiring the contractor to participate in a major team inspection unrelated to the turbine work at the same site. The estimated value of the contract is $75K. (ii) Guidance. An NRC contract would not normally be awarded to ABC Corp. because these factors create the potential for financial loyalty to the utility that may bias the technical judgment of the contractor. (d) Other considerations. (1) The fact that the NRC can identify and later avoid, eliminate, or neutralize any potential organizational conflicts arising from the performance of a contract is not relevant to a determination of the existence of conflicts prior to the award of a contract. (2) It is not relevant that the contractor has the professional reputation of being able to resist temptations which arise from organizational conflicts of interest, or that a follow-on procurement is not involved, or that a contract is awarded on a competitive or a sole source basis. §2009.570-4 Representation. (a) The following procedures are designed to assist the NRC contracting officer in determining whether situations or relationships exist which may constitute organizational conflicts of interest with respect to a particular offeror or contractor. The procedures apply to small purchases meeting the criteria stated in the following paragraph (b) of this section. (b) The organizational conflicts of interest representation provision at §2052.209-71 must be included in solicitations and contracts resulting from unsolicited proposals. The contracting officer must also include this provision for task orders and contract modifications for new work for:

(1) Evaluation services or activities; (2) Technical consulting and management support services; (3) Research; and (4) Other contractual situations where special organizational conflicts of interest provisions are noted in the solicitation and would be included in the resulting contract. This representation requirement also applies to all modifications for additional effort under the contract except those issued under the "Changes" clause. Where, however, a statement of the type required by the organizational conflicts of interest representation provisions has previously been submitted with regard to the contract being modified, only an updating of the statement is required. (c) The offeror may, because of actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest, propose to exclude specific kinds of work contained in a RFP unless the RFP specifically prohibits the exclusion. Any such proposed exclusion by an offeror will be considered by the NRC in the evaluation of proposals. If the NRC considers the proposed excluded work to be an essential or integral part of the required work and its exclusion would be to the detriment of the competitive posture of the other offerors, the NRC shall reject the proposal as unacceptable. (d) The offeror's failure to execute the representation required by paragraph (b) of this section with respect to an invitation for bids is considered to be a minor informality. The offeror will be permitted to correct the omission. §2009.570-5 Contract clauses. (a) General contract clause. All contracts and simplified acquisitions of the types set forth in §2009.570-4(b) must include the clause entitled, "Contractor Organizational Conflicts of Interest," set forth in §2052.209-72. (b) Other special contract clauses. If it is determined from the nature of the proposed contract that an organizational conflict of interest exists, the contracting officer may determine that the conflict can be avoided, or, after obtaining a waiver in accordance with §2009.570-9, neutralized through the use of an appropriate special contract clause. If appropriate, the offeror may negotiate the terms and conditions of these clauses, including the extent and time period of any restriction. These clauses include but are not limited to: (1) Hardware exclusion clauses which prohibit the acceptance of production contracts following a related non-production contract previously performed by the contractor; (2) Software exclusion clauses; (3) Clauses which require the contractor (and certain of its key personnel) to avoid certain organizational conflicts of interest; and (4) Clauses which provide for protection of confidential data and guard against its unauthorized use. §2009.570-6 Evaluation, findings, and contract award.

The contracting officer shall evaluate all relevant facts submitted by an offeror and other relevant information. After evaluating this information against the criteria of §2009.570-3, the contracting officer shall make a finding of whether organizational conflicts of interest exist with respect to a particular offeror. If it has been determined that real or potential conflicts of interest exist, the contracting officer shall: (a) Disqualify the offeror from award; (b) Avoid or eliminate such conflicts by appropriate measures; or (c) Award the contract under the waiver provision of §2009.570-9. §2009.570-7 Conflicts identified after award. If potential organizational conflicts of interest are identified after award with respect to a particular contractor and the contracting officer determines that conflicts do exist and that it would not be in the best interest of the Government to terminate the contract, as provided in the clauses required by §2009.570-5, the contracting officer shall take every reasonable action to avoid, eliminate, or, after obtaining a waiver in accordance with §2009.570-9, neutralize the effects of the identified conflict. §2009.570-8 Subcontracts. The contracting officer shall require offerors and contractors to submit a representation statement from all subcontractors (other than a supply subcontractor) and consultants performing services in excess of $10,000 in accordance with §2009.570-4(b). The contracting officer shall require the contractor to include contract clauses in accordance with §2009.570-5 in consultant agreements or subcontracts involving performance of work under a prime contract. §2009.570-9 Waiver. (a) The contracting officer determines the need to seek a waiver for specific contract awards with the advice and concurrence of the program office director and legal counsel. Upon the recommendation of the Senior Procurement Executive, and after consultation with legal counsel, the Executive Director for Operations may waive the policy in specific cases if he determines that it is in the best interest of the United States to do so. (b) Waiver action is strictly limited to those situations in which: (1) The work to be performed under contract is vital to the NRC program; (2) The work cannot be satisfactorily performed except by a contractor whose interests give rise to a question of conflict of interest. (3) Contractual and/or technical review and surveillance methods can be employed by the NRC to neutralize the conflict. (c) The justification and approval documents for any waivers must be placed in the NRC Public Document Room.

§2009.570-10 Remedies. In addition to other remedies permitted by law or contract for a breach of the restrictions in this subpart or for any intentional misrepresentation or intentional nondisclosure of any relevant interest required to be provided for this section, the NRC may debar the contractor from subsequent NRC contracts.

          Addendum A to RFP NRC3310ADAMS  IDIQ Statement of Work   

Table of Contents 
1.  Background .............................................................................................................. 1  2.  Objective .................................................................................................................. 1  3.  ECM Program and Vision........................................................................................ 2  3.1.  ECM Program ...................................................................................................... 2  3.2.  ECM Vision.......................................................................................................... 2  4.  Overview of ADAMS .............................................................................................. 2  5.  ADAMS Libraries and Access Mechanisms ........................................................... 4  6.  Applications and Interfaces Dependent on ADAMS ............................................... 4  7.  Estimated Volume of ADAMS Documents ............................................................. 6  8.  ADAMS and IBM FileNet P8 Challenges ............................................................... 6  9.  Scope of IDIQ Contract ........................................................................................... 6  10.  508 Compliance.................................................................................................... 7  10.1.  Section 508 Program Need ............................................................................... 8  10.2.  Section 508 Product Requirements................................................................... 8  10.3.  Section 508 Evaluation Factors ........................................................................ 8  10.4.  Section 508 Acceptance Criteria ...................................................................... 8  11.  NRC Enterprise Architecture (EA) Standards ..................................................... 9  12.  Deliverables ........................................................................................................ 11  13.  Performance Measures ....................................................................................... 11  14.  Instructions for Deliverables .............................................................................. 11  15.  Primary Place of Performance............................................................................ 12  16.  Travel ................................................................................................................. 12  17.  Post Award Kick-Off Meeting ........................................................................... 13  18.  Status Meetings .................................................................................................. 13 

1. Background
The U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) ensures that the nation safely uses radioactive materials for beneficial civilian purposes while ensuring that people and the environment are protected. The NRC regulates commercial nuclear power plants and other uses of nuclear materials, such as nuclear medicine, through licensing, inspection, and enforcement of its regulations. Information associated with these endeavors are stored in and accessed from many different repositories; the primary repository is a document management system known as the Agencywide Documents Access and Management System (ADAMS). ADAMS is discussed in detail in Section C.4, Overview of ADAMS. The NRC Office of Information Services (OIS) plans, directs, and oversees the NRC's information resources, including technology infrastructure and delivery of information management and technology services to meet the mission and goals of the agency and is the business sponsor of this effort. The OIS Information and Records Services Division (OIS/IRSD) plans, develops, and delivers programs and services related to the storage, retrieval, protection, and preservation of NRC information in paper and electronic media. It also assists internal and external stakeholders obtain NRC information through the Public Document Room, ADAMS Support Center, the Technical Library, the File Center, the NRC internal and external Web Sites, and the FOIA and Privacy Act programs. IRSD manages a centralized system for the electronic search and retrieval of internal and external agency documents. It also develops and administers the agency information collection budget and directs the agency's records management services. The Enterprise Content Management (ECM) Program was established within OIS/ IRSD to address agency content management needs that include, but are not limited to, content storage, eForms, search/query/discovery, retrieval, versioning/change management, records management, compliance, capture/ingest, workflow, digital signature, collaboration, security (content security and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) compliance), administration, taxonomy, metadata, data quality/integrity, Personally Identifiable Information (PII) management, rendering, publishing, and enterprise reporting.

2. Objective
The objective of this IDIQ contract is to outline the required professional Information Technology (IT) Services for the NRC ECM Program. Contract services are intended to be provided primarily by an IBM FileNet P8 certified and authorized Contractor for the purpose of providing a full range of IT services, technical expertise, and project management expertise to: 1. Ensure ADAMS operations meets applicable standards by applying Agency adopted project management methodologies; 2. Provide implementation support and re-engineering services to migrate ADAMS applications operating under IBM FileNet Content Services operating system
Page 1

(OS) to operate under the IBM FileNet P8 OS. 3. Maintain synchronized ADAMS Main Library (FileNet Content Services) with the FileNet P8 Main Library by operating existing synchronization routines. (see section 5, ADAMS Libraries and Access Mechanisms); 4. Retire and decommission the IBM FileNet Content Services OS and all related application as migrations are complete; 5. Provide operations and maintenance support for the IBM FileNet Content Services OS (while it remains operational during the migration effort) and the P8 OS as well as the applications that run on each of these environments; 6. Automate processes such as E-mail capture, records management, and document profiling by using the functions available in FileNet P8 and establish workflows for business processes for mission-critical programs and corporatesupport operations; 7. Coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to perform the development, update and review of all required security documentation for the IBM FileNet P8-based system.

3. ECM Program and Vision
3.1. ECM Program
The ECM Program is an agency wide organizational framework of projects, technologies, policies, governance, and individuals focused on bringing to the NRC, a web-based and collaborative system for content management, streamlined content profiling, straightforward records management, simplified searching, and the ability to combine office workflows with content creation and use. The ECM program has direct responsibility over the establishment of policies, processes, activities, and technologies that involve delivering content management solutions for NRC.

3.2. ECM Vision
The ECM Vision is to improve the quality, efficiency, and security of our regulatory and administrative business processes by providing appropriate and straightforward access to information when needed, regardless of location or access device.

4. Overview of ADAMS
The majority of the NRC's electronic documents and records rely on aging technology known collectively as ADAMS. In addition, a number of mission-critical applications operate in conjunction with ADAMS. The ADAMS system, which is based on IBM's FileNet Panagon Content Services 5.4 (CS) platform, reached a point in its lifecycle where the system's architecture, infrastructure, and software are outdated and no longer support the NRC's needs.
Page 2

Additionally, CS has reached its end of life and is operating at the NRC on extended support by the vendor. The NRC delivered the first version of the ADAMS system based on the Panagon line of products to users in November 1999. The Panagon line of products did not include a records management component; thus, the NRC purchased the TruArc ForeMost records management product and integrated it into the ADAMS system. In May 2001, the NRC completed the integration of ForeMost and users were able to move electronic agency records into the ADAMS repository although ForeMost is providing only minimal value to the NRC, The NRC obtained Contractor support to develop and deploy many enhancements to ADAMS to accommodate new requirements, stay current with updates to the FileNet Panagon product suite, correct software and design errors, and to integrate additional Web-based products to support specific search needs. As the migration from CS to P8 approaches, the NRC has curtailed all but essential changes to the CS environment. Building the ADAMS document management system involved more than just configuring and deploying the Panagon and ForeMost products. The NRC obtained Contractor support to customize the ADAMS system to make it easier to use and add missing capabilities. Some of the customizations helped ADAMS administrators by making it easier for them to correct data, administer user access, and keep the system in good repair. Other customizations benefited users, by allowing them to group related documents into packages, view different kinds of documents (e.g. Microsoft Word documents, Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Corel WordPerfect documents, and Adobe PDF files), establish a process to convert document formats to a standard archival format (PDF), and make it difficult to accidentally delete agency records from the system. The NRC also responded to public requests for a web-based ADAMS search by acquiring the Convera RetrievalWare search tool. This web-based version of the public database went live on January 24, 2003. The NRC developed the Public Information Portal (PIP) that the public uses to search and retrieve documents stored in the Public Library (see Table 1 in Section 5 for a description). Shortly after delivering PIP, the NRC developed the Staff Interface Portal (SIP). SIP, which went live January 2, 2006, lets the NRC staff search for and retrieve documents stored in the ADAMS Main Library repository (see Table 1 in Section 5 for a description) from their web browser. Over the past several years, NRC program offices required additional content intake, management, and workflow that were developed and incorporated as add-ons to the original ADAMS. The ADAMS integrated applications and interfaces with these specific functionalities include Document Intake and Review Platform (DIRP), Email Capture, Electronic Request for Additional Information (eRAI), Generic Communication (GC), Electronic Information Exchange (EIE), interfaces to Licensing Support Network (LSN), etc. As a result of NRC's expanded business needs, in June 2008, NRC acquired additional licenses for IBM's FileNet P8 as an upgrade path. P8 is considered a temporary solution to keep ADAMS operating and is expected to be in place through the two year base period and through the three years term award. Since late in 2008, the NRC has been testing and prototyping automated processes developed using FileNet P8 products and
Page 3

FileNet Workplace XT. The NRC intends to rollout a parallel ADAMS environment based on P8 by the end of 2010.

5. ADAMS Libraries and Access Mechanisms
The ADAMS libraries and respective access mechanisms are described in Table 1: Table 1:
ADAMS Component Main Library Purpose The Main Library is the primary repository for all NRC Official Agency Records. Electronic Official Agency Records are stored as Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) files with a variety of other formats used (primarily based on the Microsoft suite of tools) for working versions. The Legacy Library contains bibliographic metadata such as title, author, recipient, date, subject, and description which serve as pointers to the document's location in the Nuclear Document System (NUDOCS) - the paper and microfiche-based predecessor to ADAMS. The Public Library contains publicly available agency records stored as Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) files. The Public Library is a subset of the Main Library and is also referred to as Public Access Record System (PARS) The Public Legacy Library is a subset of the Legacy Library; this library contains only metadata such as title, author, recipient, date, subject, and description which serve as a pointer to the document's location in the NUDOCS system. The ADAMS Desktop is a client/server application that allows NRC users to browse the Main Library and Legacy Library and permits users to add documents to the Main Library (including setting document access control). It also includes the ADAMS `Find' feature used to search for and retrieve documents.

Legacy Library

Public Library

Public Legacy Library

ADAMS Desktop

6. Applications and Interfaces Dependent on ADAMS
ADAMS uses an early-generation client/server technology modified to meet the NRC business needs. The combination of outdated technology with customizations yielded an application architecture that is difficult to adapt to emerging NRC business needs. NRC needs to improve the platform with which it manages documents. Due to the inability of the existing technology to efficiently and effectively support new business processes, the NRC developed new integrated applications. In many cases, these work-around, custom applications, interfaces, and business processes are integrated with ADAMS to handle agency records processes. However, they do so at the expense of increased data duplication, system complexity, and sometimes over-engineered processes that add significantly to ongoing maintenance and support costs. The NRC has a fairly extensive installed base of SharePoint sites. Usage ranges from out of the box functionality to extensive customization. Tomoye Ecco is also in use as a Community of Practice tool. The ADAMS integrated applications and interfaces are described in Table 2:
Page 4

Table 2:
Applications and Interfaces Document Intake and Review Platform (DIRP) Purpose DIRP enables the NRC's Document Processing Center to rapidly accept, process, and profile the electronic Combined Operating License Application / Design Control Document (COLA/DCD) submissions, provide a mechanism to ensure the integrity of the submissions at any given time, reduce the need for duplication, and provide easy access and navigation to the submitted documents. EIE is a web-based tool that enables licensees regulated under 10 CFR Part 50 to submit information electronically. This tool also allows applicants for positions in Nuclear power plants to submit clearance forms. EHD is a system that enables authorized participants to electronically submit and retrieve general proceeding documents and supports public access to publicly available documents online. EIP is a portal that enables authorized participants to electronically query and retrieve general proceeding documents. SIP is a web-based search tool used by the NRC staff to query and retrieve content stored in the main library. PIP is a web-based search tool used by the public to query and retrieve content stored in the public library, also known as Webbased Public Access Records System (PARS). A custom interface was developed to DDMS. DDMS is a system supporting the high-level waste hearings by providing the necessary information technology and audio/visual (A/V) resources for a fully integrated courtroom environment. A custom interface was developed to LSN, which provides a webbased portal to the high-level waste hearing participants' documents. Electronic Email Capture is a process by which certain desktop e-mail (versus server-based) information is automatically captured, processed, provided a disposition, and provided a retention attribute. FLAP provides automatic and configurable profiling of documents by placing them into a designated folder within ADAMS. eRAI is a SharePoint-based workflow for creating Requests For Additional Information (RAI), used by the license reviewer community and is fully integrated with ADAMS GC is a SharePoint based tracking system that tracks activities on Generic Communications issued to the licensees. The NRC acquired the SharePoint Connector for Document Library and Web Part as part of the P8 suite of products. SharePoint at the NRC facilitates collaboration, provides content management features, implements business processes, and provides access to ADAMS information that is essential to the NRC mission in a collaborative environment. The Tomoye Ecco Portal at NRC facilitates the sharing of new ideas, best practices, and collaboration. Page 5

Electronic Information Exchange (EIE)

Electronic Hearing Docket (EHD) EIP (Electronic Hearing Docket Interface Portal) Staff Interface Portal (SIP) Public Interface Portal (PIP) (Interface to the) Digital Data Management System (DDMS) (Interface to the) Licensing Support Network (LSN) Electronic Email Capture

Folder Level Automatic Profiling (FLAP) Electronic Request for Additional Information (eRAI) Electronic Generic Communication (GC) SharePoint Portal

Tomoye Ecco Portal

Applications and Interfaces Microsoft Office and Outlook ADAMS Integrations.

Purpose NRC developed a custom ADAMS interface to Microsoft Office for the MS Windows operating environment, which supports Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and Microsoft PowerPoint. These three products allow a user to add, open, check-in, and cancel check-out of a document from the menu bar in the respective tool. In addition, NRC developed an add-in to Microsoft Outlook that allows a user to automatically and seamlessly add an e-mail to ADAMS and create an ADAMS package from the menu bar in Microsoft Outlook.

7. Estimated Volume of ADAMS Documents
The NRC manages its documents (e.g., Microsoft Office documents, PDF files, audio/video, images, etc.) in several systems (e.g., Microsoft SharePoint, Tomoye, DDMS, Intranet, etc.) and in several repositories (e.g., network drives, local drives, Microsoft Exchange, etc.) with ADAMS being the primary and largest of all the repositories. Currently, there are approximately 4 million files in ADAMS consisting of 1.7 million documents and 2.3 million versions.

8. ADAMS and IBM FileNet P8 Challenges
ADAMS is a mature system based on dated technology - IBM FileNet Panagon Content Services 5.4 platform which is nearing the end of vendor support. In addition, there are critical components in ADAMS that do not function properly and the ability to successfully recover from future failures is uncertain. Certain ADAMS FileNet Operating System components are on limited support by the vendor while others are rapidly approaching end of life. As part of its maintenance on ADAMS, the NRC needs to ensure a reliable operating environment for ADAMS. To achieve this, NRC must move ADAMS from its current base platform, IBM's FileNet Panagon Content Services 5.4, to IBM's FileNet P8 platform. The challenges NRC faces include migrating an estimated: 1) 5,000 users, 2) content (estimated 4 million files and packages (multiple files consolidated into one file)), 3) several applications, and 4) dozens of reports. The integrated applications and interfaces (in Table 2 in Section 6) and their associated business processes need to be migrated to, or re-engineered for the IBM FileNet P8 platform. It is the NRC's intent to perform system migrations and re-engineering efforts using a phased, incremental, and secure approach without disruption to NRC operations, which will be the responsibility of the Contractor. The applications also may need to be revised to improve the efficiency and interoperability of their operation.

9. Scope of IDIQ Contract
Task orders may be negotiated and awarded to the Contractor to perform the following types of tasks under the IDIQ contract: - Ensure ADAMS operations meets applicable standards by applying NRC-adopted project management methodologies. - Migrate applications from the Content Services operating system (OS) that rely on
Page 6

ADAMS (see section 6, Integrated Applications and Interfaces Dependent on ADAMS) and revise them to operate under the P8 OS as well as provide reengineering, migration, integration, and implementation support. Maintain synchronized ADAMS Main libraries and existing synchronization routines for both ADAMS OS'- Content Services, and P8 as well as the applications that run on each of these environments; (see section 5, ADAMS Libraries and Access Mechanisms). - Retire and decommission the Content Services OS and all related application as migrations are complete. - Provide operations and maintenance support for the Content Services OS (while it remains operational during the migration effort) and the P8 OS. - Automate processes such as E-mail capture, records management, and document profiling by using the functionalities available in P8 and establish workflows for business processes for mission-critical programs and corporate-support operations; - Provide security consulting and Certification and Accreditation (C&A) services. The Contractor may be tasked to provide a full range of IT services, technical expertise, integration services, software development services, and project management. The Contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel, materials, equipment, facilities, travel, and other services required to satisfy the requirements of task orders negotiated and awarded under this IDIQ contract. The contractor may also be tasked to make recommendations for improvements to NRC business processes and organizational effectiveness and develop and deliver training on these recommendations at the discretion and direction of the NRC Project Officer. In performing task orders under this IDIQ contract, the Contractor shall store all documents associated with the contract in NRC's IBM Rational Clearcase system and use NRC's IBM's Rational ClearQuest system for tracking changes. In addition, the Contactor shall follow NRC Management Directive (MD) 2.8, "Project Management Methodology (PMM)", and its associated handbook, the PMM Manual. This single Management Directive includes both the policy and a configurable process with guidance, tools, and templates to support the implementation of that process. For Information pertaining to NRC Management Directive (MD) 2.8 and "Project Management Methodology (PMM)", and its associated handbook, the PMM Manual, see solicitation attachments. Specific task order requirements for the types of work within the scope of this IDIQ contract will be specified in each task order Performance Work Statement (PWS) and will be negotiated with the Contractor before they are awarded.

10. 6

508 Compliance

The Contractor shall support the NRC in its compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d), throughout the period of performance of the contract. Section 508 requires that when Federal agencies develop,
Page 7

procure, maintain, or use electronic information technology, Federal employees with disabilities have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use by Federal employees who do not have disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Section 508 also requires that individuals with disabilities, who are members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal agency, have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that provided to the public who are not individuals with disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency.

10.1.

Section 508 Program Need

Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the following program need: "Web applications."

10.2.

Section 508 Product Requirements

Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Functional performance criteria from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart C have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those functional performance criteria identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

10.3.

Section 508 Evaluation Factors

Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the requirements for Section 508. Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508 requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation) will be eligible for any additional merit consideration.

10.4.

Section 508 Acceptance Criteria

Web applications delivered as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508 requirements for accessibility. Web applications
Page 8

delivered must include a completed GPAT, a sample of which is included as a part of this solicitation.
Table 3 - Government Product Accessibility Template (GPAT)

CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Total Number of Applicable Provisions
12

Notes

Total Number of Supported Provisions Fully Partial Not

Please explain

Section 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems (12 provisions)

Section 1194.22 Web-based Internet Information and Applications (16 provisions)

16

If the Webapp includes software applications, such as Browsers, Plug-ins, extensions, etc, then this Section applies. This Section applies to Webapps. It also applies IF information, documentation, and support are provided via an intranet or the Internet. Functional performance criteria always apply. If information, documentation, and support are to be provided by the vendor, then this Section applies.

Section 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria (6 provisions) Section 1194.41 Information, documentation, and support (3 provisions)

6

3

11. NRC Enterprise Architecture (EA) Standards
The Contractor shall ensure the IBM FileNet P8 platform suite of products and any nonIBM third party ECM software procured (by the NRC, not the Contractor) and provided to
Page 9

the Contractor under the task order shall execute in an environment containing the following technology elements and products currently implemented at NRC. As the NRC EA landscape evolves, the Contractor shall ensure the IBM FileNet P8 platform suite of products and any non-IBM third party ECM software executes in that EA. NRC's current technology elements and products are evolving and currently include: a) Standard Desktop Hardware Configuration - The current standard NRC desktop workstations are the Dell OptiPlex GX520, GX570, and 755 (PCcompatible, x8086 family, equipped with an Intel Pentium processor) running Windows XP Professional, SP2. b) Standard Desktop OS/Software Configuration - The current standard NRC desktop OS and software configuration is setup with Windows XP Professional, SP2, Microsoft Office Pro 2003, Microsoft Office Outlook 2007, Internet Explorer (IE) V6, Adobe Acrobat Reader V9, Microsoft Visio 2003 Viewer and AutoCAD Design Review. Note: A new version of IE will be implemented. c) Laptop Hardware Configuration - The current laptop models are the Dell Latitude E4300 and E6400 and a variety of other PC-compatible platforms. d) Laptop OS/Software Configuration - Generally, the configuration of laptop computers follows closely those of the Standard Desktop Configuration.

e) Web Server Hardware Configuration - The current standard NRC web server runs on a Dell PowerEdge 2850 or an HP Proliant DL380/DL580 (equipped with Intel Pentium or Xeon processors) running with Windows Server 2003 Standard Edition, SP2. The NRC also utilizes the Sun hardware (v210, v240, v440) for its development, testing and production environments for some web servers. Note: The models vary ­ predominantly HP Proliants. f) Web Server OS/Software Configuration ­ The current standards include Microsoft Windows Server, Internet Information Services (IIS), iPlanet Web Server Enterprise Edition, Sun ONE Web Server , Apache HTTP Server, and Oracle HTTP Server. The NRC will continue to implement web server technologies to provide efficient and stable publicly available documents. The NRC will continue to expand existing agreements with its Web-caching Contractor to duplicate the public document collection to remote sites.

g) Application Server Hardware Configuration - The current standard NRC application servers run on a Dell PowerEdge 2850/2950/6850 or a HP Proliant DL380/DL580 (equipped with Intel Pentium or Xeon processors) running Windows Server 2003 Standard Edition, SP2. Note: The models actually vary quite a bit ­ predominantly HP Proliants. h) Application Server OS/Software Configuration - The NRC will continue to implement and integrate application server technologies like BEA WebLogic, Microsoft .Net and Oracle Application Server to provide efficient workflow infrastructure. The NRC uses a combination of Windows 2003 and 2008 server O/S in both 32-bit and 64-bit versions.

Page 10

i)

Database Server Hardware Configuration - The current standard NRC database servers run on a Dell PowerEdge 2850/2950/6850 or a HP Proliant DL380/DL580 (equipped with Intel Pentium or Xeon processors) running Windows Server 2003/2008 Standard/Enterprise Edition. Note: The models vary quite a bit ­ predominantly HP Proliants. Database Server OS/Software Configuration - The NRC predominantly uses Microsoft SQL and Sybase database technologies. The NRC uses a combination of Windows 2003 and 2008 server O/S in both 32-bit and 64-bit versions.

j)

k) Storage Configuration (SAN and NAS Server) - The NRC predominantly uses XIOTECH Magnitude 3000 storage management system, and Hitachi Data Systems Thunder modular storage system. Note - Microsoft Office 2007 is currently targeted for FY 2010 (October 2009 ­ September 2010). Windows 7 is targeted for FY 2011 (October 2010 ­ September 2011).

12. Deliverables
The Deliverables are identified at each Task in this PWS.

13.

Performance Measures

Contractor Performance Measures and Contractor Performance Evaluation Form will be used to evaluate Contractor performance under this task order every six (6) months.

14. Instructions for Deliverables
Each deliverable shall first be submitted to the Project Officer for Project Officer review. Project Officer will have 10 calendar days to review each draft deliverable and respond to the Contractor in writing with comments or approval. If the NRC does not provide comments to the Contractor at the end of 10 days, the Contractor shall assume the deliverable has been approved by the Project Officer. If revisions are required based on written comments from the Project Officer, the Contractor shall complete such revisions within 7 calendar days and submit the revised draft deliverable to the Project Officer. For each deliverable (draft and final), the Contractor shall provide one (1) electronic version of the deliverable via e-mail to the Project Officer. All deliverables and supporting documentation gathered or developed under the task order may not be stored on any device or piece of equipment that has not been approved in writing by the Project Officer. The Contactor shall ensure all deliverables and supporting documentation gathered or developed under the task order are stored in NRC's of IBM Rational Clearcase and follow the NRC PMM approved template format.

Page 11

All final deliverables shall be: a. Free of formatting and spelling errors, be clearly written, and have no incomplete sections. b. Submitted in a Microsoft Office tool such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc., version 2007 or higher and shall be free of computer viruses. c. "Plain English" language that can be understood by a non-technical layperson. Statistical and other technical terms used in the deliverable shall be defined in a glossary. d. Microsoft Project 2007 for use to develop and maintain the Project Plan Accompanied by a cover letter from the Contractor on company letterhead. Multiple deliverables may be delivered with a single cover letter describing the contents of the complete package.

15. Primary Place of Performance
The Contractor shall perform work under this task order on-site at the headquarters of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Rockville, MD located in the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan area. If approved in writing in advance by the Project Officer, work may also be performed at the Contractor's site. Government furnished equipment onsite at NRC will include a desktop for the on-site Contractors for general office use with connection to the NRC LAN and a telephone. If Contractor personnel are performing work off-site, Contractor personnel shall be available to travel to the NRC in Rockville, MD for meetings within 24 hour written notice from the Project Officer. The Contractor shall have access to the Government facilities: five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EST, except when the Government facility is closed due to local or national emergencies, administrative closings, Government holidays, or similar Government-directed facility closings. The NRC office location is: U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Headquarters 11545 and 11555 Rockville Pike Rockville, MD 20852

16. Travel
Performance under this task order may require travel to NRC's four regional offices located in: U.S. NRC Region I 475 Allendale Road King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415

Page 12

U.S. NRC Region II Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center, 23 T85 61 Forsyth Street, SW Atlanta, GA 30303-8931 U.S. NRC Region III 2443 Warrenville Road Suite 210 Lisle, Illinois 60532-4352 U.S. NRC Region IV Texas Health Resources Tower 612 E. Lamar Blvd., Suite 400 Arlington, TX 76011-4125

17. Post Award Kick-Off Meeting
The Project Officer will schedule a kick-off meeting at NRC Headquarters in Rockville, MD, within five (5) days after task order award. The Project Officer will provide an agenda to the Contractor in writing prior to the meeting. The Contracting Officer, the Project Officer, and the Project Officer's technical personnel will represent the NRC. The Contractor shall have equivalent representation at the meeting. The Contractor shall be responsible for recording and distributing the minutes of this meeting to the Project Officer.

18. Status Meetings
The Contractor shall attend, at a minimum, weekly status meeting with the Project Officer at NRC Headquarters in Rockville, MD, to discuss ongoing work, issues, risks, and upcoming work that needs to be completed. The Contractor shall propose an agenda for the meeting and will send the agenda to the Project Officer at least three days before the meetings are to be convened. The Project Officer will finalize the agenda and distribute the agenda at least one day before the meeting. At the discretion of the Project Officer, the meetings may be conducted via conference calls or video conferencing. Ad-hoc status meetings may be convened as the need arises. The Contractor shall be responsible for recording and distributing the minutes of these meetings to the Project Officer.

Page 13

ADDENDUM B TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT FOR FIRST TASK ORDER

1.0 Background
The U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) ensures that the nation safely uses radioactive materials for beneficial civilian purposes while ensuring that people and the environment are protected. The NRC regulates commercial nuclear power plants and other uses of nuclear materials, such as nuclear medicine, through licensing, inspection, and enforcement of its regulations. Information associated with these endeavors are stored in and accessed from many different repositories; the primary repository is a document management system known as the Agency-wide Documents Access and Management System (ADAMS). ADAMS is discussed in detail in Section C.4, Overview of ADAMS. The Office of Information Services (OIS) plans, directs, and oversees the NRC's information resources, including technology infrastructure and delivery of information management and technology services to meet the mission and goals of the agency and is the business sponsor of this effort. The OIS Information and Records Services Division (OIS/IRSD) plans, develops, and delivers programs and services related to the storage, retrieval, protection, and preservation of NRC information in paper and electronic media. It also assists internal and external stakeholders obtain NRC information through the Public Document Room, ADAMS Support Center, the Technical Library, the File Center, the NRC internal and external Web Sites, and the FOIA and Privacy Act programs. IRSD manages a centralized system for the electronic search and retrieval of internal and external agency documents. It also develops and administers the agency information collection budget and directs the agency's records management services. The Enterprise Content Management (ECM) Program was established within OIS/IRSD to address agency content management needs that include, but are not limited to, content storage, eForms, search/query/discovery, retrieval, versioning/change management, records management, compliance, capture/ingest, workflow, digital signature, collaboration, security (content security and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) compliance), administration, taxonomy, metadata, data quality/integrity, Personally Identifiable Information (PII) management, rendering, publishing, and enterprise reporting.

2.0 Objective
The objective of this Performance Work Statement (PWS) is to outline the professional Contractor Information Technology (IT) Services required for the NRC ECM Program. The Contractor will be required to: 1. Ensure ADAMS operations meets applicable standards; 2. Provide implementation support and re-engineering services to migrate ADAMS applications operating under IBM FileNet Content Services operating system (OS) to operate under the IBM FileNet P8 OS.

Page 1 of 23

3. Maintain synchronized ADAMS Main Library (FileNet Content Services) with the FileNet P8 Main Library by operating existing synchronization routines. (see section C.5, ADAMS Libraries and Access Mechanisms); 4. Provide operations and maintenance support for the IBM FileNet Content Services OS (while it remains operational during the migration effort) and the P8 OS as well as the applications that run on each of these environments; 5. The NRC intends to use another Contractor ("NRC's security Contractor") to serve as the primary developer of deliverables needed for the Security Certification and Accreditation of ADAMS and related systems. The Contractor shall provide the information the NRC security Contractor needs to them so that they can develop the deliverables required for the Security Certification and Accreditation of ADAMS and related systems.

3.0 Scope of Work
3.1 Section 508 Program Need Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the following program need: "Web applications."

3.2

Section 508 Product Requirements

Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B have been determined to apply to this acquisition. The Offeror shall describe, its proposal, how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Functional performance criteria from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart C have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Offeror shall describe, its proposal, how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those functional performance criteria identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Offeror shall describe, its proposal, how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT). 3.3 Section 508 Acceptance Criteria

Web applications delivered under this task order will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508 requirements for accessibility. Web applications delivered must include a completed GPAT, a sample of which is provided in Table 3 below. Table 3 - Government Product Accessibility Template (GPAT)

Page 2 of 23

CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Section 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems (12 provisions)

Total Number of Applicable Provisions 12

Notes

Total Number of Supported Provisions Fully Partial Not

Please explain

Section 1194.22 Web-based Internet Information and Applications (16 provisions)

16

If the Webapp includes software applications, such as Browsers, Plug-ins, extensions, etc, then this Section applies. This Section applies to Webapps. It also applies IF information, documentation, and support are provided via an intranet or the Internet. Functional performance criteria always apply. If information, documentation, and support are to be provided by the vendor, then this Section applies.

Section 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria (6 provisions) Section 1194.41 Information, documentation, and support (3 provisions)

6

3

3,4

Any Contractor personnel working under this task order cannot assume the role of certification agent for any OIS/IRSD system. At no time is the Contractor allowed to configure an OIS/IRSD operational system.

The Contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel, materials, equipment, facilities, travel, and other services required to satisfy the requirements of this PWS.

Page 3 of 23

The Contractor shall perform the following tasks:

4 Task 1: Information Technology (IT) Project Management
The Contractor shall perform the following requirements on a Firm-Fixed-Price per month basis: The Contractor shall provide a full range of business and IT project management and consulting services that ensure that the NRC IBM FileNet P8 system meets NRC standards and is performing to its defined configuration, cost, schedule, and performance specifications/capabilities. This might include performing independent technical assessments as well as supporting the development, implementation, and continuous improvement of policies, procedures, guidelines, and directives related to or impacted by the NRC IBM FileNet P8 system. These services encompass all areas of the IT program and project management oversight including, but not limited to, issues management, enterprise architecture, information security, training, communications, organizational change, performance management, quality management, and risk management.

4.1 Project Plan
The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Project Plan. The Contractor shall reflect the considerations of other NRC support services areas (e.g., infrastructure, computer security, enterprise architecture, emerging business needs) in the Project Plan. The Project Plan shall define the approach to be used by the Contractor to deliver the objective of this PWS. The Project Plan shall use the Project Plan template in NRC MD 2.8. The Contractor shall ensure the WBS laid out in the Project Plan adequately defines all work necessary to meet the requirements of this task order. The Project Plan shall be base lined and used as the basis for Earned Value Management calculations and change management. The Project Plan shall be readable by Microsoft Project 2007 or later. The Contractor shall provide an updated Project Plan to the Project Officer on a monthly basis and shall be delivered to them in conjunction with the Monthly Status Report.

4.2 Configuration Management
The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Configuration Management (CM) Plan. The CM Plan shall include a schedule that lists items to be under CM control during the configuration, integration, testing, implementation, re-engineering, and migration of any IBM FileNet P8 platform products and any non-IBM third-party Enterprise Content Management (ECM) software that is procured (by the NRC, not the Contractor) during the period of performance of this task order. The NCR will provide a list of all software the Contractor is responsible for keeping under configuration control.

4.3 Risk Management
The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Risk Management (RM) Plan. The RM Plan shall, at a minimum: 1) identify risks and provide a mitigation plan for critical path items in a timely fashion and 2) present a process for implementing proactive risk management as part of the overall management of the project. This RM Plan shall serve as a basis for identifying alternatives to achieve cost, schedule, and performance goals, assist in making decisions on budget and funding priorities, provide risk information for scheduling decisions, and allow monitoring of the effectiveness of the project. The RM Plan shall describe methods for

Page 4 of 23

identifying, analyzing, prioritizing, and tracking risk drivers; developing risk-handling plans; and planning for adequate resources to handle risk.

4.4 Earned Value Management
The Contractor shall apply Earned Value Management (EVM) techniques and report earned value consistent with: 1) the American National Standards Institute /Electronic Industries Alliance (ANSI/EIA) 748-A Standards, which provide a set of best business practices for establishing and applying an integrated management system with coordination of work scope, schedule, and cost objectives and application of earned value methods for program or enterprise planning and control and 2) NRC Management Directive (MD) 2.8. The Contractor's schedule of variance data submitted shall provide visibility into root causes and establish corrective actions to achieve project completion within established task schedule. The Contractor shall provide all EVM data in tabular and graphical formats to communicate cost variance and schedule status, as well as the technical completion status of the project relative to the Performance Measurement Baseline. The Contractor shall collect EVM data using a three-tiered (Level 3) WBS (e.g., 1.1.1) and include a definition of the work to be conducted broken down into distinct discrete manageable tasks or groups of tasks (work packages) with decisive outputs and specific measurable entry and exit criteria. Each work package shall have a short duration, or be divided into a series of milestones whose status can be objectively measured. Each work package shall be assigned a start and finish date, a budget value, and able to be integrated with higher-level schedules. The Contractor shall report on each of the following measures: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB) Budget Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS) Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP) Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP) Cost Variance (CV) ­ The numerical difference between the earned value (BCWP) and the actual cost (ACWP). CV = BCWP ­ ACWP. 6. Schedule Variance (SV) - An indicator of how much a program is ahead of or behind schedule. SV = BCWP ­ BCWS. 7. Cost Performance Index (CPI) ­ The cost efficiency factor representing the relationship between the actual cost expended and the earned value. CPI = BCWP/ACWP. 8. Schedule Performance Index (SPI) ­ The planned schedule efficiency factor representing the relationship between the earned value and the initial planned schedule. SPI = BCWP/BCWS. 9. Budget at Completion (BAC) ­ The sum total of the time-phased budget. 10. Estimate to Complete (ETC) ­ A calculated value, in dollars or hours that represents the cost of work required to complete remaining project tasks. ETC = BAC ­ BCWP. 11. Estimate at Complete (EAC) ­ A calculated value, in dollars or hours that represents the projected total final costs of work when completed. EAC = ACWP + ETC.

4.5 Monthly Status Reports

Page 5 of 23

The Contractor shall submit an electronic version of a Monthly Program Status Report to the Project Officer according to Table 1 - Deliverables under Task 1. At a minimum, the following items shall be included in each status report: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Summary (accomplishments, overall status of all tasks) Financial (include staff utilization) Schedule (updated monthly) Planned Activities Report on the EVM data as outlined in Section C.10.1.4 Issues and Concerns (include risk and mitigation strategies) Updated Project Plan 8. Action Items

4.6 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Exhibit 300 for ADAMS
The Contactor shall provide support for completing OMB Exhibit 300 exercise for ADAMS. Required Contractor activities include contacting the Project Officer to obtain planning, budgeting, and acquisition data and information for the Primavera ProSight portfolio management system for timely Exhibit 300 submission by the NRC to the Office of Management and Budget. Table 1 - Deliverables under Task 1 include:

Deliverable Draft Project Plan

Due Date (No Later Than) 10 days after task order award

Final Project Plan

30 days after task order award

Configuration Management Plan Risk Management Plan

30 days after task order award 30 days after task order award

Monthly Status Reports

Tuesday's beginning the second Tuesday of the month after task order award Tuesdays beginning the second Tuesday of the month after task order award 7 days after meeting
Page 6 of 23

EVM Reports (to be included with the Monthly Status Reports) Meeting Minutes (e.g., Post Award

Deliverable
Kick-Off Meeting and Status

Due Date (No Later Than)

Meetings) The NRC will reserve 10 days to review the draft project plan and provide written comments back to the Contractor.

5. Task 2: Re-Engineering, Migration, Integration, and Implementation Services
The Contractor shall perform the following activities under this task order on a Labor-Hour basis. The Contractor shall perform re-engineering, migration, integration, and implementation of ADAMS applications, interfaces, and business processes from IBM's FileNet Panagon Content Services platform (ADAMS) to IBM's FileNet P8 platform. Migration is defined as the successful transfer of one or more ADAMS application or interface, and/or business processes from its current application platform, CS (source system), to P8 (target system). Re-engineering is defined as taking existing legacy software that has become too expensive to maintain or whose system architecture or implementation are obsolete, and redeveloping it using current software and/or hardware technology. This allows a reengineered application to take advantage and leverage the target platform's features and functions. The Contractor shall provide re-engineering, migration, integration, and implementation services for any of ADAMS' integrated applications, interfaces, and business processes that need to be migrated to the P8 platform (see Section C.6, Integrated Applications and interfaces Dependant on ADAMS). The Contractor shall use the existing NRC applications and interfaces as templates to design and re-engineer replacements. This includes rebuilding any integrated applications and interfaces to meet requirements or creating an interface from the application to the P8 platform. The migration and re-engineering of the applications, interfaces, and business processes shall be performed in phases based on their criticality, availability, usage, etc. The Contractor shall develop a Migration Schedule. The Contractor shall conduct the appropriate testing of the applications, interfaces, and business processes to ensure they will successfully execute on the P8 platform. Deliverables under Task 2 include: Deliverable Migration Schedule Due Date (No Later Than) 60 days after task order award

Complete Migration of applications

No later than 24 months after contract award

Page 7 of 23

6. Task 3: Synchronization of ADAMS Main Libraries
The Contractor shall perform the following activities on a Time-and-Materials (T&M) basis. The Contractor shall support existing Synchronization services. The Contractor shall migrate (transfer) any remaining content from the existing Content Services repositories to the NRC IBM FileNet P8 platform. The Contractor shall synchronize Folders, Official Agency Records, `Other' Documents (e.g., Document Profiles, Document Security, Document Packages, etc.), Packages (an NRC construct similar in nature to a FileNet "Compound Document"), Custom Value Lists, Records Declarations, etc. between the current CS platform and the IBM FileNet P8 platform. Deliverables under Task 3 include: Deliverable Synchronization Support Plan Due Date (No Later Than) 30 days after task order award

Synchronized data

Starting 30 days after task order award - until all CS systems have been decommissioned

7. Task 4: Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of NRC's IBM FileNet Content Services, P8 Suite of Products, ADAMS, and ADAMS Dependent Applications Listed in Table 2 of the IDIQ SOW The Contractor shall perform the following activities under this task order on a T&Mbasis. The Contractor shall provide operations and maintenance services for the Content Services OS (while it remains operational during the migration effort) and the P8 OS, and all associated applications. The Contractor shall provide operations and maintenance services for the suite of IBM FileNet P8 products licensed at NRC including the following: 1. Content Federation Services for Content Services Server 2. Content Integrator 3. Records Crawler Server 4. E-Mail Manager Server 5. MS SharePoint Connector ­ Document Library 6. MS SharePoint Connector ­ Web Part Concurrent 7. P8 Toolkit 8. Records Manager 9. Content Collector 10. FileNet Workplace XT 11. Websphere Applications 12. Rendition Services
Page 8 of 23

13. Business Process Management (BPM) 14. Business Process Framework 15. Omni Find (IBM) 16. Microsoft Office extension The Contractor shall develop and maintain operational procedures as the components and business processes are enhanced and expended, and produce activity logs to document operations and maintenance. The Contractor shall develop and maintain an Operations and Support Plan to include: how support will be provided, system contact personnel, defect reporting and enhancement request strategy, Service Level Agreements (SLA's), defect prioritization and resolution time periods, defect escalation criteria, how to deliver fixes into production outside the scope of an official release. Required activities for O&M include: a) Operating and monitoring individual components of the system. b) Developing and maintaining operational procedures as the components and business processes are enhanced, and produce activity logs to document operations and maintenance. c) Performing the backup and recovery strategy per OIS standard and provide an effective risk mitigation strategy for system components both during migration and in production. d) Installing and configuring software on servers. e) Monitoring, planning for, and updating the necessary components with vendor- issued software patches and upgrades as they become available. f) Ensuring the integrity of the system components as they are integrated with new applications or as these applications are modified over time. g) Monitoring, tracking, and resolving P8 end user inquiries and issues h) Testing - The Contractor shall ensure that software products procured (by the NRC, not the Contractor) and licensed by NRC successfully execute in NRC's enterprise. The Contractor shall develop comprehensive software testing standards and plans for conducting software testing and validation. The Contractor shall develop and maintain a suite of test plans, procedures, and schedules for new deployments and upgrades of all IBM's FileNet P8 suite of products and any non-IBM third party software products. All Contractor testing shall be conducted at NRC headquarters in Rockville, MD. i) Implementation - It is NRC's intent to employ a phased and secure approach to the implementation of IBM's FileNet P8 suite of software products and any non-IBM third party software products procured (by the NRC, not the Contractor). The software shall operate in parallel with the current ADAMS system for a period of time necessary to ensure that all users, catalogues, reports, content, business processes, and applications and interfaces are migrated to the P8 platform. The Contractor shall ensure that minimal business disruption occurs during the transition processes. j) Training - The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Training Plan for select IBM FileNet P8 products licensed at NRC, new business processes developed under this task order, and any non-IBM third party ECM software products procured (by the NRC, not the Contractor) during the period of performance of this task order. k) Help Desk ­ the Contractor shall provide `Tier 2' level support for the IBM FileNet P8 suite of products, the P8 version of ADAMS, and new business processes developed under the task order for an estimated 5,000 users. The `Tier 2' level support shall include providing in-depth technical support by analyzing and resolving user requests for
Page 9 of 23

the IBM FileNet P8 suite of products. The Contractor `Tier 2' support staff shall work closely with the existing NRC ADAMS Help Desk to address user concerns. It is estimated that Contractor `Tier 2' support shall be needed only for the three base years of the task order after which time the NRC ADAMS Help Desk will have gained the required technical knowledge, skills, and ability to resolve P8 user requests on their own. Deliverables under Task 4 include: Deliverable Operations and Support Plan Due Date (Calendar Days) 60 days after award of task order

Test Plans (for new deployments and upgrades of all IBM's FileNet P8 suite of products and any nonIBM third party software) Training Plan (for select IBM FileNet P8 products licensed at NRC, new business processes developed under the contract, and any non-IBM third party ECM software).

90 days after award of task order

90 days after award of task order

8. Task 5: Security
The NRC intends to use another Contractor ("NRC's security Contractor") to serve as the primary developer of deliverables needed for the Security Certification and Accreditation of ADAMS and related systems. The Contractor shall perform the following activities on a Time­and-Materials (T&M) basis. The Contractor shall work with the NRC's security Contractor to provide them the information they need to develop the deliverables required for the Security Certification and Accreditation of ADAMS and related systems.

i. Basic Task Order IT Security Requirements
For unclassified information used for the effort, the Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop an information security categorization document indicating the sensitivity of the information processed as part of this task order if the information security categorization was not provided in the PWS. The determination shall be made using NIST SP 800-60 and must be approved by the Computer Security Office (CSO). The NRC Contracting Officer and Project Officer shall be notified immediately before the Contractor begins to process information at a higher sensitivity level. The Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer and the NRC Project Officer if the Contractor begins to process information at a higher sensitivity level.

Page 10 of 23

If the effort includes use or processing of classified information, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer and Project Officer if the Contractor begins to process *information at a more restrictive classification level. All work under this task order shall comply with the latest versions of the following guidance and standards to include NRC MD 12.5 Automated Information Security Program, and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidance and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), and Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) policy, policy, directives, instructions, and guidance. This information is available at the following links: NRC Policies, Procedures and Standards (Computer Security Office (CSO) internal website): http://www.internal.nrc.gov/CSO/policies.html All NRC MD's (public website): http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/management-directives/ NIST SP and FIPS documentation is located at: http://csrc.nist.gov/ CNSS documents are located at: http://www.cnss.gov/

When e-mail is used, the Contractor shall only use NRC provided e-mail accounts to send and receive sensitive information (information that is not releasable to the public) or mechanisms to protect the information during transmission to NRC that have been approved by the Project Officer. All Contractor personnel must sign the NRC Agency-wide Rules of Behavior for Secure Computer Use prior to being granted access to NRC computing resources. The Contractor shall adhere to NRC policies, including:         MD 12.5, Automated Information Security Program Computer Security Policy for Encryption of Data at Rest When Outside of Agency Facilities Policy for Copying, Scanning, Printing, and Faxing SGI & Classified Information Computer Security Information Protection Policy Remote Access Policy Use of Commercial Wireless Devices, Services and Technologies Policy Laptop Security Policy Computer Security Incident Response Policy

The Contractor shall not use personal devices to process and store NRC sensitive information.

Page 11 of 23

All work performed at non-NRC facilities shall be in facilities, networks, and computers that have been previously certified and accredited by NRC for processing information at the sensitivity level of the information being processed.

ii. Purging of NRC Data from Contractor Systems
The Contractor shall ensure that the NRC data processed during the performance of this task order is purged from all data storage components of the Contractor's computer facility, and the Contractor will shall not retain any NRC data after 30 days of completion of the period of performance for this task order. The Contractor shall notify the Project Officer in writing within 24 hours after determining that one or more Contractor personnel no longer require access to an NRC system Contractor. Such notification shall include the name(s) of Contractor personnel and the NRC system(s) for which they no longer require access. Upon task order completion, the Contractor shall provide a status list to the Project Officer of all Contractor personnel that are still NRC system users and shall note if any of those users still require access to the system(s) to perform work on other contracts or orders that are in place and active at that time.

iii. Access Controls
Any Contractor system being used to process NRC data shall be able to define and enforce access privileges for individual users. The discretionary access controls mechanisms shall be configurable to protect objects (e.g., files, folders) from unauthorized access. The Contractor system being used to process NRC data shall provide only essential capabilities and specifically prohibit and/or restrict the use of specified functions, ports, protocols, and/or services. Contractor personnel shall only use NRC approved methods to send and receive information considered sensitive or classified. Specifically:  Classified Information - All NRC Classified data being transmitted over a network shall use NSA approved encryption and adhere to guidance in NRC MD 12.2 NRC Classified Information Security Program, MD 12.5 NRC Automated Information Security Program and Committee on National Security Systems. Classified processing shall be only within facilities, computers, and spaces that have been specifically approved for classified processing.



SGI Information ­ All SGI being transmitted over a network shall adhere to guidance in MD 12.7 NRC Safeguards Information Security Program and MD 12.5 NRC Automated Information Security Program. SGI processing shall be only within facilities, computers, and spaces that have been specifically approved for SGI processing. Cryptographic modules provided as part of the system shall be validated under the Cryptographic Module Validation Program to conform to NIST FIPS 140-2 overall level 2 and must be operated in FIPS mode. The Contractor shall provide the FIPS 140-2 cryptographic
Page 12 of 23

module certificate number and a brief description of the encryption module that includes the encryption algorithm(s) used, the key length, and the vendor of the product. The most restrictive set of rights/privileges or accesses needed by users (or processes acting on behalf of users) for the performance of specified tasks must be enforced by the system through assigned access authorizations. Separation of duties for Contractor systems used to process NRC information must be enforced by the system through assigned access authorizations. The mechanisms within the Contractor system or application that enforces access control and other security features shall be continuously protected against tampering and/or unauthorized changes.

iv. Configuration Standards
All systems used to process NRC sensitive information shall meet NRC configuration standards available at: http://www.internal.nrc.gov/CSO/standards.html .

v. Media Handling
All media used by the Contractor to store or process NRC information shall be controlled in accordance to the sensitivity level. The Contractor shall not perform sanitization or destruction of media approved for processing NRC information designated as SGI or Classified. The Contractor must provide the media to NRC for destruction.

vi. Vulnerability Management
The Contractor must adhere to NRC patch management processes for all systems used to process NRC information. Patch Management reports will made available to the Contractor upon written request to the Project Officer for following security categorizations and reporting timeframes:    5 calendar days after being requested for a high sensitivity system 10 calendar days after being requested for a moderate sensitivity system 15 calendar days after being requested for a low sensitivity system

For any Contractor system used to process NRC information, the Contractor must ensure that information loaded into the system is scanned for viruses prior to posting; servers are scanned for viruses, adware, and spyware on a regular basis; and virus signatures are updated at the following frequency:   1 calendar day for a high sensitivity system 3 calendar days for a moderate sensitivity system

Page 13 of 23



7 calendar days for a low sensitivity system

vii. Application Security Requirements
The Contractor shall correct errors in Contractor developed software and applicable documentation that are not commercial off-the-shelf which are brought to the attention of the Contractor in writing by the Contracting Officer, Project Officer or the or the Contractor's personnel. The Contractor shall adhere to the guidance outlined in NIST SP 800-53, FIPS 200 and NRC guidance for the identification and documentation of minimum security controls. All development and testing of the systems shall be protected at their assigned system sensitivity level and shall be performed on a network separate and isolated from the NRC operational network. All system computers must be properly configured and hardened according to NRC policies, guidance, and standards and comply with all NRC security policies and procedures as commensurate with the system security categorization.

viii. Access Controls
The Contractor shall not hardcode any passwords into the software unless the password only appears on the server side (e.g. using server-side technology such as ASP, PHP, or JSP). The Contractor shall ensure that the software does not contain undocumented functions and undocumented methods for gaining access to the software or to the computer system on which it is installed. This includes master access keys, back doors, and trapdoors.

ix. Cryptography
The Contractor shall validate cryptographic modules provided as part of the system under the Cryptographic Module Validation Program to conform to NIST FIPS 140-2 and must be operated in FIPS mode. The Contractor shall provide the FIPS 140-2 cryptographic module certificate number and a brief description of the encryption module to the Project Officer that includes the encryption algorithm(s) used, the key length, and the vendor of the product.

x. Control of Hardware and Software
The Contractor shall demonstrate to the Project Officer that all hardware and software meet security requirements prior to being placed into the NRC production environment. The Contractor shall ensure that the development environment is separated from the operational environment using NRC CSO approved controls. The Contractor shall only use licensed software and in-house developed authorized software (including NRC and Contractor developed) on the system and for processing NRC information. Public domain, shareware, or freeware may only be installed by the Contractor after prior written approval is obtained from the Project Officer.

Page 14 of 23

The Contractor shall provide proof of valid software licensing upon request of the Contracting Officer or the Project Officer.

xi. Information Security Training and Awareness Training
The Contractor shall ensure that its personnel (including subcontractors), in performance of the task order, receive Information Technology (IT) security training in their role at the Contractor's expense. The Contractor must provide the NRC written certification that training is complete, along with the title of the course and dates of training as a prerequisite to start of work on the task order. The IT security role and associated type of training course and periodicity required to be completed are as follows: Role Auditor Type of Training Vendor specific operating system and application security training, database security training Vendor specific operating system and application security training, database security training Vendor specific operating system and application security training Required Frequency of Training Prior to appointment and then every three years

IT Functional Manager

Prior to appointment and then every two years Additional system specific training upon a major system update/change Prior to appointment and then every year: ˇ Training in operating system security in the area of responsibility occurs every 2 years ˇ Training in application security in the area of responsibility occurs every 2 years

System Administrator

Information Systems Security Officer

ISSO role specific training (not awareness) provided by a government agency or by a vendor such as SANS Vendor specific operating system and application security training

Prior to appointment and then every year: ˇ Training in the ISSO role occurs every 3 years ˇ Training in operating system security in the area of responsibility occurs every 3 years Training in application security in the area of

ˇ

Page 15 of 23

Role

Type of Training

Required Frequency of Training responsibility occurs every 3 years Prior to appointment and then every 2 years: ˇ Training in database security in the area of responsibility occurs every 2 years Prior to appointment and then every year: ˇ Training in the Network administrator role occurs every 3 years ˇ Training in network security in the area of responsibility occurs every year where network administrator role training does not occur

Database Administrator

Vendor specific database security training

Network Administrator

Network administrator role specific training (not awareness) provided by a government agency or by a vendor such as SANS Network specific security training

IT Managers

Vendor specific operating system and application security training, database security training. Vendor specific operating system and application security training, database security training

Prior to appointment and then every two years Additional system specific training upon a major system update/change Prior to appointment and then every year ˇ Training with system-specific training (ISS LoB or commercial) upon assuming the role, to become biannual with NRC provided training every other year.

IT System Developer

The Contractor must ensure that required refresher training is accomplished in accordance with the required frequency specifically associated with the IT security role.

xii. Auditing
The system (ADAMS and ADAMS integrated applications and interfaces described in Table 2 of the IDIQ SOW) shall be able to create, maintain and protect from modification or unauthorized access or destruction an audit trail of accesses to the objects it protects. The audit data shall be protected so that read access to it is limited to those who are authorized.

Page 16 of 23

The system (ADAMS and ADAMS integrated applications and interfaces described in Table 2 of the IDIQ SOW) shall be able to record the following types of events: use of identification and authentication mechanisms, introduction of objects into a user's address space (e.g., file open, program initiation), deletion of objects, and actions taken by computer operators and system administrators or system security officers and other security relevant events. The system shall be able to audit any override of security controls. The Contractor shall ensure auditing is implemented on the following:        Operating System Application Web Server Web Services Network Devices Database Wireless

The Contractor shall perform audit log reviews daily using automated analysis tools. The Contractor must log at least the following events on systems that process NRC information: a. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. m. n. o. p. q. r. s. t. u. v. Audit all failures Successful logon attempt Failure of logon attempt Permission Changes Unsuccessful File Access Creating users & objects Deletion & modification of system files Registry Key/Kernel changes Startup & shutdown Authentication Authorization/permission granting Actions by trusted users Process invocation Controlled access to data by individually authenticated user Unsuccessful data access attempt Data deletion Data transfer Application configuration change Application of confidentiality or integrity labels to data Override or modification of data labels or markings Output to removable media Output to a printer

xiii. Certification and Accreditation 1. Security Risk Assessment

Page 17 of 23

The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC [Project Officer in performing Risk Assessment activities according to NRC policy, standards, and guidance. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to perform Risk Assessment activities that include analyzing how the architecture implements the NRC documented security policy for the system, assessing how management, operational, and technical security control features are planned or implemented and how the system interconnects to other systems or networks while maintaining security.

2. System Security Plan
The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop the system security plan (SSP) according to NRC policy, standards, and guidance to define the implementation of IT security controls necessary to meet both the functional assurance and security requirements. The Contractor will coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to ensure that all controls required to be implemented are documented in the SSP.

3. Assessment Procedures ­ Security Test & Evaluation
The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to follow NRC policy, standards, and guidance for execution of the test procedures. These procedures shall be supplemented and augmented by tailored test procedures based on the control objective as it applies to NRC. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to include verification and validation to ensure that appropriate corrective action was taken on identified security weaknesses. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop perform ST&E activities, including but not limited to, coordinating the ST&E and developing the ST&E Plan, execution ST&E test cases and documentation of test results. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to prepare the Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) based on the ST&E results.

4. Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) Maintenance & Reporting
The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to provide a determination on whether the implemented corrective action was adequate to resolve the identified information security weaknesses and provide the reasons for any exceptions or risked-based decisions. The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to document any vulnerabilities indicating which portions of the security control have not been implemented or applied. The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop and implement solutions that provide a means of planning and monitoring corrective actions; define roles and responsibilities for risk mitigation; assist in identifying security funding requirements; track and prioritize resources; and inform decision-makers of progress of open POA&M items.

Page 18 of 23

The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop perform verification of IT security weaknesses to ensure that all weaknesses identified through third party (e.g., OIG) audits are included in the POA&Ms that the quarterly reporting to OMB is accurate, and the reasons for any exceptions or risked-based decisions are reasonable and clearly documented. This verification process will be done in conjunction with the continuous monitoring activities.

5. Certification & Accreditation Documentation
The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to create, update maintain all Certification and Accreditation (C&A) documentation in accordance with the following NRC Certification and Accreditation procedures and guidance:    C&A Non-SGI Unclassified Systems C&A SGI Unclassified Systems C&A Classified Systems

Contractor must coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop contingency plan and ensure annual contingency testing is completed within one year of previous test and provide an updated security plan and test report according to NRC's policy and procedure. Contractor must coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to conduct annual security control testing according to NRC's policy and procedure and update POA&M, SSP, etc. to reflect any findings or changes to management, operational and technical controls. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to perform, document and report to NRC management the results of continuous monitoring activities which include to the following: assessment of selected security controls, configuration management, security impact analysis on changes, C&A documentation updates. The Contractor shall coordinate with the Project Officer to provide them the information they need to meet the Continuous Monitoring requirements identified in NIST Special Publication 800-37. The Contractor shall coordinate with the NRC Project Officer to provide them the information they need to develop the FISMA/ National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) required C&A documentation. The system (ADAMS and ADAMS integrated applications and interfaces described in Table 2 of the IDIQ SOW) shall meet content security requirements as well as U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) 5015.2-STD Electronic Recordkeeping System compliance requirements.

9. Instructions for Task Order Deliverables
The Contractor shall submit each task order deliverable to the Project Officer for review. The Project Officer shall have 10 days to review each draft deliverable and in writing to the Contractor with comments or indication of approval of the draft deliverable as the final deliverable. If the Project Officer does not provide written comments to the Contractor at the

Page 19 of 23

end of 10 days, the Contractor shall assume the deliverable has been accepted as the final deliverable. If revisions to a draft deliverable are required based on written comments received from the Project Officer, the Contractor has 5 days to complete the revisions and submit the revised draft deliverable to the Project Officer for their review. The Project Officer reserves 5 days to determine acceptability of the revised draft deliverable or to provide written comments back to the Contractor for further revisions. For each deliverable (draft and final), the Contractor shall provide one (1) electronic version of the deliverable via e-mail to the NRC Project Officer. All Contractor deliverables and supporting documentation gathered or provided under this task order may not be stored on any device or piece of equipment that has not been approved in writing by the Project Officer. All Contractor deliverables under this task order shall be: a. Free of formatting and spelling errors, be clearly written, and have no incomplete sections. b. Submitted in electronic format and shall be free of computer viruses. If a virus is found, the deliverable will not be accepted. The replacement file shall be provided within two (2) business days after notification of the presence of a virus or defect. c. "Plain English" written in language that can be understood by a non-technical layperson. Statistical and other technical terms used in the deliverable shall be defined in a glossary. d. Formatted in Microsoft Word (version 2003 or later). The Project Plan must be formatted in Microsoft Project (version 2003 or later). e. Timely, thorough, and accurate. Accompanied by a cover letter from the Contractor on company letterhead. Multiple deliverables may be delivered with a single cover letter describing the contents of the complete package.

10. Period of Performance
The period of performance for this task order is 1 year, beginning on the next business day after task order award.

11. Government Provided Space
The place of performance is at the government site, NRC's King of Prussia Facility, King of Prussia, PA and NRC Headquarters, Rockville, MD. The NRC will provide a fully functional office environment for Contractor personnel within NRC's facilities located in Region I and NRC Headquarters. Within this office space, the NRC will
Page 20 of 23

provide desktop workstations with all software needed to perform the work specified under this task order. The NRC will also provide two telephones and access to computer printing and photo copying equipment. NRC Headquarters One White Flint North 11555 Rockville Pike Rockville, MD 20852-2738 or Two White Flint North 11545 Rockville Pike Rockville, MD 20852-2738

12. Reimbursement for Contractor Travel Costs
The Contractor will be reimbursed for reasonable domestic travel costs incurred during the performance of this task order for the purpose of providing support under this task order. Reimbursement for such travel costs would be in accordance with FAR Subpart 31.205-46, Travel costs. The Contractor shall provide a copy of the receipt for each individual travel cost that exceeds $75.00 with their invoice for those travel costs, as well as a detailed breakdown of those travel costs. The Contractor shall not incur any travel costs without first obtaining written approval from the roject Officer. Contracvtor performance under this task order may require travel to NRC's four regional offices located in: U.S. NRC Region I 475 Allendale Road King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415 U.S. NRC Region II Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center, 23 T85 61 Forsyth Street, SW Atlanta, GA 30303-8931 U.S. NRC Region III 2443 Warrenville Road Suite 210 Lisle, Illinois 60532-4352 U.S. NRC Region IV Texas Health Resources Tower 612 E. Lamar Blvd., Suite 400 Arlington, TX 76011-4125

Page 21 of 23

13. Meetings
Face to face meetings between the Contractor and the Government under this task order shall be held at NRC Headquarters in Rockville, MD. When possible and at the Project Officer's discretion, meetings will be conducted via teleconference or videoconference.

a. Project Kick-Off (Post-Award) Meeting
Within seven days of task order award, the Contractor shall convene a project kick-off meeting with the Project Officer (and their designees) and Contractor personnel working on this task order. Activities for this meeting shall include     A confirmation of the Project's objectives A submission and discussion of a draft high level Baseline Project Plan and Project Approach Summary An identification of key points of contact A discussion of project related administrative and logistical processes.

b. Weekly Meetings
The Contractor shall meet with the Project Officer on a weekly basis for the purpose of clearly articulating the project's status and to address any questions or concerns the NRC might have.

c. Ad-Hoc Meetings
The Contractor shall be available to attend Ad-Hoc meetings requested by the Project Officer. The Contractor will be given 24 hours written notice before an Ad-Hoc Meeting will be held.

14. Weekly Progress Reports
The Contractor shall provide a weekly written progress report to the Project Officer that addresses the following:   Status (on schedule, behind schedule) Amount of Task order ceiling for T&M tasks expended used during the prior weekm broken down by (a) labor and, if applicable, (b) materials and (c) travel costs.Completed activities (includes list of deliverables submitted to the Project Officer for review) Ongoing Activities Planned activities. Identified Issues and Risks

  

Page 22 of 23

The weekly progress reports will be due to the Project Officer by 5:00 pm Eastern Time each Monday. If Monday is a federal holiday, the report will be due by 5:00pm Eastern Time on the next business day.

Page 23 of 23


ADDENDUM C TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS

                                            Performance Measurement Metric (PMM) for First Task Order

NOTE TO OFFERORS â The Offeror shall complete this Attachment and submit it with the Technical Approach and Management Plan portion of their
proposal.  This Attachment may be negotiated between the Contracting Officer and the Offeror, and the final version of it would be incorporated
into the resultant IDIQ contract upon award and subsequently used to monitor Contractor Performance.Contract Requirement:

        1. Required Service Requirements:  This plan defines the performance standards/quality levels that the
      Contractor agrees to satisfy in the performance of the following:


        2. Performance Standards:


        The Offeror shall identify the applicable performance standard(s) for each contract requirement.

        3. Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL)

        The Offeror shall identify a minimum acceptable quality level for each identified performance standard


        4. method of Government Surveillance /Evaluation

        The Offeror shall describe how the Government would perform surveillance of Contractor performance to determine if each AQL is met


        5. IncentiveS/DISINCENTIVES:


        In this column, Offerors shall describe nonmonetary incentives and disincentives for exceeding each specified AQL (incentives) or failing
        to exceed meet each AQL (disincentive) .



        ADDENDUM C â CONTINUED

                                                    Performance Measurement Metric Objectives
|Required Service for First Task Order          |Standard                                  |Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)  |Method of Surveillance          |Nonmonetary                        |
|(Performance Requirements)                     |(Performance Standard)                    |(Performance Metric)            |(Quality Assurance)             |Incentives/De-incentives           |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |
|                                               |                                          |                                |                                |                                   |







ADDENDUM D TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS 

AWARD TERM PLAN 1.0 INTRODUCTION

This Award Term Plan ("Plan") identifies responsibilities and methods used to monitor and evaluate ADAMS Contractor performance for the purpose of awarding additional periods of performance (award term extensions). The NRC requires top-level performance to meet program requirements. This Plan is designed to provide incentive to the Contractor for outstanding performance which benefits the NRC. The NRC recognizes that establishing an effective relationship between the contractor and Government is an essential prerequisite of outstanding performance. To facilitate an effective relationship, the Government and Contractor will cooperate in developing the essential elements of this Plan. The Offeror shall propose a Performance Measurement Metric (PMM) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to be submitted with their offer. The Offeror shall propose a satisfactory level with each metric in the PMM. The Government and the successful Offeror will negotiate the elements and performance levels contained in the offeror's PMM, and the PMM will be incorporated into the resulting IDIQ contract. In addition to the elements contained in the PMM, the Government and the Contractor will negotiate achieving Small Business Subcontracting Plan goals, cost control, responsiveness and business relationship, the performance of which shall be used as part of this Plan. The intent of this Plan is to establish procedures for the evaluation of Contractor performance under the IDIQ contract by furnishing guidelines and procedures for: (1) evaluating the Contractor's performance during each IDIQ contract year; and (2) furnishing sufficient data to enable the Award Term Approving Official to determine whether an award term will be granted. 2.0 GENERAL

Through this Plan, NRC seeks to provide incentives for the Contractor to perform at a level NRC considers better than satisfactory. An Award Term will only be exercised if overall Contractor performance during the then-current IDIQ contract year is evaluated by NRC to be at a level greater than satisfactory in meeting contractual requirements. 3.0 PERFORMANCE AWARD TERM REVIEW TEAM 3.1 Organization

The organization of the Team is described in the following paragraphs. 3.1.1 Award Term Approving Official. The Award Term Approving Official is the Deputy Director of the NRC Office of Information Services (OIS). The Deputy Director may delegate this function to another in OIS. 3.1.2 Performance Award Term Review Team. The Award Term Approving
1   

ADDENDUM D TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS 

Official will appoint an Award Term Review Team ("Team") to evaluate the Contractor's IDIQ contract performance during the then-current IDIQ contract year. The Award Term Approving Official may appoint a Chairman to the Team or the Award Term Approving Official may serve as the Chairman. The team members will ensure a fair and accurate assessment of the contractor's performance for the period being evaluated. The Team Chairman may also use nonvoting advisors as necessary. 3.2 Duties of the Team.

The duties of the Team are as follows: 3.2.1 Implement the plan and propose timely modifications to the Plan if required, throughout the period of contract performance. 3.2.2 Evaluate contractor performance for each performance evaluation period. 3.2.3 Prepare and submit to the Award Term Approving Official a written evaluation of the Contractor's performance. 3.3 Responsibilities.

3.3.1 Award Term Approving Official. Approves the Plan and the evaluation factors and scoring methodology. Approves the composition of the Team. Determines the Contractor performance rating for a given IDIQ contract year and whether an Award Term period will be granted based on the factors of the plan. 3.3.2 Team Chairman. Structures the Team membership to provide representation that reflects all appropriate aspects of contract performance and provides membership to adequately assess contractor performance for the period being evaluated. Conducts the evaluation under this Plan. Schedules Team meetings and serves as a recorder at these meetings. Leads the Team in developing a consensus evaluation and in resolving significant differences in ratings. Provides brief summary documentation for the Award Term Approving Official. May provide feedback to the Contractor, through the Contracting Officer, in order to focus the Contractor on areas that would lead to improved performance in subsequent periods. 3.3.3 Performance Award Term Review Team. Monitors and evaluates Contractor performance for the period under consideration, utilizing the factors set forth in the Plan. Makes written evaluations, completes the evaluation worksheets (Award Term Evaluation Form - see attachment) and formulates award term recommendations. Briefs the Award Term Approving Official on evaluations, when requested, and provides supporting data/documentation to support the assessment of performance. Prepares the evaluation report and accompanying narrative justification. Identifies potential improvement areas and areas of emphasis for the next succeeding evaluation period to the Team Chairman for later Contractor debriefing. 3.3.4 Contracting Officer. Prepares and distributes contract modifications
2   

ADDENDUM D TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS 

awarding the Award Term authorized by the Award Term Approving Official. Maintains NRC documentation relating to this Plan as part of the official contract file. Documents the basis for the Award Term decision rendered by the Award Term Approving Official in the contract file. Informs the Contractor in writing of annual Award Term evaluation results and Award Term decision. 4.0 PROCEDURES FOR AWARD TERM EVALUATION PERIODS 4.1 Procedures for Award Term Evaluation Periods

Step 1. The Contractor will submit a brief written self-evaluation of its performance within 10 days after the end of the evaluation period. The self-evaluation report shall not exceed 7 pages, and may/will be considered in the Award Term Review Board's (ATRB's) (or Term Determining Official's) evaluation of the Contractor's performance during this period. Step 2. Team members shall individually initiate their evaluation worksheets (Award Term Evaluation Form) within 3 days after the end of each evaluation period. Informational sessions will be conducted at the end of year-one of the base year. The first official Award Term evaluation for eligibility will be conducted at the end of year-two of the base year and again at the end of Option Period 1. Evaluations will be completed within 10 days after the end of each evaluation period and completed worksheets will be submitted to the Team Chairman (if one is appointed) or Award Term Approving Official. Team members shall be prepared to brief their evaluations to the Chairman if necessary. Step 3. The Team will develop a consensus evaluation of Contractor performance in the appropriate areas for the then-current IDIQ contract period, using the factors set forth in the plan. The Team shall review all evaluation material along with supporting documentation and may call additional technical and management advisors to provide supporting information as required. Recommendations of the Team, together with Contractor self evaluation and other supporting justifications, shall be presented to the Award Term Approving Official for final decision no later than 20 days from the end of each evaluation period. Evaluation activities need to be completed at a point no later than 30 days after the end of each evaluation period to ensure that the Award Term Approving Official's decision is announced no later than 90 days after the period being evaluated. Step 4. No later than 30 days after the Award Term Approving Official receives the Team's recommendations, the Award Term Approving Official shall make a determination of the Contractor's evaluation rating for the applicable evaluation period. A brief summary narrative report highlighting Contractor strengths and weaknesses shall be prepared. The written announcement to the Contracting Officer of Award Term Approving Official's decision will be made no later than 60 days after the end of each evaluation period. Step 5. Within 30 days after receiving the Award Term Approving Official decision, the Contracting Officer shall forward to the Contractor the evaluation results. The Contracting Officer shall forward the notice to the contractor not later 90 days after the end of the applicable
3   

ADDENDUM D TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS 

evaluation period and the modification adding the award term entitlement will follow as soon as practicable following the notification.

Step 6. Prior to Contractor commencement of work under an Award Term period, the Contracting Officer will issue a modification to the IDIQ contract to authorize the Award Term then negotiate and award task order(s), if any are required and funding is available. 5.0 OPPORTUNITY TO ADJUST PERFORMANCE METRICS

5.1. Adjusting Performance Rating Bilateral changes may be made to the award term plan at any time. It is possible that actual performance will reveal that the negotiated levels are either too easy or too difficult to attain. The Contractor and Contracting Officer will negotiate the satisfactory and higher levels of performance ratings. The values may be renegotiated at the request of either party. If an agreement cannot be made within 60 days, the Government reserves the right to set the values unilaterally in the event an agreement is not reached. 5.2. Modification of Performance Measurement Metrics The Contractor's PMM is a living document. The parties recognize that performance elements may be added or deleted during the life of the contract. New or revised performance elements will be considered to be incorporated into this Plan when the elements are incorporated into the Contractor's PMM.

4   


                                                        LIST OF CONTRACTS SIMILAR IN SCOPE


      |                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|1. Firm Name & Address:                                         |2. Year Firm Established:                                    |3. Date Prepared:                                              |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|5. Principal Points of Contact:   (List two by Name/Title/Current Telephone Number)                                                                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|6. Present Offices: (Address/Telephone)                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|7. Past Performance Last 3 Years                                                                                                                                                              |
|(1) List Contracts Similar in Size (Dollars) and Scope; (2) List Contracts Similar in Scope Only                                                                                              |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirements: |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|Contract No:                                                    |Contracting Contact Name & Phone:                            |Brief Description and How it is Similar to NRC(s Requirement:  |
|Period of Performance:                                          |                                                             |                                                               |
|Dollar Value:                                                   |                                                             |                                                               |
|Name of Gov./Commercial Entity:                                 |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                |Technical Rep. Name & Phone:                                 |                                                               |
|                                                                |                                                             |                                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|The foregoing is a statement of facts                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|Signature: ____________________________________________ Title: ______________________   Date: _______________                                                                                 |

ADDENDUM F TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR LABOR HOUR/TIME AND MATERIALS TYPE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)

General: During performance and through final payment of this contract, the contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of data within the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete CCR data. The contractor shall prepare vouchers/invoices as prescribed herein. FAILURE TO SUBMIT VOUCHERS/INVOICES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE INSTRUCTIONS WILL RESULT IN REJECTION OF THE VOUCHER/INVOICE AS IMPROPER. Form: Claims shall be submitted on the payee's letterhead, voucher/invoice, or on the Government's Standard Form 1034, "Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal," and Standard Form 1035, "Public Voucher for Purchases Other than Personal-Continuation Sheet." Number of Copies: A signed original shall be submitted. If the voucher/invoice includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original is also required. Designated Agency Billing Office: The preferred method of submitting vouchers/invoices is electronically to the Department of the Interior at NRCPayments@nbc.gov If the voucher/invoice includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original shall be electronically sent to: Property@nrc.gov However, if you submit a hard-copy of the voucher/invoice, it shall be submitted to the following address: Department of the Interior National Business Center Attn: Fiscal Services Branch - D2770 7301 West Mansfield Avenue Denver, CO 80235-2230 If you submit a hard-copy of the voucher/invoice and it includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original shall be mailed to the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRC Property Management Officer Mail Stop: O-4D15 Washington, DC 20555-0001 HAND-CARRIED SUBMISSIONS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED Agency Payment Office: Payment will continue to be made by the office designated in the contract in Block 12 of Standard Form 26, Block 25 of Standard Form 33, or Block 18a. of Standard Form 1449, whichever is applicable.

Page 1 of 4

ADDENDUM F TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR LABOR HOUR/TIME AND MATERIALS TYPE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)
Frequency: The contractor shall submit claims for reimbursement once each month, unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer. Format: Claims shall be submitted in the format depicted on the attached sample form entitled "Voucher/Invoice for Purchases and Services Other than Personal" (see Attachment 1). The sample format is provided for guidance only. The format is not required for submission of a voucher/invoice. Alternate formats are permissible provided all requirements of the billing instructions are addressed. Billing of Cost after Expiration of Contract: If costs are incurred during the contract period and claimed after the contract has expired, you must cite the period during which these costs were incurred. To be considered a proper expiration voucher/invoice, the contractor shall clearly mark it "EXPIRATION VOUCHER" or "EXPIRATION INVOICE". Final vouchers/invoices shall be marked "FINAL VOUCHER" or "FINAL INVOICE". Currency: Billings may be expressed in the currency normally used by the contractor in maintaining his accounting records and payments will be made in that currency. However, the U.S. dollar equivalent for all vouchers/invoices paid under the contract may not exceed the total U.S. dollars authorized in the contract. Supersession: These instructions supersede invoice/billing instructions in clauses 52.212-4 and 52.212-4 Alternate I.

Page 2 of 4

ADDENDUM F TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR LABOR HOUR/TIME AND MATERIALS TYPE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008) INVOICE/VOUCHER FOR PURCHASES AND SERVICES OTHER THAN PERSONAL (SAMPLE FORMAT - COVER SHEET)
1. Official Agency Billing Office Department of the Interior National Business Center Attn: Fiscal Services Branch - D2770 7301 West Mansfield Avenue Denver, CO 80235-2230 2. Voucher Information a. Payee's DUNS Number or DUNS+4. The Payee shall include the Payee's Data Universal Number (DUNS) or DUNS+4 number that identifies the Payee's name and address. The DUNS+4 number is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the Payee to identify alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts for the same parent concern. b. Payee's Name and Address. Show the name of the Payee as it appears in the contract and its correct address. If the Payee assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Payee shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database at http://www.ccr.gov and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this contract. See Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.232-33(g) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (October 2003). c. Contract Number. Insert the NRC contract number. d. Voucher/Invoice. The appropriate sequential number of the voucher/invoice, beginning with 001 should be designated. Contractors may also include an individual internal accounting number, if desired, in addition to the 3-digit sequential number. e. Date of Voucher/Invoice. Insert the date the voucher/invoice is prepared. f. Billing period. Insert the beginning and ending dates (day, month, and year) of the period during which costs were incurred and for which reimbursement is claimed. g. Required Attachments (Supporting Documentation). Direct Costs. The contractor shall submit as an attachment to its invoice/voucher cover sheet a listing of labor categories, hours billed, fixed hourly rates, total dollars, and cumulative hours billed to date under each labor category authorized under the contract/purchase order for each of the activities to be performed under the contract/purchase order. The contractor shall include incurred costs for: (1) travel, (2) materials, including non-capitalized equipment and supplies, (3) capitalized nonexpendable equipment, (4) materials handling fee, (5) consultants (supporting information must include the name, hourly or daily rate of the consultant, and reference the NRC approval), and (6) subcontracts (include separate detailed breakdown of all costs paid to approved subcontractors during the billing period) with the required supporting documentation, as well as the cumulative total of each cost, billed to date by activity.

Page 3 of 4

ADDENDUM F TO RFP NRC3310ADAMS BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR LABOR HOUR/TIME AND MATERIALS TYPE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)
3. Definitions a. Non-capitalized Equipment, Materials, and Supplies. These are equipment other than that described in number (4) below, plus consumable materials, supplies. List by category. List items valued at $1,000 or more separately. Provide the item number for each piece of equipment valued at $1,000 or more. b. Capitalized Non Expendable Equipment. List each item costing $50,000 or more and having a life expectancy of more than one year. List only those items of equipment for which reimbursement is requested. For each such item, list the following (as applicable): (a) the item number for the specific piece of equipment listed in the property schedule of the contract; or (b) the Contracting Officer's approval letter if the equipment is not covered by the property schedule. c. Material handling costs. When included as part of material costs, material handling costs shall include only costs clearly excluded from the labor-hour rate. Material handling costs may include all appropriate indirect costs allocated to direct materials in accordance with the contractor's usual accounting procedures.

Sample Voucher Information (Supporting Documentation must be attached) This voucher/invoice represents reimbursable costs for the billing period from through . Amount Billed Current Period Cumulative
(f) Direct Costs: (1) Direct Labor (2) Travel (3) Materials (4) Equipment (5) Materials Handling Fee (6) Consultants (7) Subcontracts $___________ $___________ $___________ $___________ $___________ $___________ $___________ $_________ $_________ $_________ $_________ $_________ $_________ $_________

Total Direct Costs:

$___________

$_________

Page 4 of 4

ATTACHMENT G BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)
General: During performance and through final payment of this contract, the contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of data within the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete CCR data. The contractor shall prepare vouchers/invoices as prescribed herein. FAILURE TO SUBMIT VOUCHERS/INVOICES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE INSTRUCTIONS WILL RESULT IN REJECTION OF THE VOUCHER/INVOICE AS IMPROPER. Form: Claims shall be submitted on the payee's letterhead, voucher/invoice, or on the Government's Standard Form 1034, "Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal," and Standard Form 1035, "Public Voucher for Purchases Other than Personal-Continuation Sheet." Number of Copies: A signed original shall be submitted. If the voucher/invoice includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original is also required. Designated Agency Billing Office: The preferred method of submitting vouchers/invoices is electronically to the Department of the Interior at NRCPayments@nbc.gov If the voucher/invoice includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original shall be electronically sent to: Property@nrc.gov However, if you submit a hard-copy of the voucher/invoice, it shall be submitted to the following address: Department of the Interior National Business Center Attn: Fiscal Services Branch - D2770 7301 West Mansfield Avenue Denver, CO 80235-2230 If you submit a hard-copy of the voucher/invoice and it includes the purchase of any property with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more, a copy of the signed original shall be mailed to the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRC Property Management Officer Mail Stop: O-4D15 Washington, DC 20555-0001 HAND-CARRIED SUBMISSIONS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED

Page 1 of 3

ATTACHMENT C BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)
Agency Payment Office: Payment will continue to be made by the office designated in the contract in Block 12 of the Standard Form 26, Block 25 of the Standard Form 33, or Block 18a. of the Standard Form 1449, whichever is applicable. Frequency: The contractor shall submit a voucher/invoice only after the NRC's final acceptance of services rendered or products delivered in performance of the contract unless otherwise specified in the contract. Preparation and Itemization of the Voucher/Invoice: The voucher/invoice shall be prepared in ink or by typewriter (without strike-overs). Corrections or erasures must be initialed. To be considered a proper voucher/invoice, all of the following elements must be included: 1. Contractor's Data Universal Number (DUNS) or DUNS+4 number that identifies the contractor's name and address. The DUNS+4 number is the DUNS number plus a 4character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the contractor to identify alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts for the same parent concern. Contract number. Sequential voucher/invoice number. Date of voucher/invoice. Payee's name and address. Show the name of the Payee as it appears in the contract and its correct address. If the Payee assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Payee shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database at http://www.ccr.gov and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this contract. See Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.232-33(g) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (October 2003). A description of articles or services, quantity, unit price, and total amount. For contractor acquired property, list each item with an initial acquisition cost of $50,000 or more and provide: (1) an item description, (2) manufacturer, (3) model number, (4) serial number, (5) acquisition cost, (6) date of purchase, and (7) a copy of the purchasing document. Weight and zone of shipment, if shipped by parcel post. Charges for freight or express shipments. Attach prepaid bill if shipped by freight or express. Instructions to consignee to notify the Contracting Officer of receipt of shipment.

2. 3. 4. 5.

6. 7.

8. 9.

10.

Page 2 of 3

ATTACHMENT G BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS (JUNE 2008)
11. For Indefinite Delivery contracts or contracts under which progress payments are authorized, the final voucher/invoice shall be marked "FINAL VOUCHER" OR "FINAL INVOICE."

Currency: Billings may be expressed in the currency normally used by the contractor in maintaining his accounting records and payments will be made in that currency. However, the U.S. dollar equivalent for all vouchers/invoices paid under the contract may not exceed the total U.S. dollars authorized in the contract. Supersession: These instructions supersede any previous billing instructions.

Page 3 of 3

SAVE
NRC FORM 187 (1-2000)
NRCMD 12

GO TO INSTRUCTIONS
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

PRINT FORM
AUTHORITY The policies, procedures, and criteria of the NRC Security Program, NRCMD 12, apply to performance of this contract, subcontract or other activity.

CONTRACT SECURITY AND/OR CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
A. CONTRACT NUMBER FOR COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS OR JOB CODE FOR DOE PROJECTS (Prime contract number must be shown for all subcontracts.)

COMPLETE CLASSIFIED ITEMS BY SEPARATE CORRESPONDENCE 2. TYPE OF SUBMISSION
A. ORIGINAL B. REVISED (Supersedes all previous submissions) C. OTHER (Specify)

1. CONTRACTOR NAME AND ADDRESS

B. PROJECTED START DATE

C. PROJECTED COMPLETION DATE

3. FOR FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT, ENTER PRECEDING CONTRACT NUMBER AND PROJECTED COMPLETION DATE
A. DOES NOT APPLY B. CONTRACT NUMBER DATE

4. PROJECT TITLE AND OTHER IDENTIFYING INFORMATION

5. PERFORMANCE WILL REQUIRE
A. ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED MATTER OR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
YES NO

(If "YES," answer 1-7 below) (If "NO," proceed to 5.C.)

NOT APPLICABLE

NATIONAL SECURITY SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTED DATA SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

1.

ACCESS TO FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION RECEIPT, STORAGE, OR OTHER SAFEGUARDING OF CLASSIFIED MATTER. (See 5.B.) GENERATION OF CLASSIFIED MATTER. ACCESS TO CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL OR OTHER CLASSIFIED COMSEC INFORMATION ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED MATTER OR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCESSED BY ANOTHER AGENCY. CLASSIFIED USE OF AN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROCESSING SYSTEM. OTHER (Specify)
YES NO

2.

3.
4. 5. 6.

7.
B..

IS FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED?

C. D. E. F.

UNESCORTED ACCESS IS REQUIRED TO PROTECTED AND VITAL AREAS OF NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS. ACCESS IS REQUIRED TO UNCLASSIFIED SAFEGUARDS INFORMATION. ACCESS IS REQUIRED TO SENSITIVE IT SYSTEMS AND DATA UNESCORTED ACCESS TO NRC HEADQUARTERS BUILDING.

FOR PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS ON PROVIDING TEMPORARY AND FINAL APPROVAL FOR UNESCORTED ACCESS, REFER TO NRCMD 12.

NRC FORM 187 (1-2000)

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

GO TO INSTRUCTIONS
6.

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THESE REQUIREMENTS OR THIS PROJECT, EVEN THOUGH SUCH INFORMATION IS CONSIDERED UNCLASSIFIED, SHALL NOT BE RELEASED FOR DISSEMINATION EXCEPT AS APPROVED BY: SIGNATURE DATE

NAME AND TITLE

7. CLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE
NATURE OF CLASSIFIED GUIDANCE IDENTIFICATION OF CLASSIFICATION GUIDES

8. CLASSIFIED REVIEW OF CONTRACTOR / SUBCONTRACTOR REPORT(S) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS WILL BE CONDUCTED BY:
AUTHORIZD CLASSIFIER (Name and Title) DIVISION OF FACILITIES AND SECURITY

9. REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION OF NRC FORM 187 Check appropriate box(es)
SPONSORING NRC OFFICE OR DIVISION (Item 10A) DIVISION OF FACILITIES AND SECURITY (Item 10 B) DIVISION OF CONTRACTS AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR (Item 1)

SECURITY/CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBCONTRACTS RESULTING FROM THIS CONTRACT WILL BE APPROVED BY THE OFFICIALS NAMED IN ITEMS 10B AND 10C BELOW.

10. APPROVALS
SECURITY/CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBCONTRACTS RESULTING FROM THIS CONTRACT WILL BE APPROVED BY THE OFFICIALS NAMED IN ITEMS 10B AND 10C BELOW.

NAME (Print or type)
A DIRECTOR, OFFICE OR DIVISION SIGNATURE

SIGNATURE
DATE

DATE

B. DIRECTOR, DIVISION OF FACILITIES AND SECURITY

SIGNATURE

DATE

C. DIRECTOR, DIVISION OF CONTRACTS AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (Not applicable to DOE aggrements)

SIGNATURE

DATE

REMARKS

GO TO FORM

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING NRC FORM 187

NRC Form 187, "Contract Security and/or Classification Requirements," including attachments and supplements, furnishes the basis for providing security and classification requirements to contractors, subcontractors or others (e.g., bidders) who have or may have an NRC contractual relationship which requires access to classified information or matter, for unescorted access to nuclear power plants, access to Unclassified Safeguards Information, access to sensitive IT systems or data and/or access to NRC Headquarters buildings. WHO USES NRC FORM 187: All organizations which have or may have an NRC contractual relationship of the nature set forth above. WHEN TO USE: Responsibility for initiation of NRC Form 187 rests with the office or division sponsoring a contract, project, or consultant, or requesting that such work be conducted (e.g., at a Department of Energy (DOE) National Laboratory) Early preparation and submission of this form will help assure that all necessary classification and security actions are completed prior to contract award. Experience has shown that incomplete information or untimely submission delays both the security and contractual process. WHERE TO SEND: Send two (2) copies of this form to the NRC Division of Contracts and Property Management (DCPM) with the Request for Procurement Action (NRC Form 400), when the interest does not involve a DOE security interest or consultant obtained through the Office of Human Resources. If the interest involves a DOE National Laboratory or consultant and does not require action by DCPM, forward one (1) copy of the form directly to the Division of Facilities and Security. PREPARATION: Items are keyed to the numbered items on NRC Form 187. 1. 2. 3.
4. 5.A.

Identify contractor, contract number, JOB CODE, or other identifying number(s). Check either 2.A, B, or C as appropriate. If NRC Form 187 is not for a follow-on contract, check block "Does Not Apply." If it is for a follow-on contract, enter preceding contract identification number from which this contract evolves and its actual or anticipated completion date. Include project title and a brief unclassified statement setting forth sufficient information to identify the nature of the project. Check the appropriate box in each column with the highest level of classified matter under National Security Information and Restricted Data, to which access is required. Check "NA" for any items which are not applicable. Completion of this section should be coordinated with the sponsoring Office Authorized Classifier as well as the Project Manager to assure complete and accurate information. Indicate if a contractor must access, store or handle classified information at contractor facility. Indicate if unescorted access is required to protected and vital areas of nuclear power plants. Indicate if access is required to Unclassified Safeguards Information. Indicate if access is required to sensitive IT systems or data. Indicate if unescorted access is required to NRC Headquarters building. Contractors listed in item 1 will submit proposed releases to DCPM for approval prior to release. Subcontractors shall be instructed to submit proposed releases through the prime contractor listed in item 1 to DCPM. If 5.A. is yes, indicate the nature of classification guidance/identification of classification guides. When the block "Nature of Classification Guidance" is used, identify the areas of classified information involved and, in particular, provide adequate unclassified narrative comment to describe specific items of information within these areas which may require classification guidance.

5.B. 5.C. 5.D. 5.E. 5.F. 6. 7.

8. 9. 9.A. 10.

Furnish name and title of position of authorized classifier if Division of Facilities and Security is not checked. The DCPM will assure distribution of this document to all responsible organizations when completed. After approval, the sponsoring office will assure distribution of this document for DOE aggrements. (Not applicable to DOE agreements) The sponsoring office should obtain the signatures required in Boxes 10A and 10B before submitting it to DCPM.

Additional comments relating to any of the items may be included under "Remarks", to assure that reviewers evaluate the information properly.
NRC FORM 187 (1-2000) PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NO.

1. REQUISITION NO.

PAGE 1 OF

69

00-00-00
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER 6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

NRC3310ADAMS
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NO. (No Collect Calls)

05-25-2010
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME 06-30-2010

Pearlette Merriweather
CODE

301-492-3614
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

3100

U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Div. of Contracts Attn: Mail Stop: TWB-01-B10M Washington, DC 20555
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X

UNRESTRICTED OR

SET ASIDE:

% FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

SMALL BUSINESS NAICS: 541519 SIZE STANDARD: HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

8(A)

N/A

N/A
14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB

X
CODE

RFP

3100

16. ADMINISTERED BY

3100

U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Div of Contracts - CMB3 Attn: Pearlette Merriweather Mail Stop: TWB-01-B10M Washington DC 20555
17a. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Div. of Contracts CMB-3 Mail Stop: TWB-01-B10M Washington, DC 20555
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

3100

Department of Interior / NBC NRCPayments@nbc.gov Attn: Fiscal Services Branch - D2770 7301 W. Mansfield Avenue Denver CO 80235-2230
TELEPHONE NO. 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

X

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN _______________ COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED

X

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF. ___________________________________ OFFER DATED ________________________________. YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS: 31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)

31c. DATE SIGNED

Pearlette Merriweather Contracting Officer
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

Contents
SECTION B - CONTINUATION BLOCK .......................................................................................... B-1  B.1 PRICE/COST SCHEDULE ..................................................................................................B-1  B.2 PROJECT TITLE .................................................................................................................B-1  B.3 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF WORK (MAR 1987) ..................................................................B-1  B.4 CONTRACT TYPE ..............................................................................................................B-1  B.5 DURATION OF CONTRACT PERIOD (MAR 1987)............................................................B-1  B.6 AWARD TERMS..................................................................................................................B-1  B.7 CONTRACT CONSIDERATION AND MAXIMUM CONTRACT VALUE .............................B-2  SECTION C - CONTRACT CLAUSES ............................................................................................. C-1  C.1 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009)C-1  C.2 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009) ALTERNATE I (OCT 2008) .............................................................................................. C-6  C.3 PLACE OF DELIVERY--REPORTS (JUN 1988)............................................................. C-15  C.5 Compensation for On-Site Contractor Personnel ............................................................ C-17  C.6 SEAT BELTS .................................................................................................................. C-17  C.7SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LEVEL I OR LEVEL II ACCESS APPROVAL (JUL 2007) ................................................................................. C-17  C.8 NRC INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY TRAINING (AUG 2003) .................. C-19  C.9 Safety of On-Site Contractor Personnel .......................................................................... C-20  C.11 APPROPRIATE USE OF GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) EQUIPMENT AND/ OR IT SERVICES/ ACCESS (MARCH 2002) ........................ C-21  C.12 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION FOR NRC CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (JULY 2006) ............................................................................................ C-22  C.13 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE TESTING: UNESCORTED ACCESS TO NUCLEAR FACILITIES, ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OR SAFEGUARDS INFORMATION, OR PERFORMING IN SPECIALLY SENSITIVE POSITIONS (DEC 2008) ....................................................................................................................................... C-22  C.14 2052.204.70 SECURITY (MAR 2004) .......................................................................... C-23  C.16 2052.209-70 CURRENT/FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT (OCT 1999) C-25  C.17 2052.209-72 CONTRACTOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (JAN 1993) .............................................................................................................................. C-25  C.18 2052.215-70 KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 1993)............................................................... C-27  C.19 2052.215-77 TRAVEL APPROVALS AND REIMBURSEMENT (OCT 1999) .............. C-28  C.20 2052.215-71 PROJECT OFFICER AUTHORITY (NOVEMBER 2006) .......................... C-28  C.21 2052.222-70 NONDISCRIMINATION BECAUSE OF AGE (JAN 1993) ...................... C-30  C.22 52.204-9 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (SEPT 2007) .................................................................................................................. C-31  C.23 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2010).............. C-31  C.25 52.216-18 ORDERING (OCT 1995) ............................................................................ C-37  C.26 52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995)........................................................... C-37  C.27 52.216-22 INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995) ........................................................ C-38  C.28 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) .......................................... C-38  C.29 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) ........ C-38  C.31 52.227-23 RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA (TECHNICAL) (JUN 1987) ..................... C-39  C.32 52.234-3 NOTICE OF EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS - POST AWARD IBR (JULY 2006) ............................................................................................................ C-39  C.34 52.237-2 PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984) ........................................................................................... C-40  C.35 52.244-5 COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996) ................................. C-41 

C.36 52.246-25 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY--SERVICES (FEB 1997)................................ C-41  SECTION D - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, OR ATTACHMENTS ................................. D-1  SECTION E - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS ....................................................................................E-1  ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS ...E-1  E.1 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008) ...........E-1  ADDENDUM TO PARAGRAPHS (b) AND (c) OF PROVISION 52.212-1: PROPOSAL CONTENT AND FORMAT ................................................................................................E-4  E.2 52.212-2 EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)...........................................E-6  E.3 52.216-31 TIME-AND-MATERIALS/LABOR-HOUR PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS-COMMERCIAL ITEM ACQUISITION (FEB 2007) ............................................................E-8  E.4 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)..........................................................E-9  E.5 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006) ...............................................................E-9  E.6 2052.215-72 TIMELY RECEIPT OF PROPOSALS (OCT 1999).......................................E-9  E.7 2052.215-73 AWARD NOTIFICATION AND COMMITMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS (OCT 1999) .................................................................................................................................E-9  E.8 2052.215-74 DISPOSITION OF PROPOSALS (JAN 1993) ............................................E-10  E.9 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009) .........................................................................................................E-10  E.10 SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE APPLICABILITY..............................................................E-21 

NRC3310ADAMS

Section B

SECTION B - CONTINUATION BLOCK B.1 PRICE/COST SCHEDULE
The offeror shall, provide labor categories, labor category descriptions and fully loaded hourly rates for the following contract periods: 001 Base Period ­ One year, starting on the next business day after contract Award. For proposal preparation purposes, assume a start date 10/1/2010. 002 Option Period ­ One year, beginning on day after Base Period expires. 003 Award Term I - One year, beginning on day after Option Period expires 004 Award Term II - One year, beginning on day after Award Term I expires. 005 Award Term III - One year, beginning on day after Award Term I expires.

B.2 PROJECT TITLE
Agency-wide Documents Access and Management System (ADAMS) Support and Application Migration

B.3 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF WORK (MAR 1987)
The purpose of this procurement is to acquire the technical services from a contractor to provide a full range of IT services, technical expertise, and project management to support, migrate and enhance the NRC ADAMS system and its various applications.

B.4 CONTRACT TYPE
This is an Indefinite-Delivery, Indefinite-Quantity (IDIQ) contract under which firm-fixed-price, time-and-materials or labor-hour task orders may be negotiated and awarded.

B.5 DURATION OF CONTRACT PERIOD (MAR 1987)
Base Period ­ 10/01/2010 ­ 09/30/2011 Option Period I ­ 10/01/2011 ­ 09/30/2012 Award Term I ­ 10/01/2012 ­ 09/30/2013 Award Term II - 10/01/2013 ­ 09/30/2014 Award Term III - 10/01/2014 ­ 09/30/2015

B.6 AWARD TERMS
(a) The Contractor's performance will be measured against the negotiated elements and performance levels as prescribed in the Award Term Plan ("Plan") (Attachment D), by the Performance Award Term Review Team, who will report their findings to the Award Term Determining Official. The Award Term Determining Official makes the final decision regarding whether award term(s) will be granted according to the criteria set forth in the Award Term Plan. B-1

NRC3310ADAMS

Section B

(b) The exercising of Award Terms is at the unilateral discretion of the Government subject to (1) the availability of funds in accordance with FAR clause 52.232-19, (2) the Government's continued requirement of the services, and (3) at no time during the performance of this contract, the Contractor receives an interim past performance rating for the preceding contract years below a satisfactory rating from NRC.

B.7 CONTRACT CONSIDERATION AND MAXIMUM CONTRACT VALUE
The Government is obligated to order a minimum of $10,000.00 worth of services during the first 12 months of the Base Period of this contract. The total maximum contract value is $11,246,541.00, should the option period and award terms be exercised. As the option year and award terms are exercised, the total estimated amount for the contract year being exercised will be added to the then-current contract value to calculate a new contract value as of that contract year. The government may order up to the maximum value/quantity over the course of the entire five year period of this contract.

B-2

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

SECTION C - CONTRACT CLAUSES C.1 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009)
(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Government-wide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.2331, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies(or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include(i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; C-1

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-C-2

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor;

C-3

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, AntiKickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; Section 1553 of the C-4

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 relating to whistleblower protections for contracts funded under that Act; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. (3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments (9) The specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-ofname agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will C-5

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

C.2 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009) ALTERNATE I (OCT 2008)
(a) Inspection/Acceptance. (1) The Government has the right to inspect and test all materials furnished and services performed under this contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in contract performance. The Government will perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (2) If the Government performs inspection or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (3) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government will accept or reject services and materials at the place of delivery as promptly as practicable after delivery, and they will be presumed accepted 60 days after the date of delivery, unless accepted earlier. (4) At any time during contract performance, but not later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of the services or materials last delivered under this contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct services or materials that at time of delivery failed to meet contract requirements. Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined under paragraph (i) of this clause, but the "hourly rate" for labor hours incurred in the replacement or correction shall be reduced to exclude that portion of the rate attributable to profit. Unless otherwise specified below, the portion of the "hourly rate" attributable to profit shall be 10 percent. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance materials and services required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. [Insert portion of labor rate attributable to profit.] (5)(i) If the Contractor fails to proceed with reasonable promptness to perform required replacement or correction, and if the replacement or correction can be performed within the ceiling price (or the ceiling price as increased by the Government), the Government may-(A) By contract or otherwise, perform the replacement or correction, charge to the Contractor any increased cost, or deduct such increased cost from any amounts paid or due under this contract; or (B) Terminate this contract for cause. (ii) Failure to agree to the amount of increased cost to be charged to the Contractor shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause of the contract. (6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) above, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement, without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to--

C-6

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(i) Fraud, lack of good faith, or willful misconduct on the part of the Contractor's managerial personnel; or (ii) The conduct of one or more of the Contractor's employees selected or retained by the Contractor after any of the Contractor's managerial personnel has reasonable grounds to believe that the employee is habitually careless or unqualified. (7) This clause applies in the same manner and to the same extent to corrected or replacement materials or services as to materials and services originally delivered under this contract. (8) The Contractor has no obligation or liability under this contract to correct or replace materials and services that at time of delivery do not meet contract requirements, except as provided in this clause or as may be otherwise specified in the contract. (9) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor's obligation to correct or replace Governmentfurnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.2331, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. (1) The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. As used in this clause-(i) Direct materials means those materials that enter directly into the end product, or that are used or consumed directly in connection with the furnishing of the end product or service. (ii) Hourly rate means the rate(s) prescribed in the contract for payment for labor that meets the labor category qualifications of a labor category specified in the contract that are-(A) Performed by the contractor; (B) Performed by the subcontractors; or (C) Transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the contractor under a common control. (iii) Materials means-(A) Direct materials, including supplies transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the contractor under a common control; (B) Subcontracts for supplies and incidental services for which there is not a labor category specified in the contract; C-7

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(C) Other direct costs (e.g., incidental services for which there is not a labor category specified in the contract, travel, computer usage charges, etc.); (D) The following subcontracts for services which are specifically excluded from the hourly rate: [Insert any subcontracts for services to be excluded from the hourly rates prescribed in the schedule.]; and (E) Indirect costs specifically provided for in this clause. (iv) Subcontract means any contract, as defined in FAR Subpart 2.1, entered into with a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of the prime contract or a subcontract including transfers between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor. It includes, but is not limited to, purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies(or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include(i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation C-8

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payments. (1) Services accepted. Payment shall be made for services accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destination(s) set forth in this contract. The Government will pay the Contractor as follows upon the submission of commercial invoices approved by the Contracting Officer: (i) Hourly rate. (A) The amounts shall be computed by multiplying the appropriate hourly rates prescribed in the contract by the number of direct labor hours performed. Fractional parts of an hour shall be payable on a prorated basis. (B) The rates shall be paid for all labor performed on the contract that meets the labor qualifications specified in the contract. Labor hours incurred to perform tasks for which labor qualifications were specified in the contract will not be paid to the extent the work is performed by individuals that do not meet the qualifications specified in the contract, unless specifically authorized by the Contracting Officer. (C) Invoices may be submitted once each month (or at more frequent intervals, if approved by the Contracting Officer) to the Contracting Officer or the authorized representative. (D) When requested by the Contracting Officer or the authorized representative, the Contractor shall substantiate invoices (including any subcontractor hours reimbursed at the hourly rate in the schedule) by evidence of actual payment, individual daily job timecards, records that verify the employees meet the qualifications for the labor categories specified in the contract, or other substantiation specified in the contract. (E) Unless the Schedule prescribes otherwise, the hourly rates in the Schedule shall not be varied by virtue of the Contractor having performed work on an overtime basis. (1) If no overtime rates are provided in the Schedule and the Contracting Officer approves overtime work in advance, overtime rates shall be negotiated. (2) Failure to agree upon these overtime rates shall be treated as a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract. (3) If the Schedule provides rates for overtime, the premium portion of those rates will be reimbursable only to the extent the overtime is approved by the Contracting Officer. (ii) Materials. (A) If the Contractor furnishes materials that meet the definition of a commercial item at FAR 2.101, the price to be paid for such materials shall be the contractor's established catalog or market price, adjusted to reflect the-C-9

NRC3310ADAMS (1) Quantities being acquired; and (2) Any modifications necessary because of contract requirements.

Section C

(B) Except as provided for in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) and (D)(2) of this clause, the Government will reimburse the Contractor the actual cost of materials (less any rebates, refunds, or discounts received by the contractor that are identifiable to the contract) provided the Contractor-(1) Has made payments for materials in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement or invoice; or (2) Makes these payments within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor's payment request to the Government and such payment is in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement or invoice. (C) To the extent able, the Contractor shall-(1) Obtain materials at the most advantageous prices available with due regard to securing prompt delivery of satisfactory materials; and (2) Give credit to the Government for cash and trade discounts, rebates, scrap, commissions, and other amounts that are identifiable to the contract. (D) Other Costs. Unless listed below, other direct and indirect costs will not be reimbursed. (1) Other Direct Costs. The Government will reimburse the Contractor on the basis of actual cost for the following, provided such costs comply with the requirements in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(B) of this clause: [Insert each element of other direct costs (e.g., travel, computer usage charges, etc. Insert "None" if no reimbursement for other direct costs will be provided. If this is an indefinite delivery contract, the Contracting Officer may insert "Each order must list separately the elements of other direct charge(s) for that order or, if no reimbursement for other direct costs will be provided, insert 'None".'] (2) Indirect Costs (Material Handling, Subcontract Administration, etc.). The Government will reimburse the Contractor for indirect costs on a pro-rata basis over the period of contract performance at the following fixed price: [Insert a fixed amount for the indirect costs and payment schedule. Insert "$0" if no fixed price reimbursement for indirect costs will be provided. (If this is an indefinite delivery contract, the Contracting Officer may insert "Each order must list separately the fixed amount for the indirect costs and payment schedule or, if no reimbursement for indirect costs, insert 'None')."] (2) Total cost. It is estimated that the total cost to the Government for the performance of this contract shall not exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule and the Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and all obligations under this contract within such ceiling price. If at any time the Contractor has reason to believe that the hourly rate payments and material costs that will accrue in performing this contract in the next succeeding 30 days, if added to all other payments and costs previously accrued, will exceed 85 percent of the ceiling price in the Schedule, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer giving a revised estimate of the total price to the Government for performing this contract with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during the performance of this contract, the Contractor has reason to believe that the total price to the Government for performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the then stated ceiling price, the Contractor shall so notify the Contracting Officer, giving a revised estimate of the total price for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during performance of this contract, the Government has reason to believe that the work to be required in performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the stated ceiling price, the Contracting Officer will so advise the Contractor, giving the then revised estimate of the total amount of effort to be required under the contract. C-10

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(3) Ceiling price. The Government will not be obligated to pay the Contractor any amount in excess of the ceiling price in the Schedule, and the Contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule, unless and until the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor in writing that the ceiling price has been increased and specifies in the notice a revised ceiling that shall constitute the ceiling price for performance under this contract. When and to the extent that the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule has been increased, any hours expended and material costs incurred by the Contractor in excess of the ceiling price before the increase shall be allowable to the same extent as if the hours expended and material costs had been incurred after the increase in the ceiling price. (4) Access to records. At any time before final payment under this contract, the Contracting Officer (or authorized representative) will have access to the following (access shall be limited to the listing below unless otherwise agreed to by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer): (i) Records that verify that the employees whose time has been included in any invoice meet the qualifications for the labor categories specified in the contract; (ii) For labor hours (including any subcontractor hours reimbursed at the hourly rate in the schedule), when timecards are required as substantiation for payment-(A) The original timecards (paper-based or electronic); (B) The Contractor's timekeeping procedures; (C) Contractor records that show the distribution of labor between jobs or contracts; and (D) Employees whose time has been included in any invoice for the purpose of verifying that these employees have worked the hours shown on the invoices. (iii) For material and subcontract costs that are reimbursed on the basis of actual cost-(A) Any invoices or subcontract agreements substantiating material costs; and (B) Any documents supporting payment of those invoices. (5) Overpayments/Underpayments. Each payment previously made shall be subject to reduction to the extent of amounts, on preceding invoices, that are found by the Contracting Officer not to have been properly payable and shall also be subject to reduction for overpayments or to increase for underpayments. The Contractor shall promptly pay any such reduction within 30 days unless the parties agree otherwise. The Government within 30 days will pay any such increases, unless the parties agree otherwise. The Contractor's payment will be made by check. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on an invoice payment, the Contractor shall-(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. C-11

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6)(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury, as provided in section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, and then at the rate applicable for each six month period as established by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final Decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt in a timely manner; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see FAR 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (viii) Upon receipt and approval of the invoice designated by the Contractor as the "completion invoice" and supporting documentation, and upon compliance by the Contractor with all terms of this contract, any outstanding balances will be paid within 30 days unless the parties agree otherwise. The completion invoice, and supporting documentation, shall be submitted by the Contractor as promptly as practicable following completion of the work under this contract, but in no event later than 1 year (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may approve in writing) from the date of completion. C-12

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(7) Release of claims. The Contractor, and each assignee under an assignment entered into under this contract and in effect at the time of final payment under this contract, shall execute and deliver, at the time of and as a condition precedent to final payment under this contract, a release discharging the Government, its officers, agents, and employees of and from all liabilities, obligations, and claims arising out of or under this contract, subject only to the following exceptions. (i) Specified claims in stated amounts, or in estimated amounts if the amounts are not susceptible to exact statement by the Contractor. (ii) Claims, together with reasonable incidental expenses, based upon the liabilities of the Contractor to third parties arising out of performing this contract, that are not known to the Contractor on the date of the execution of the release, and of which the Contractor gives notice in writing to the Contracting Officer not more than 6 years after the date of the release or the date of any notice to the Contractor that the Government is prepared to make final payment, whichever is earlier. (iii) Claims for reimbursement of costs (other than expenses of the Contractor by reason of its indemnification of the Government against patent liability), including reasonable incidental expenses, incurred by the Contractor under the terms of this contract relating to patents. (8) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (9) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (10) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date that appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid an amount for direct labor hours (as defined in the Schedule of the contract) determined by multiplying the number of direct labor hours expended before the effective date of termination by the hourly rate(s) in the contract, less any hourly rate payments already made to the Contractor plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system that have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to C-13

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, AntiKickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; Section 1553 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 relating to whistleblower protections for contracts funded under that Act; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. (3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments (9) The specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate C-14

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-ofname agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

C.3 PLACE OF DELIVERY--REPORTS (JUN 1988)
The items to be furnished hereunder shall be delivered, with all charges paid by the Contractor, to: (a) Project Officer (1 copies) (PROJ-OFFICER-ADD1) (PROJ-OFFICER-ADD2) (PROJ-OFFICER-ADD3) (PROJ-OFFICER-ADD4) (b) Contracting Officer (1 copy) C.4 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ACCESS APPROVAL (JUL 2007) The Contractor shall ensure that all its employees, subcontractor employees or consultants who are assigned to perform the work herein for contract performance for periods of more than 30 calendar days at NRC facilities, are approved by the NRC for unescorted NRC building access. The Contractor shall conduct a preliminary federal facilities security screening interview or review for each of its employee, subcontractor employee, and consultants and submit to the NRC only the names of candidates for contract performance that have a reasonable probability of obtaining approval necessary for access to NRC's federal facilities. The Contractor shall pre- screen its applicants for the following: (a) felony arrest in the last seven years; (b) alcohol related arrest within the last five years; (c) record of any military courts-martial convictions in the past 10 years; (d) illegal use of narcotics or other controlled substances possession in the past year, or illegal purchase, production, transfer, or distribution of narcotics or other controlled substances in the last seven years; (e) delinquency on any federal debts or bankruptcy in the last seven years.

C-15

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

The Contractor shall make a written record of its pre-screening interview or review (including any information to mitigate the responses to items listed in (a) - (e)), and have the applicant verify the pre-screening record or review, sign and date it. Two copies of the pre-screening signed record or review shall be supplied to FSB/DFS with the Contractor employee's completed building access application package. The Contractor shall further ensure that its employees, any subcontractor employees and consultants complete all building access security applications required by this clause within ten business days of notification by FSB/DFS of initiation of the application process. Timely receipt of properly completed records of the Contractor's signed prescreening record or review and building access security applications (submitted for candidates that have a reasonable probability of obtaining the level of security clearance necessary for access to NRC's facilities) is a contract requirement. Failure of the Contractor to comply with this contract administration requirement may be a basis to cancel the award, or terminate the contract for default, or offset from the contract's invoiced cost or price the NRC's incurred costs or delays as a result of inadequate pre-screening by the Contractor. In the event of cancellation or termination, the NRC may select another firm for contract award. A Contractor, subcontractor employee or consultant shall not have access to NRC facilities until he/she is approved by FSB/DFS. Temporary access may be approved based on a favorable NRC review and discretionary determination of their building access security forms. Final building access will be approved based on favorably adjudicated checks by the Government. However, temporary access approval will be revoked and the Contractor's employee may subsequently be denied access in the event the employee's investigation cannot be favorably determined by the NRC. Such employee will not be authorized to work under any NRC contract requiring building access without the approval of FSB/DFS. When an individual receives final access, the individual will be subject to a review or reinvestigation every five years. The Government shall have and exercise full and complete control and discretion over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating building access approvals for individuals performing work under this contract. Individuals performing work under this contract at NRC facilities for a period of more than 30 calendar days shall be required to complete and submit to the Contractor representative an acceptable OPM Form 85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions), and two FD 258 (Fingerprint Charts). Non-U.S. citizens must provide official documentation to the FSB/DFS, as proof of their legal residency. This documentation can be a Permanent Resident Card, Temporary Work Visa, Employment Authorization Card, or other official documentation issued by the U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Any applicant with less than two years residency in the U. S. will not be approved for building access. The Contractor shall submit the documents to the NRC Project Officer (PO) who will give them to FSB/DFS. FSB/DFS may, among other things, grant or deny temporary unescorted building access approval to an individual based upon its review of the information contained in the OPM Form 85P and the Contractor's pre-screening record. Also, in the exercise of its authority, the Government may, among other things, grant or deny permanent building access approval based on the results of its review or investigation. This submittal requirement also applies to the officers of the firm who, for any reason, may visit the NRC work sites for an extended period of time during the term of the contract. In the event that FSB/DFS are unable to grant a temporary or permanent building access approval, to any individual performing work under this contract, the Contractor is responsible for assigning another individual to perform the necessary function without any delay in the contract's performance schedule, or without adverse impact to any other terms or conditions of the contract. The Contractor is responsible for informing those affected by this procedure of the required building access approval process (i.e., temporary and permanent determinations), and the possibility that individuals may be required to wait until permanent building access approvals are granted before beginning work in NRC's buildings. CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION OF BUILDING ACCESS/ REQUEST The Contractor shall immediately notify the PO when a Contractor or subcontractor employee or consultant's need for NRC building access approval is withdrawn or the need by the Contractor employee's for building access terminates. The PO will immediately notify FSB/DFS (via e-mail) when a Contractor employee no longer requires building access. The Contractor shall be required to return any NRC issued badges to the Project Officer for return to FSB/DFS within three days after their termination. C-16

NRC3310ADAMS (End of Clause)

Section C

C.5 Compensation for On-Site Contractor Personnel
a. NRC facilities may not be available due to (1) designated Federal holiday, any other day designated by Federal Statute, Executive Order, or by President's Proclamation; (2) early dismissal of NRC employees during working hours (e.g., special holidays, water emergency); or (3) occurrence of emergency conditions during nonworking hours (e.g., inclement weather). b. When NRC facilities are unavailable, the contractor's compensation and deduction policy (date), incorporated herein by reference, shall be followed for contractor employees performing work on-site at the NRC facility. The contractor shall promptly submit any revisions to this policy to the Contracting Officer for review before they are incorporated into the contract. c. The contractor shall not charge the NRC for work performed by on- site contractor employees who were reassigned to perform other duties off site during the time the NRC facility was closed. d. On-site contractor staff shall be guided by the instructions given by a third party (e.g., Montgomery County personnel in situations which pose an immediate health or safety threat to employees (e.g., water emergency). e. The contractor's Project Director shall first consult the NRC Project Officer before authorizing leave for on-site personnel in situations which do not impose an immediate safety or health threat to employees (e.g., special holidays). That same day, the contractor must then alert the Contracting Officer of the NRC Project Officer's direction. The contractor shall continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform the requirements of essential tasks as defined in the Statement of Work which already are in operation or are scheduled.

C.6 SEAT BELTS
Contractors, subcontractors, and grantees, are encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt policies and programs for their employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally owned vehicles.

C.7SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LEVEL I OR LEVEL II ACCESS APPROVAL (JUL 2007)
The proposer/Contractor must identify all individuals and propose the level of Information Technology (IT) approval for each, using the following guidance. The NRC sponsoring office shall make the final determination of the level, if any, of IT approval required for all individuals working under this contract. The Government shall have and exercise full and complete control and discretion over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating IT access approvals for individuals performing work under this contract. The Contractor shall conduct a preliminary security interview or review for each IT level I or II access approval Contractor applicant and submit to the Government only the names of candidates that have a reasonable probability of obtaining the level of IT security access for which the candidate has been proposed. The Contractor will pre-screen its applicants for the following: (a) felony arrest in the last seven years; (b) alcohol related arrest within the last five years; (c) record of any military courts-martial convictions in the past ten years; (d) illegal use of narcotics or other controlled substances possession in the past year, or illegal purchase, production, transfer, or distribution of narcotics or other controlled substances in the last seven years; (e) delinquency on any federal debts or bankruptcy in the last seven years. The Contractor shall make a written record of its pre-screening interview or review (including any information to mitigate the responses to items listed in (a) - (e)), and have the applicant verify the pre-screening record or review, C-17

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

sign and date it. Two copies of the signed Contractor's pre-screening record or review will be supplied to FSB/DFS with the Contractor employee's completed building access application package. The Contractor shall further ensure that its employees, any subcontractor employees and consultants complete all IT access security applications required by this clause within ten business days of notification by FSB/DFS of initiation of the application process. Timely receipt of properly completed records of the pre-screening record and IT access security applications (submitted for candidates that have a reasonable probability of obtaining the level of security assurance necessary for access to NRC's facilities) is a contract requirement. Failure of the Contractor to comply with this contract administration requirement may be a basis to cancel the award, or terminate the contract for default, or offset from the contract's invoiced cost or price the NRC's incurred costs or delays as a result of inadequate prescreening by the Contractor. In the event of cancellation or termination, the NRC may select another firm for contract award. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR IT LEVEL I Performance under this contract will involve prime Contractor personnel, subcontractors or others who perform services requiring direct access to or operate agency sensitive information technology systems or data (IT Level I). The IT Level I involves responsibility for the planning, direction, and implementation of a computer security program; major responsibility for the direction, planning, and design of a computer system, including hardware and software; or the capability to access a computer system during its operation or maintenance in such a way that could cause or that has a relatively high risk of causing grave damage; or the capability to realize a significant personal gain from computer access. A Contractor employee shall not have access to sensitive information technology systems or data until he/she is approved by FSB/DFS. Temporary IT access may be approved based on a favorable review or adjudication of their security forms and checks. Final IT access may be approved based on a favorably review or adjudication. However, temporary access authorization approval will be revoked and the employee may subsequently be denied IT access in the event the employee's investigation cannot be favorably adjudicated. Such an employee will not be authorized to work under any NRC contract requiring IT access without the approval of FSB/DFS. Where temporary access authorization has been revoked or denied, the Contractor is responsible for assigning another individual to perform the necessary work under this contract without delay to the contract's performance schedule, or without adverse impact to any other terms or conditions of the contract. When an individual receives final IT access, the individual will be subject to a reinvestigation every ten years. The Contractor shall submit a completed security forms packet, including the OPM Standard Form (SF) 85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions), two copies of the Contractor's signed pre-screening record and two FD 258 fingerprint charts, through the PO to FSB/DFS for review and favorable adjudication, prior to the individual performing work under this contract. The Contractor shall assure that all forms are accurate, complete, and legible. Based on FSB/DFS review of the Contractor applicant's security forms and/or the receipt of adverse information by NRC, the individual may be denied access to NRC facilities, sensitive information technology systems or data until a final determination is made of his/her eligibility. In accordance with NRCAR 2052.204 70 "Security," IT Level I Contractors shall be subject to the attached NRC Form 187 (See Section J for List of Attachments) and SF- 85P which furnishes the basis for providing security requirements to prime Contractors, subcontractors or others (e.g., bidders) who have or may have an NRC contractual relationship which requires access to or operation of agency sensitive information technology systems or remote development and/or analysis of sensitive information technology systems or data or other access to such systems and data; access on a continuing basis (in excess more than 30 calendar days) to NRC buildings; or otherwise requires issuance of an unescorted NRC badge. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR IT LEVEL II Performance under this contract will involve Contractor personnel that develop and/or analyze sensitive information technology systems or data or otherwise have access to such systems or data (IT Level II). C-18

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

The IT Level II involves responsibility for the planning, design, operation, or maintenance of a computer system and all other computer or IT positions. A Contractor employee shall not have access to sensitive information technology systems or data until he/she is approved by FSB/DFS. Temporary access may be approved based on a favorable review of their security forms and checks. Final IT access may be approved based on a favorably adjudication. However, temporary access authorization approval will be revoked and the employee may subsequently be denied IT access in the event the employee's investigation cannot be favorably adjudicated. Such an employee will not be authorized to work under any NRC contract requiring IT access without the approval of FSB/DFS. Where temporary access authorization has been revoked or denied, the Contractor is responsible for assigning another individual to perform the necessary work under this contract without delay to the contract's performance schedule, or without adverse impact to any other terms or conditions of the contract. When an individual receives final IT access, the individual will be subject to a review or reinvestigation every ten years. The Contractor shall submit a completed security forms packet, including the OPM Standard Form (SF) 85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions), two copies of the Contractor's signed pre-screening record and two FD 258 fingerprint charts, through the PO to FSB/DFS for review and favorable adjudication, prior to the individual performing work under this contract. The Contractor shall assure that all forms are accurate, complete, and legible. Based on FSB/DFS review of the Contractor applicant's security forms and/or the receipt of adverse information by NRC, the individual may be denied access to NRC facilities, sensitive information technology systems or data until a final determination is made of his/her eligibility. In accordance with NRCAR 2052.204 70 "Security," IT Level II Contractors shall be subject to the attached NRC Form 187 (See Section J for List of Attachments), SF- 85P, and Contractor's record of the pre-screening which furnishes the basis for providing security requirements to prime Contractors, subcontractors or others (e.g. bidders) who have or may have an NRC contractual relationship which requires access to or operation of agency sensitive information technology systems or remote development and/or analysis of sensitive information technology systems or data or other access to such systems or data; access on a continuing basis (in excess of more than 30 calendar days) to NRC buildings; or otherwise requires issuance of an unescorted NRC badge. CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION OF IT ACCESS/REQUEST When a request for IT access is to be withdrawn or canceled, the Contractor shall immediately notify the PO by telephone in order that he/she will immediately contact FSB/DFS so that the access review may be promptly discontinued. The notification shall contain the full name of the individual, and the date of the request. Telephone notifications must be promptly confirmed by the Contractor in writing to the PO who will forward the confirmation via email to FSB/DFS. Additionally, FSB/DFS must be immediately notified in writing when an individual no longer requires access to NRC sensitive automated information technology systems or data, including the voluntary or involuntary separation of employment of an individual who has been approved for or is being processed for IT access.

C.8 NRC INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY TRAINING (AUG 2003)
NRC contractors shall ensure that their employees, consultants, and subcontractors with access to the agency's information technology (IT) equipment and/or IT services complete NRC's online initial and refresher IT security training requirements to ensure that their knowledge of IT threats, vulnerabilities, and associated countermeasures remains current. Both the initial and refresher IT security training courses generally last an hour or less and can be taken during the employee's regularly scheduled work day. Contractor employees, consultants, and subcontractors shall complete the NRC's online, "Computer Security Awareness" course on the same day that they receive access to the agency's IT equipment and/or services, as their first action using the equipment/service. For those contractor employees, consultants, and subcontractors who are C-19

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

already working under this contract, the on-line training must be completed in accordance with agency Network Announcements issued throughout the year 2003 within three weeks of issuance of this modification. Contractor employees, consultants, and subcontractors who have been granted access to NRC information technology equipment and/or IT services must continue to take IT security refresher training offered online by the NRC throughout the term of the contract. Contractor employees will receive notice of NRC's online IT security refresher training requirements through agency-wide notices. The NRC reserves the right to deny or withdraw Contractor use or access to NRC IT equipment and/or services, and/or take other appropriate contract administrative actions (e.g., disallow costs, terminate for cause) should the Contractor violate the Contractor's responsibility under this clause.

C.9 Safety of On-Site Contractor Personnel
Ensuring the safety of occupants of Federal buildings is a responsibility shared by the professionals implementing our security and safety programs and the persons being protected. The NRC's Office of Administration (ADM) Division of Facilities and Security (DFS) has coordinated an Occupant Emergency Plan (OEP) for NRC Headquarters buildings with local authorities. The OEP has been approved by the Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service. It is designed to improve building occupants' chances of survival, minimize damage to property, and promptly account for building occupants when necessary. The contractor's Project Director shall ensure that all personnel working full time on-site at NRC Headquarters read the NRC's OEP, provided electronically on the NRC Intranet at http://www.internal.nrc.gov/ADM/OEP.pdf The contractor's Project Director also shall emphasize to each staff member that they are to be familiar with and guided by the OEP, as well as by instructions given by emergency response personnel in situations which pose an immediate health or safety threat to building occupants. The NRC Project Officer shall ensure that the contractor's Project Director has communicated the requirement for onsite contractor staff to follow the guidance in the OEP. The NRC Project Officer also will assist in accounting for onsite contract persons in the event of a major emergency (e.g., explosion occurs and casualties or injuries are suspected) during which a full evacuation will be required, including the assembly and accountability of occupants. The NRC DFS will conduct drills periodically to train occupants and assess these procedures. C.10 FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, OR INFLUENCE OVER CONTRACTOR (a) For purposes of this clause, a foreign interest is defined as any of the following: (1) A foreign government or foreign government agency; (2) Any form of business enterprise organized under the laws of any country other than the United States or its possessions; (3) Any form of business enterprise organized or incorporated under the laws of the U.S., or a State or other jurisdiction within the U.S., which is owned, controlled, or influenced by a foreign government, agency, firm, corporation or person; or (4) Any person who is not a U.S. citizen. (b) Foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI) may be present where the degree of ownership, control, or influence over a contractor by a foreign interest is such that a reasonable basis exists for concluding that the compromise or unauthorized disclosure of classified information may occur.

C-20

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(c) For purposes of this clause, subcontractor means any subcontractor at any tier and the term "contracting officer" shall mean NRC contracting officer. When this clause is included in a subcontract, the term "contractor" shall mean subcontractor and the term "contract" shall mean subcontract. (d) The contractor shall immediately provide the contracting officer written notice of any changes in the extent and nature of FOCI over the contractor which would affect the answers to the questions presented in DD Form 441S, "Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interest". Further, notice of changes in ownership or control which are required to be reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, or the Department of Justice shall also be furnished concurrently to the contracting officer. (e) In those cases where a contractor has changes involving FOCI, the NRC must determine whether the changes will pose an undue risk to the common defense and security. In making this determination, the contracting officer shall consider proposals made by the contractor to avoid or mitigate foreign influences. (f) The contractor agrees to insert terms that conform substantially to the language of this clause including this paragraph (g) in all subcontracts under this contract that will require access to classified information. Additionally, the contractor shall require such subcontractors to submit completed information required on the DD Form 441 form prior to award of a subcontract. Information to be provided by a subcontractor pursuant to this clause may be submitted directly to the contracting officer. (g) Information submitted by the contractor or any affected subcontractor as required pursuant to this clause shall be treated by NRC to the extent permitted by law, as business or financial information submitted in confidence to be used solely for purposes of evaluating FOCI. (h) The requirements of this clause are in addition to the requirement that a contractor obtain and retain the security clearances required by the contract. This clause shall not operate as a limitation on NRC's rights, including its rights to terminate this contract. (i) The contracting officer may terminate this contract for default either if the contractor fails to meet obligations imposed by this clause, e.g., provide the information required by this clause, comply with the contracting officer's instructions about safeguarding classified information, or make this clause applicable to subcontractors, or if, in the contracting officer's judgment, the contractor creates a FOCI situation in order to avoid performance or a termination for default. The contracting officer may terminate this contract for convenience if the contractor becomes subject to FOCI and for reasons other than avoidance of performance of the contract, cannot, or chooses not to, avoid or mitigate the FOCI problem.

C.11 APPROPRIATE USE OF GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) EQUIPMENT AND/ OR IT SERVICES/ ACCESS (MARCH 2002)
As part of contract performance the NRC may provide the contractor with information technology (IT) equipment and IT services or IT access as identified in the solicitation or subsequently as identified in the contract or delivery order. Government furnished IT equipment, or IT services, or IT access may include but is not limited to computers, copiers, facsimile machines, printers, pagers, software, phones, Internet access and use, and email access and use. The contractor (including the contractor's employees, consultants and subcontractors) shall use the government furnished IT equipment, and / or IT provided services, and/ or IT access solely to perform the necessary efforts required under the contract. The contractor (including the contractor's employees, consultants and subcontractors) are prohibited from engaging or using the government IT equipment and government provided IT services or IT access for any personal use, misuse, abuses or any other unauthorized usage. The contractor is responsible for monitoring its employees, consultants and subcontractors to ensure that government furnished IT equipment and/ or IT services, and/ or IT access are not being used for personal use, misused or abused. The government reserves the right to withdraw or suspend the use of its government furnished C-21

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

IT equipment, IT services and/ or IT access arising from contractor personal usage, or misuse or abuse; and/ or to disallow any payments associated with contractor (including the contractor's employees, consultants and subcontractors) personal usage, misuses or abuses of IT equipment, IT services and/ or IT access; and/ or to terminate for cause the contract or delivery order arising from violation of this provision.

C.12 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION FOR NRC CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (JULY 2006)
(a) The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) contractor and its subcontractor are subject to the Whistleblower Employee Protection public law provisions as codified at 42 U.S.C. 5851. NRC contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) shall comply with the requirements of this Whistleblower Employee Protection law, and the implementing regulations of the NRC and the Department of Labor (DOL). See, for example, DOL Procedures on Handling Complaints at 29 C.F.R. Part 24 concerning the employer obligations, prohibited acts, DOL procedures and the requirement for prominent posting of notice of Employee Rights at Appendix A to Part 24. (b) Under this Whistleblower Employee Protection law, as implemented by regulations, NRC contractor and subcontractor employees are protected from discharge, reprisal, threats, intimidation, coercion, blacklisting or other employment discrimination practices with respect to compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of their employment because the contractor or subcontractor employee(s) has provided notice to the employer, refused to engage in unlawful practices, assisted in proceedings or testified on activities concerning alleged violations of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (as amended) and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (as amended). (c) The contractor shall insert this or the substance of this clause in any subcontracts involving work performed under this contract.

C.13 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE TESTING: UNESCORTED ACCESS TO NUCLEAR FACILITIES, ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OR SAFEGUARDS INFORMATION, OR PERFORMING IN SPECIALLY SENSITIVE POSITIONS (DEC 2008)
NRC's Headquarters Assistant Drug Program Coordinator (ADPC) shall be responsible for implementing and managing the collecting and testing portions of the NRC Contractor Drug Testing Program. The Headquarters ADPC function is carried out by the Drug Program Manager in the Division of Facilities and Security, Office of Administration. All sample collection, testing, and review of test results shall be conducted by the NRC "drug testing contractor." The NRC will reimburse the NRC "drug testing contractor" for these services. All contractor employees, subcontractor employees, and consultants proposed for performance or performing under this contract shall be subject to the requirements of the clause if they meet one of the following criteria stated in the Plan: (1) individuals who require unescorted access to nuclear power plants, (2) individuals who have access to classified or safeguards information, (3) individuals who are required to carry firearms in performing security services for the NRC, (4) individuals who are required to operate government vehicles or transport passengers for the NRC, (5) individuals who are required to operate hazardous equipment at NRC facilities, or (6) individuals who admit to recent illegal drug use or those who are found through other means to be using drugs illegally. The Plan includes preassignment, random, reasonable suspicion, and post-accident drug testing. The due process procedures applicable to NRC employees under NRC=s Drug Testing Program are not applicable to contractors, consultants, subcontractors and their employees. Rather, a contractor's employees and their subcontractors are subject to the procedures and terms of their employment agreements with their employer. The NRC Drug Program Manager will schedule the drug testing for all contractor employees, subcontractor employees, and consultants who are subject to testing under this clause in accordance with the Plan. The NRC will reimburse the NRC "drug testing contractor" for collecting, testing, and reviewing test results. Any NRC contractor found to be using, selling, or possessing illegal drugs, or any contractor with a verified positive drug test result under C-22

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

this program while in a duty status will immediately be removed from working under the NRC contract. The contractor's employer will be notified of the denial or revocation of the individual's authorization to have access to information and ability to perform under the contract. The individual may not work on any NRC contract for a period of not less than one year from the date of the failed drug test and will not be considered for reinstatement unless evidence of rehabilitation, as determined by the NRC "drug testing contractor's" Medical Review Officer, is provided. Contractor drug testing records are protected under the NRC Privacy Act Systems of Records, System 35, "Drug Testing Program Records - NRC" found at: http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/foia/privacy-systems.html

C.14 2052.204.70 SECURITY (MAR 2004)
(a) Contract Security and/or Classification Requirements (NRC Form 187). The policies, procedures, and criteria of the NRC Security Program, NRC Management Directive (MD) 12 (including MD 12.1, "NRC Facility Security Program;" MD 12.2, "NRC Classified Information Security Program;" MD 12.3, "NRC Personnel Security Program;" MD 12.4, "NRC Telecommunications Systems Security Program;" MD 12.5, "NRC Automated Information Systems Security Program;" and MD 12.6, "NRC Sensitive Unclassified Information Security Program"), apply to performance of this contract, subcontract or other activity. This MD is incorporated into this contract by reference as though fully set forth herein. The attached NRC Form 187 (See List of Attachments) furnishes the basis for providing security and classification requirements to prime contractors, subcontractors, or others (e.g., bidders) who have or may have an NRC contractual relationship that requires access to classified Restricted Data or National Security Information or matter, access to sensitive unclassified information (e.g., Safeguards), access to sensitive Information Technology (IT) systems or data, unescorted access to NRC controlled buildings/space, or unescorted access to protected and vital areas of nuclear power plants. (b) It is the contractor's duty to protect National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data. The contractor shall, in accordance with the Commission's security regulations and requirements, be responsible for protecting National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data, and for protecting against sabotage, espionage, loss, and theft, the classified documents and material in the contractor's possession in connection with the performance of work under this contract. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this contract, the contractor shall, upon completion or termination of this contract, transmit to the Commission any classified matter in the possession of the contractor or any person under the contractor's control in connection with performance of this contract. If retention by the contractor of any classified matter is required after the completion or termination of the contract and the retention is approved by the contracting officer, the contractor shall complete a certificate of possession to be furnished to the Commission specifying the classified matter to be retained. The certification must identify the items and types or categories of matter retained, the conditions governing the retention of the matter and their period of retention, if known. If the retention is approved by the contracting officer, the security provisions of the contract continue to be applicable to the matter retained. (c) In connection with the performance of the work under this contract, the contractor may be furnished, or may develop or acquire, safeguards information, or confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information, including Commission plans, policies, reports, financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93.579), or other information which has not been released to the public or has been determined by the Commission to be otherwise exempt from disclosure to the public. The contractor shall ensure that information protected from public disclosure is maintained as required by NRC regulations and policies, as cited in this contract or as otherwise provided by the NRC. The contractor will not directly or indirectly duplicate, disseminate, or disclose the information in whole or in part to any other person or organization except as may be necessary to perform the work under this contract. The contractor agrees to return the information to the Commission or otherwise dispose of it at the direction of the contracting officer. Failure to comply with this clause is grounds for termination of this contract. (d) Regulations. The contractor agrees to conform to all security regulations and requirements of the Commission which are subject to change as directed by the NRC Division of Facilities and Security (DFS) and the Contracting Officer. These changes will be under the authority of the FAR Changes clause referenced in this document.

C-23

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

The contractor agrees to comply with the security requirements set forth in NRC Management Directive 12.1, NRC Facility Security Program which is incorporated into this contract by reference as though fully set forth herein. Attention is directed specifically to the section titled "Infractions and Violations," including "Administrative Actions" and "Reporting Infractions." (e) Definition of National Security Information. The term National Security Information, as used in this clause, means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated. (f) Definition of Restricted Data. The term Restricted Data, as used in this clause, means all data concerning design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; the production of special nuclear material; or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but does not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to Section 142 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. (g) Definition of Formerly Restricted Data. The term Formerly Restricted Data, as used in this clause, means all data removed from the Restricted Data category under Section 142-d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. (h) Definition of Safeguards Information. Sensitive unclassified information that specifically identifies the detailed security measures of a licensee or an applicant for the physical protection of special nuclear material; or security measures for the physical protection and location of certain plant equipment vital to the safety of production of utilization facilities. Protection of this information is required pursuant to Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. (i) Security Clearance. The contractor may not permit any individual to have access to Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, or other classified information, except in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Commission's regulations or requirements applicable to the particular type or category of classified information to which access is required. The contractor shall also execute a Standard Form 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement, when access to classified information is required. (j) Criminal Liabilities. It is understood that disclosure of National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data relating to the work or services ordered hereunder to any person not entitled to receive it, or failure to safeguard any Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, or any other classified matter that may come to the contractor or any person under the contractor's control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the contractor, its agents, employees, or subcontractors to criminal liability under the laws of the United States. (See the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.; 18 U.S.C. 793 and 794; and Executive Order 12958.) (k) Subcontracts and Purchase Orders. Except as otherwise authorized in writing by the contracting officer, the contractor shall insert provisions similar to the foregoing in all subcontracts and purchase orders under this contract. (l) In performing the contract work, the contractor shall classify all documents, material, and equipment originated or generated by the contractor in accordance with guidance issued by the Commission. Every subcontract and purchase order issued hereunder involving the origination or generation of classified documents, material, and equipment must provide that the subcontractor or supplier assign classification to all documents, material, and equipment in accordance with guidance furnished by the contractor. C.15 2052.204-71 BADGE REQUIREMENTS FOR UNESCORTED BUILDING ACCESS TO NRC FACILITIES (MAR 2006) During the life of this contract, the rights of ingress and egress for contractor personnel must be made available, as required, provided that the individual has been approved for unescorted access after a favorable adjudication from the Security Branch, Division of Facilities and Security (SB/DFS).

C-24

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

In this regard, all contractor personnel whose duties under this contract require their presence on site shall be clearly identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by the NRC. The Project Officer shall assist the contractor in obtaining badges for the contractor personnel. All contractor personnel must present two forms of Identity Source Documents (I9). One of the documents must be a valid picture ID issued by a state or by the Federal Government. Original I-9 documents must be presented in person for certification. A list of acceptable documents can be found at http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/recruit_employ/i9form.pdf. It is the sole responsibility of the contractor to ensure that each employee has a proper NRC-issued identification/badge at all times. All photo-identification badges must be immediately (no later than three days) delivered to SB/DFS for cancellation or disposition upon the termination of employment of any contractor personnel. Contractor personnel must display any NRC issued badge in clear view at all times during on site performance under this contract. It is the contractor's duty to assure that contractor personnel enter only those work areas necessary for performance of contract work, and to assure the protection of any Government records or data that contractor personnel may come into contact with.

C.16 2052.209-70 CURRENT/FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT (OCT 1999)
(a) The following representation is required by the NRC Acquisition Regulation 2009.105-70(b). It is not NRC policy to encourage offerors and contractors to propose current/former agency employees to perform work under NRC contracts and as set forth in the above cited provision, the use of such employees may, under certain conditions, adversely affect NRC's consideration of non-competitive proposals and task orders. (b) There ( ) are ( ) are no current/former NRC employees (including special Government employees performing services as experts, advisors, consultants, or members of advisory committees) who have been or will be involved, directly or indirectly, in developing the offer, or in negotiating on behalf of the offeror, or in managing, administering, or performing any contract, consultant agreement, or subcontract resulting from this offer. For each individual so identified, the Technical and Management proposal must contain, as a separate attachment, the name of the individual, the individual's title while employed by the NRC, the date individual left NRC, and a brief description of the individual's role under this proposal.

C.17 2052.209-72 CONTRACTOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (JAN 1993)
(a) Purpose. The primary purpose of this clause is to aid in ensuring that the contractor: (1) Is not placed in a conflicting role because of current or planned interests (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) which relate to the work under this contract; and (2) Does not obtain an unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of its performance of this contract. (b) Scope. The restrictions described apply to performance or participation by the contractor, as defined in 48 CFR 2009.570-2 in the activities covered by this clause. (c) Work for others. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, during the term of this contract, the contractor agrees to forego entering into consulting or other contractual arrangements with any firm or organization the result of which may give rise to a conflict of interest with respect to the work being performed under this contract. The contractor shall ensure that all employees under this contract abide by the provision of this clause. If the contractor has reason to believe, with respect to itself or any employee, that any proposed consultant or other contractual arrangement with any firm or organization may involve a potential conflict of interest, the contractor shall obtain the written approval of the contracting officer before the execution of such contractual arrangement. (2) The contractor may not represent, assist, or otherwise support an NRC licensee or applicant undergoing an NRC audit, inspection, or review where the activities that are the subject of the audit, inspection, or review are the C-25

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

same as or substantially similar to the services within the scope of this contract (or task order as appropriate) except where the NRC licensee or applicant requires the contractor's support to explain or defend the contractor's prior work for the utility or other entity which NRC questions. (3) When the contractor performs work for the NRC under this contract at any NRC licensee or applicant site, the contractor shall neither solicit nor perform work in the same or similar technical area for that licensee or applicant organization for a period commencing with the award of the task order or beginning of work on the site (if not a task order contract) and ending one year after completion of all work under the associated task order, or last time at the site (if not a task order contract). (4) When the contractor performs work for the NRC under this contract at any NRC licensee or applicant site, (i) The contractor may not solicit work at that site for that licensee or applicant during the period of performance of the task order or the contract, as appropriate. (ii) The contractor may not perform work at that site for that licensee or applicant during the period of performance of the task order or the contract, as appropriate, and for one year thereafter. (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the contracting officer may authorize the contractor to solicit or perform this type of work (except work in the same or similar technical area) if the contracting officer determines that the situation will not pose a potential for technical bias or unfair competitive advantage. (d) Disclosure after award. (1) The contractor warrants that to the best of its knowledge and belief, and except as otherwise set forth in this contract, that it does not have any organizational conflicts of interest as defined in 48 CFR 2009.570-2. (2) The contractor agrees that if, after award, it discovers organizational conflicts of interest with respect to this contract, it shall make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This statement must include a description of the action which the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid or mitigate such conflicts. The NRC may, however, terminate the contract if termination is in the best interest of the Government. (3) It is recognized that the scope of work of a task-order-type contract necessarily encompasses a broad spectrum of activities. Consequently, if this is a task-order-type contract, the contractor agrees that it will disclose all proposed new work involving NRC licensees or applicants which comes within the scope of work of the underlying contract. Further, if this contract involves work at a licensee or applicant site, the contractor agrees to exercise diligence to discover and disclose any new work at that licensee or applicant site. This disclosure must be made before the submission of a bid or proposal to the utility or other regulated entity and must be received by the NRC at least 15 days before the proposed award date in any event, unless a written justification demonstrating urgency and due diligence to discover and disclose is provided by the contractor and approved by the contracting officer. The disclosure must include the statement of work, the dollar value of the proposed contract, and any other documents that are needed to fully describe the proposed work for the regulated utility or other regulated entity. NRC may deny approval of the disclosed work only when the NRC has issued a task order which includes the technical area and, if site-specific, the site, or has plans to issue a task order which includes the technical area and, if site-specific, the site, or when the work violates paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section. (e) Access to and use of information. (1) If in the performance of this contract, the contractor obtains access to information, such as NRC plans, policies, reports, studies, financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. Section 552a (1988)), or the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. Section 552 (1986)), the contractor agrees not to: (i) Use this information for any private purpose until the information has been released to the public; C-26

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(ii) Compete for work for the Commission based on the information for a period of six months after either the completion of this contract or the release of the information to the public, whichever is first; (iii) Submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government based on the information until one year after the release of the information to the public; or (iv) Release the information without prior written approval by the contracting officer unless the information has previously been released to the public by the NRC. (2) In addition, the contractor agrees that, to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. Section 552a (1988)), or the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. Section 552 (1986)), or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, the contractor shall treat the information in accordance with restrictions placed on use of the information. (3) Subject to patent and security provisions of this contract, the contractor shall have the right to use technical data it produces under this contract for private purposes provided that all requirements of this contract have been met. (f) Subcontracts. Except as provided in 48 CFR 2009.570-2, the contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph, in subcontracts of any tier. The terms contract, contractor, and contracting officer, must be appropriately modified to preserve the Government's rights. (g) Remedies. For breach of any of the above restrictions, or for intentional nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant interest required to be disclosed concerning this contract or for such erroneous representations that necessarily imply bad faith, the Government may terminate the contract for default, disqualify the contractor from subsequent contractual efforts, and pursue other remedies permitted by law or this contract. (h) Waiver. A request for waiver under this clause must be directed in writing to the contracting officer in accordance with the procedures outlined in 48 CFR 2009.570-9. (i) Follow-on effort. The contractor shall be ineligible to participate in NRC contracts, subcontracts, or proposals therefor (solicited or unsolicited), which stem directly from the contractor's performance of work under this contract. Furthermore, unless so directed in writing by the contracting officer, the contractor may not perform any technical consulting or management support services work or evaluation activities under this contract on any of its products or services or the products or services of another firm if the contractor has been substantially involved in the development or marketing of the products or services. (1) If the contractor, under this contract, prepares a complete or essentially complete statement of work or specifications, the contractor is not eligible to perform or participate in the initial contractual effort which is based on the statement of work or specifications. The contractor may not incorporate its products or services in the statement of work or specifications unless so directed in writing by the contracting officer, in which case the restrictions in this paragraph do not apply. (2) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the contractor from offering or selling its standard commercial items to the Government.

C.18 2052.215-70 KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 1993)
(a) The following individuals are considered to be essential to the successful performance of the work hereunder: 1. To be specified in each task order, if applicable

C-27

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

The contractor agrees that personnel may not be removed from the contract work or replaced without compliance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (b) If one or more of the key personnel, for whatever reason, becomes, or is expected to become, unavailable for work under this contract for a continuous period exceeding 30 work days, or is expected to devote substantially less effort to the work than indicated in the proposal or initially anticipated, the contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer and shall, subject to the concurrence of the contracting officer, promptly replace the personnel with personnel of at least substantially equal ability and qualifications. (c) Each request for approval of substitutions must be in writing and contain a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions. The request must also contain a complete resume for the proposed substitute and other information requested or needed by the contracting officer to evaluate the proposed substitution. The contracting officer and the project officer shall evaluate the contractor's request and the contracting officer shall promptly notify the contractor of his or her decision in writing. (d) If the contracting officer determines that suitable and timely replacement of key personnel who have been reassigned, terminated, or have otherwise become unavailable for the contract work is not reasonably forthcoming, or that the resultant reduction of productive effort would be so substantial as to impair the successful completion of the contract or the service order, the contract may be terminated by the contracting officer for default or for the convenience of the Government, as appropriate. If the contracting officer finds the contractor at fault for the condition, the contract price or fixed fee may be equitably adjusted downward to compensate the Government for any resultant delay, loss, or damage.

C.19 2052.215-77 TRAVEL APPROVALS AND REIMBURSEMENT (OCT 1999)
(a) All foreign travel must be approved in advance by the NRC on NRC Form 445, Request for Approval of Official Foreign Travel, and must be in compliance with FAR 52.247-63 Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers. The contractor shall submit NRC Form 445 to the NRC no later than 30 days before beginning travel. (b) The contractor must receive written approval from the NRC Project Officer before taking travel that was unanticipated in the Schedule (i.e., travel not contemplated in the Statement of Work, or changes to specific travel identified in the Statement of Work). (c) The contractor will be reimbursed only for those travel costs incurred that are directly related to this contract and are allowable subject to the limitations prescribed in FAR 31.205-46. (d) It is the responsibility of the contractor to notify the contracting officer in accordance with the Limitations of Cost clause of this contract when, at any time, the contractor learns that travel expenses will cause the contractor to exceed the estimated costs specified in the Schedule. (e) Reasonable travel costs for research and related activities performed at State and nonprofit institutions, in accordance with Section 12 of Pub. L. 100-679, shall be charged in accordance with the contractor's institutional policy to the degree that the limitations of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance are not exceeded. Applicable guidance documents include OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations; and OMB Circular A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.

C.20 2052.215-71 PROJECT OFFICER AUTHORITY (NOVEMBER 2006)
(a) The contracting officer's authorized representative (hereinafter referred to as the project officer) for this contract is:

C-28

NRC3310ADAMS Name: Individual Task Order will identify the individual Project Officer Address:

Section C

Telephone Number: (b) Performance of the work under this contract is subject to the technical direction of the NRC project officer. The term "technical direction" is defined to include the following: (1) Technical direction to the contractor which shifts work emphasis between areas of work or tasks, authorizes travel which was unanticipated in the Schedule (i.e., travel not contemplated in the Statement of Work (SOW) or changes to specific travel identified in the SOW), fills in details, or otherwise serves to accomplish the contractual SOW. (2) Provide advice and guidance to the contractor in the preparation of drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work description. (3) Review and, where required by the contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and technical information to be delivered by the contractor to the Government under the contract. (c) Technical direction must be within the general statement of work stated in the contract. The project officer does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical direction which: (1) Constitutes an assignment of work outside the general scope of the contract. (2) Constitutes a change as defined in the "Changes" clause of this contract. (3) In any way causes an increase or decrease in the total estimated contract cost, the fixed fee, if any, or the time required for contract performance. (4) Changes any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract. (5) Terminates the contract, settles any claim or dispute arising under the contract, or issues any unilateral directive whatever. (d) All technical directions must be issued in writing by the project officer or must be confirmed by the project officer in writing within ten (10) working days after verbal issuance. A copy of the written direction must be furnished to the contracting officer. A copy of NRC Form 445, Request for Approval of Official Foreign Travel, which has received final approval from the NRC must be furnished to the contracting officer. (e) The contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical directions duly issued by the project officer in the manner prescribed by this clause and within the project officer's authority under the provisions of this clause. (f) If, in the opinion of the contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the project officer is within one of the categories as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, the contractor may not proceed but shall notify the contracting officer in writing within five (5) working days after the receipt of any instruction or direction and shall request the contracting officer to modify the contract accordingly. Upon receiving the notification from the contractor, the contracting officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the contractor in writing that, in the contracting officer's opinion, the technical direction is within the scope of this article and does not constitute a change under the "Changes" clause. C-29

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(g) Any unauthorized commitment or direction issued by the project officer may result in an unnecessary delay in the contractor's performance and may even result in the contractor expending funds for unallowable costs under the contract. (h) A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the instruction or direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto is subject to 52.233-1 -Disputes. (i) In addition to providing technical direction as defined in paragraph (b) of the section, the project officer shall: (1) Monitor the contractor's technical progress, including surveillance and assessment of performance, and recommend to the contracting officer changes in requirements. (2) Assist the contractor in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance. (3) Review all costs requested for reimbursement by the contractor and submit to the contracting officer recommendations for approval, disapproval, or suspension of payment for supplies and services required under this contract. (4) Assist the contractor in obtaining the badges for the contractor personnel. (5) Immediately notify the Security Branch, Division of Facilities and Security (SB/DFS) (via e-mail) when a contractor employee no longer requires access authorization and return of any NRC issued badge to SB/DFS within three days after their termination. (6) Ensure that all contractor employees that require access to classified Restricted Data or National Security Information or matter, access to sensitive unclassified information (Safeguards, Official Use Only, and Proprietary information) access to sensitive IT systems or data, unescorted access to NRC controlled buildings/space, or unescorted access to protected and vital areas of nuclear power plants receive approval of SB/DFS prior to access in accordance with Management Directive and Handbook 12.3. (7) For contracts for the design, development, maintenance or operation of Privacy Act Systems of Records, obtain from the contractor as part of closeout procedures, written certification that the contractor has returned to NRC, transferred to the successor contractor, or destroyed at the end of the contract in accordance with instructions provided by the NRC Systems Manager for Privacy Act Systems of Records, all records (electronic or paper) which were created, compiled, obtained or maintained under the contract.

C.21 2052.222-70 NONDISCRIMINATION BECAUSE OF AGE (JAN 1993)
It is the policy of the Executive Branch of the Government that: (a) Contractors and subcontractors engaged in the performance of Federal contracts may not, in connection with the employment, advancement, or discharge of employees or in connection with the terms, conditions, or privileges of their employment, discriminate against persons because of their age except upon the basis of a bona fide occupational qualification, retirement plan, or statutory requirements; and (b) That contractors and subcontractors, or persons acting on their behalf, may not specify, in solicitations or advertisements for employees to work on Government contracts, a maximum age limit for employment unless the specified maximum age limit is based upon a bona fide occupational qualification, retirement plan, or statutory requirement.

C-30

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

C.22 52.204-9 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (SEPT 2007)
(a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24, and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system.

C.23 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2010)
a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). _X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Mar 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). ___ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5). ___ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a). _X_ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jul 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (7) [Reserved] ___ (8) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. C-31

NRC3310ADAMS ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.

Section C

___ (9) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. ___ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (11) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4).) ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. _X_ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (14) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. _X_ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). _X_ (18) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). _X_ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X_ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Aug 2009) (E.O. 13126). _X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). C-32

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

_X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (26) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (27) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPADesignated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (28) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (29) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. ___ (30) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ___ (31) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act ­Free Trade Agreements ­ Israeli Trade Act (Jun 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-301, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. ___ (32) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (33) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (34) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (35) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (36) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (37) 52.232.30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). C-33

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

_X_ (38) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (39) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (40) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (41) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (42) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). ___ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this C-34

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) [Reserved] (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).

C-35

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. C.24 52.227-17 RIGHTS IN DATA - SPECIAL WORKS (DEC 2007) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-"Data" means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. "Unlimited rights" means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. (b) Allocation of Rights. (1) The Government shall have-(i) Unlimited rights in all data delivered under this contract, and in all data first produced in the performance of this contract, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause. (ii) The right to limit assertion of copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract, and to obtain assignment of copyright in that data, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. (iii) The right to limit the release and use of certain data in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (2) The Contractor shall have, to the extent permission is granted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, the right to assert claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this contract. (c) Copyright-(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. (i) The Contractor shall not assert or authorize others to assert any claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this contract without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer. When copyright is asserted, the Contractor shall affix the appropriate copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number) to the data when delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. The Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all delivered data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. (ii) If the Government desires to obtain copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract and permission has not been granted as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall direct

C-36

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

the Contractor to assign (with or without registration), or obtain the assignment of, the copyright to the Government or its designated assignee. (2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract and that contain the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, unless the Contractor identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. (d) Release and use restrictions. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced in the performance of this contract, nor authorize others to do so, without written permission of the Contracting Officer. (e) Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication, or use of any data furnished under this contract; or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor's consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and these provisions do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies.

C.25 52.216-18 ORDERING (OCT 1995)
(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from date of award through the last day of the contract. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule.

C.26 52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995)
(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $5,000.00, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor-(1) Any order for a single item in excess of $2,500,000.00; (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of $11,246,541.00; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within 30 days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

C-37

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 5 days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.

C.27 52.216-22 INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995)
(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 02/28/2016.

C.28 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 15 days.

C.29 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)
(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days of expiration of the Base Period; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the Base Period of the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years.

C-38

NRC3310ADAMS C.30 52.228-5 INSURANCE - WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION (JAN 1997)

Section C

(a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire performance of this contract, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. (b) Before commencing work under this contract, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing that the required insurance has been obtained. The policies evidencing required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or any material change adversely affecting the Government's interest shall not be effective-(1) For such period as the laws of the State in which this contract is to be performed prescribe; or (2) Until 30 days after the insurer or the Contractor gives written notice to the Contracting Officer, whichever period is longer. (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this contract that require work on a Government installation and shall require subcontractors to provide and maintain the insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. The Contractor shall maintain a copy of all subcontractors' proofs of required insurance, and shall make copies available to the Contracting Officer upon request.

C.31 52.227-23 RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA (TECHNICAL) (JUN 1987)
Except for data contained on pages , it is agreed that as a condition of award of this contract, and notwithstanding the conditions of any notice appearing thereon, the Government shall have unlimited rights (as defined in the "Rights in Data--General" clause contained in this contract) in and to the technical data contained in the proposal dated upon which this contract is based.

C.32 52.234-3 NOTICE OF EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS - POST AWARD IBR (JULY 2006)
(a) The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 (current version at time of solicitation). (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (1) The plan shall-(i) Describe the EVMS the offeror intends to use in performance of the contracts; (ii) Distinguish between the offeror's existing management system and modifications proposed to meet the guidelines; (iii) Describe the management system and its application in terms of the EVMS guidelines; (iv) Describe the proposed procedure for administration of the guidelines, as applied to subcontractors; and (v) Provide documentation describing the process and results of any third-party or self-evaluation of the system's compliance with the EVMS guidelines.

C-39

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

(2) The offeror shall provide information and assistance as required by the Contracting Officer to support review of the plan. (3) The Government will review and approve the offeror's plan for an EVMS before contract award. (4) The offeror's EVMS plan must provide milestones that indicate when the offeror anticipates that the EVM system will be compliant with the ANSI/EIA Standard -748 guidelines. (c) Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected, planned for application of the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines. C.33 52.234-4 EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (JUL 2006) (a) The Contractor shall use an earned value management system (EVMS) that has been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA) to be compliant with the guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 (current version at the time of award) to manage this contract. If the Contractor's current EVMS has not been determined compliant at the time of award, see paragraph (b) of this clause. The Contractor shall submit reports in accordance with the requirements of this contract. (b) If, at the time of award, the Contractor's EVM System has not been determined by the CFA as complying with EVMS guidelines or the Contractor does not have an existing cost/schedule control system that is compliant with the guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 (current version at time of award), the Contractor shall-(1) Apply the current system to the contract; and (2) Take necessary actions to meet the milestones in the Contractor's EVMS plan approved by the Contracting Officer. (c) The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). If a pre-award IBR has not been conducted, a post award IBR shall be conducted as early as practicable after contract award. (d) The Contracting Officer may require an IBR at-(1) Exercise of significant options; or (2) Incorporation of major modifications. (e) Unless a waiver is granted by the CFA, Contractor proposed EVMS changes require approval of the CFA prior to implementation. The CFA will advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed changes from the Contractor. If the advance approval requirements are waived by the CFA, the Contractor shall disclose EVMS changes to the CFA at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of implementation. (f) The Contractor shall provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by the Contracting Officer or a duly authorized representative as necessary to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the EVMS conforms, and continues to conform, with the performance criteria referenced in paragraph (a) of this clause. (g) The Contractor shall require the subcontractors specified below to comply with the requirements of this clause:

C.34 52.237-2 PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984)

C-40

NRC3310ADAMS

Section C

The Contractor shall use reasonable care to avoid damaging existing buildings, equipment, and vegetation on the Government installation. If the Contractor's failure to use reasonable care causes damage to any of this property, the Contractor shall replace or repair the damage at no expense to the Government as the Contracting Officer directs. If the Contractor fails or refuses to make such repair or replacement, the Contractor shall be liable for the cost, which may be deducted from the contract price.

C.35 52.244-5 COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)
(a) The Contractor shall select subcontractors (including suppliers) on a competitive basis to the maximum practical extent consistent with the objectives and requirements of the contract. (b) If the Contractor is an approved mentor under the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protégé Program (Pub. L. 101-510, section 831 as amended), the Contractor may award subcontracts under this contract on a noncompetitive basis to its protégés.

C.36 52.246-25 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY--SERVICES (FEB 1997)
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) below, and except to the extent that the Contractor is expressly responsible under this contract for deficiencies in the services required to be performed under it (including any materials furnished in conjunction with those services), the Contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to property of the Government that (1) occurs after Government acceptance of services performed under this contract and (2) results from any defects or deficiencies in the services performed or materials furnished. (b) The limitation of liability under paragraph (a) above shall not apply when a defect or deficiency in, or the Government's acceptance of, services performed or materials furnished results from willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor's managerial personnel. The term "Contractor's managerial personnel," as used in this clause, means the Contractor's directors, officers, and any of the Contractor's managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of-(1) All or substantially all of the Contractor's business; (2) All or substantially all of the Contractor's operations at any one plant, laboratory, or separate location at which the contract is being performed; or (3) A separate and complete major industrial operation connected with the performance of this contract. (c) If the Contractor carries insurance, or has established a reserve for self-insurance, covering liability for loss or damage suffered by the Government through the Contractor's performance of services or furnishing of materials under this contract, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government, to the extent of such insurance or reserve, for loss of or damage to property of the Government occurring after Government acceptance of, and resulting from any defects and deficiencies in, services performed or materials furnished under this contract.

C-41

NRC3310ADAMS

Section D

SECTION D - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, OR ATTACHMENTS
ATTACHMENT TITLE

A B C D E F G H I

STATEMENT OF WORK/SPECIFICATION INITIAL TASK ORDER PERFORMANCE MATRIX TEMPLATE AWARD TERM PLAN GUIDENESS LIST OF CONTRACTS FORM BILLING INSTRUCTIONS FOR LABOR HOUR ORDERS BILING INSTRUCTIONS FOR FIXED PRICE ORDERS NRC 187 (Provided Upon Award) OCOI GUIDELINES

D-1

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

SECTION E - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS
Provisions that are incorporated by reference (by Citation Number, Title, and Date), have the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The following provisions are incorporated into 52.212-1 as an addendum to this solicitation:

E.1 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008)
(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show -(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.

E-1

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in E-2

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to-GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS +4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866705-5711 or via the internet at http://www.fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States E-3

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

ADDENDUM TO PARAGRAPHS (b) AND (c) OF PROVISION 52.212-1: PROPOSAL CONTENT AND FORMAT
This addendum replaces paragraph (b) and paragraph (c) of provision 52.212-1. All other requirements of provision 52.212-1 apply as stated in that provision. (b)(1) Information submitted in response to this solicitation must be typed, printed, or reproduced on letter-size paper and each copy must be legible. Offerors are hereby notified that all information provided in the proposal must be accurate, truthful, and complete to the best of the offeror's knowledge and belief. The Commission will rely upon all representations made by the offeror both in the evaluation process and for the performance of the work by the offeror selected for award. The Commission may require the offeror to substantiate the credentials, education, and employment history of its employees, subcontractor personnel, and consultants, through submission of copies of transcripts, diplomas, licenses, etc. (b)(2) The required content and format of the proposal is as follows:. (i) Part 1 - Solicitation Package/Offer. One (1) signed original and one (1) copy of this solicitation package/offer, including a completed copy of the SF 1449 for this solicitation and a completed copy of provision 52.212-3 from this solicitation The offeror shall also submit a CD that includes all Parts of its proposal on a CD and include that CD with Part 1 of the proposal. The portion of the cost/price proposal that includes the actual costs/prices must be readable in Microsoft Excel format. The remainder of the proposal may be submitted in .pdf format or some other format that is readable by Microsoft Office Word version 2003 or later. (ii) Part 2 ­ Cost/Price Proposal. One (1) original and 3 copies are required. E-4

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(A) The cost/price proposal shall be submitted separately from the Technical and Management Proposal

(iii) Part 3 ­ Technical and Management Proposal. One (1) original and three (3) copies are required. (A) The written Technical and Management Proposal should not contain any reference to cost/price. Resource information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontracts, travel, computer time, etc., must be included so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of work may be evaluated. (B) The offeror shall include full and complete information as set forth below to permit the Government to make a thorough evaluation and a sound determination that the proposed approach will have a reasonable likelihood of meeting the requirements and objectives of this procurement. (C) The written Technical and Management Proposal shall follow the format set forth below. (D) Statements which paraphrase the performance work statement including the initial task order without communicating the specific approach proposed by the offeror, or statements to the effect that the offeror's understanding can or will comply with the statement of work may be construed as an indication of the offeror's lack of understanding of the statement of work and objectives.

FORMAT FOR TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT PROPOSAL: Page Limitation: The Technical and Management Proposal shall not exceed 25 pages, excluding resumes and past performance information.

(1) The offeror shall describe, in detail, its understanding of the objectives of the IDIQ Statement of Work (Addendum
A to the solicitation)t; (2) The offeror shall describe, in detail, its technical approach for completing the requirements of the Performance Work Statement for the first task order (Addendum B to this solicitation); (3) The offeror shall propose a Management Plan for solicitation Addendum B that describes responsibilities of each proposed person, communication and coordination with the Project Officer and Contracting Officer, management of the subcontractors, how the Contractor will track and monitor schedule, cost and performance requirements. (4) The offeror shall provide written evidence that the offeror and its subcontractors possess authority from IBM to perform services of the nature required by this solicitation.

(5) The offer shall provide a description of its current personnel resources to include: (a) Resumes for persons proposed to work as a direct charge on the first task order (Addendum B to the solicitation), to include their full name, a description of their experience and capability, their education, any applicable certifications and/or accomplishments, the company name of their current employer, and their current country of citizenship. Show the knowledge that key personnel have gained through completed and ongoing efforts that are similar in nature to this effort. (b) For any persons proposed that are not U.S. citizens, include a copy of their current Visa documentation. (c) For any persons that are not currently employees of the offeror that are intended to become employees of the offeror if award is made to the offeror, include a signed letter of commitment between the offeror and the proposed person for them to become an employee of the offeror and work on this acquisition. E-5

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(d) A description of the offeror's other current personnel resources that relate capabilities and experience relating to this solicitation/ (6) Past Performance Information. The offeror shall provide past performance references of similar efforts completed or currently being performed by your organization for the last three years. Include a description of the project, project title, contract number, contract amount, client identification including agency or company name, contracting and technical reviewing official, address, telephone number, and e-mail address. Past performance information may also be provided for first-tier subcontractors that are proposed to perform at least 25% of the labor cost of the first task order (Addendum B) requirements. (b)(3) Small Business Subcontracting Plan ­ If the offeror is not a small business under NAICS 541519 (size standard: $25 million), then the offeror shall submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan that meets the requirements of FAR clause 52.219-9 with its offer. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the costs/prices in its offer firm for at least 180 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers.

COST/PRICE PROPOSAL The cost/price proposal shall be a separate volume from the technical proposal and must include: 1. A description of the offeror's minimum qualifications (education and/or experience) of each proposed labor category that could be utilized to negotiate and award task orders under the IDIQ contract 2. The fully loaded hourly rate(s) proposed for each proposed IDIQ contract labor category 3. Identification of the proposed labor categories, ceiling number of hours proposed per labor category, IDIQ contract hourly rate and total ceiling amount for performing the first task order Addendum B), along with a firm-fixed-price for each firm-fixed-price task in Addendum B, broken down to show how the price(s) were derived; 4. Any other direct costs for the first task order (Addendum B), including travel costs and/or material costs as appropriate. The offeror shall not include profit/fee on other direct costs.. 5. Explanation for how fully loaded hourly rate for each labor category was derived (see provision 52.216-31 in this solicitation). ASSUMPTIONS, CONDITIONS, OR EXCEPTIONS The offeror shall submit, under separate cover, all (if any) assumptions, conditions, or exceptions with solicitation requirements.

E.2 52.212-2 EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)
(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, evaluated cost/price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: EVALUATION Each offeror's proposal will be evaluated according to the factors shown below. Technical Approach and Management Plan, Personnel Qualifications, Past Performance Information and Small Business Subcontracting Plan, when combined, are significantly more important than Cost/Price. E-6

NRC3310ADAMS A. Technical Approach and Management Plan ­ 30 Points

Section E

Under this factor, the Government will evaluate: 1. The offeror's demonstrated understanding of the requirement work, including creativity, innovation and thoroughness shown in understanding the objectives of the PWS and initial task order. 2. The soundness and feasibility of the offeror's proposed Technical Approach for satisfying the requirements of the first task order (Addendum B), including proposed methods and techniques for completing each discrete task; any proposed quality assurance techniques; how problems would be identified, tracked and resolved; and how customer service would be managed. 3. Soundness and feasibility of the proposed Management Plan. 4. Extent to which the offeror demonstrates that it and its subcontractors are authorized by IBM to perform services of the nature required by this solicitation. B. Personnel Qualifications ­ 30 Points

The Government will evaluate the demonstrated qualifications and experience of personnel proposed to work on the first task order (Addendum B) based strictly on the content of their resumes. C. Past Performance ­ 15 Points

1. Past performance by the offeror and its subcontractor(s) as it relates to all solicitation requirements, including the quality of services and products, effectiveness of cost management/control, timeliness of performance, and customer satisfaction; and indication of ability to improve performance through proactive management. 2. The Government will evaluate past performance information by contacting the references provided by the Offeror in its proposal. The Government may also consider other information available to evaluate the Offeror's past performance information. If no relevant past performance information is identified by the Offeror, or if the Government is unsuccessful in obtaining past performance feedback for the Offeror from applicable references or sources, then the Government would assign a neutral rating for Past Performance Information. D. Corporate Experience ­ 15 Points The Government will evaluate the breadth and depth of the Offeror's demonstrated corporate experience and, if applicable, demonstrated experience of subcontractors that are proposed to perform at least 25% of the labor cost of the initial task order. Supporting subcontractors, consultants and partners will be considered. E. Small Business Subcontracting Plan ­ 10 Points 1. Small businesses proposing as the prime contractor shall receive the full 10 points and are not required to submit a small business subcontracting plan.

2. The evaluation factor only applies to an "other than small business" offeror (the term "other than small business" shall include large businesses, universities, nonprofits, and those entities not considered small under NAICS code 541519 (size standard: $25 million) proposing as the prime contractor. The Government will consider and evaluate the other than small business offeror's proposed Small Business Subcontracting Plan as follows:

E-7

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

The other than small business offeror will be evaluated based upon its compliance with clause 52.219-9; its projected percentage of use of the small business concerns listed below; and the offeror's procedures to ensure successful achievement of such projected percentages. The other than small business offeror's proposed small business subcontracting plan shall ensure that small businesses, including those identified in clause 52.219-9, have the maximum practical opportunity to participate in contract performance based upon the total dollars planned to be subcontracted. The target small business subcontracting goals for applicable NRC procurements reflect the Federal-wide small business goals and are as follows: 23% for Small Business 5% for Small Disadvantaged Business 5% for Woman-Owned Small Business 3% for Veteran-Owned Small Business 3% for Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 3% for HUBZone-Owned Small Business The other than small business offeror shall also provide the procedures they will implement to ensure timely payment to small business subcontractors and their commitment to designate a senior executive to oversee the organization's Small Business Subcontracting Program. With respect to the Small Business Subcontracting Plan past performance and goal accomplishment, the Government will evaluate the other than small business offeror's past subcontract plan performance and past goal accomplishment through the official Government contract performance systems. The evaluation will consist of review of the applicable subcontracting reports (e.g., Individual Subcontracting Reports, Summary Subcontracting Reports, and Commercial Summary Subcontracting Reports), which are required to be submitted to and are located on the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System; and review of information obtained from the Past Performance Information Retrieval System. E. Evaluated Cost/Price 1. The cost/price evaluation will determine whether the proposed cost/pricing for the IDIQ labor categories and the first task order are realistic, complete, and reasonable in relation to the solicitation requirements. Proposed cost/pricing for the first task order must be entirely compatible with the Technical Approach and Management Plan portion of the proposal. The Government may also perform cost realism analysis. 2. The Government reserves the right to make an award to other than the lowest cost/priced offeror or to the offeror with the highest technical score if the Contracting Officer determines that to do so would result in the best value to the Government.

E.3 52.216-31 TIME-AND-MATERIALS/LABOR-HOUR PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS-- COMMERCIAL ITEM ACQUISITION (FEB 2007)
(a) The Government contemplates award of a Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hour type of contract resulting from this solicitation. (b) The offeror must specify fixed hourly rates in its offer that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit. The offeror must specify whether the fixed hourly rate for each labor category applies to labor performed by-(1) The offeror; (2) Subcontractors; and/or (3) Divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offeror under a common control. E-8

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

E.4 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)
Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government's best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

E.5 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)
(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: Joseph Widdup

Hand-Carried Address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Division of Contracts 12300 Twinbrook Parkway Rockville, MD 20852

Mailing Address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Div. of Contracts Mail Stop: TWB-01-B10M Washington, DC 20555 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

E.6 2052.215-72 TIMELY RECEIPT OF PROPOSALS (OCT 1999)
Sealed offers for furnishing the services or supplies in the schedule are due at the date and time stated in block 9 of Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award. Offers sent through the U.S. Mail (including U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service - Post Office to Addressee) must be addressed to the place specified in the solicitation. All hand-carried offers including those made by private delivery services (e.g., Federal Express and Airborne Express) must be delivered to the NRC loading dock security station located at 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852 and received in the depository located in Room T-7-I-2. All offerors should allow extra time for internal mail distribution or for pick up of hand-carried deliveries. NRC is a secure facility with perimeter accesscontrol and NRC personnel are only available to receive hand-carried offers during normal working hours, 7:30 AM 3:30 PM, Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays.

E.7 2052.215-73 AWARD NOTIFICATION AND COMMITMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS (OCT 1999)
(a) All offerors will be notified of their exclusion from the competitive range in accordance with FAR 15.503(a)(1). Under the requirements of FAR 15.503(a)(2), preliminary notification will be provided before award for small business set-aside procurements on negotiated procurements. The contracting officer shall provide written postaward notice to each unsuccessful offeror in accordance with FAR 15.503(b). E-9

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(b) The contracting officer is the only individual who can legally commit the NRC to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this procurement. This means that, unless provided in a contract document or specifically authorized by the contracting officer, NRC technical personnel may not issue contract modifications, give informal contractual commitments, or otherwise bind, commit, or obligate the NRC contractually. Informal contractual commitments include: (1) Encouraging a potential contractor to incur costs before receiving a contract; (2) Requesting or requiring a contractor to make changes under a contract without formal contract modifications; (3) Encouraging a contractor to incur costs under a cost-reimbursable contract in excess of those costs contractually allowable; and (4) Committing the Government to a course of action with regard to a potential contract, contract change, claim, or dispute.

E.8 2052.215-74 DISPOSITION OF PROPOSALS (JAN 1993)
After award of the contract, one copy of each unsuccessful proposal is retained by the NRC's Division of Contracts and Property Management in accordance with the General Records Schedule 3(5)(b). Unless return of the additional copies of the proposals is requested by the offeror upon submission of the proposals, all other copies will be destroyed. This request should appear in a cover letter accompanying the proposal.

E.9 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009)
An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation" means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-E-10

NRC3310ADAMS (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.

Section E

"Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and E-11

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b)(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs . (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a veteranowned small business concern.

E-12

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [ ] is a women-owned business concern. (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] (i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not an emerging small business. (ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or (B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Number of Employees __ 50 or fewer __ 51--100 __ 101--250 __ 251--500 Average Annual Gross Revenues __ $1 million or less __ $1,000,001--$2 million __ $2,000,001--$3.5 million __ $3,500,001--$5 million E-13

NRC3310ADAMS __ 501--750 __ 751--1,000 __ Over 1,000 __ $5,000,001--$10 million __ $10,000,001--$17 million __ Over $17 million

Section E

(9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-(A) It [ ] is, [ ] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [ ] has, [ ] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) [ ] Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ___________________.] (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:____________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It [ ] has, [ ] has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [ ] has, [ ] has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-E-14

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(i) It [ ] has developed and has on file, [ ] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [ ] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No ______________ ______________ ______________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." E-15 Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. __________________________________________ __________________________________________ __________________________________________ E-16 Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

NRC3310ADAMS [List as necessary]

Section E

(3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ [List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.made, designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country, end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [ ] Are, [ ] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; E-17 Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(2) [ ] Have, [ ] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) [ ] Are, [ ] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ ] Have, [ ] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin

E-18

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-(1) __ In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) __ Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [ ] does [ ] does not certify that-(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003- 4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003- 4(d)(1). The offeror [ ] does [ ] does not certify that-(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 E-19

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [ ] TIN: _____________________. [ ] TIN has been applied for. [ ] TIN is not required because: [ ] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [ ] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [ ] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. [ ] Sole proprietorship; [ ] Partnership; [ ] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [ ] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); E-20

NRC3310ADAMS [ ] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [ ] Foreign government; [ ] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [ ] Other _________________________. (5) Common parent. [ ] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; [ ] Name and TIN of common parent: Name _____________________. TIN _____________________.

Section E

(m) Restricted Business Operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874 (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR 9.108). (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one.

E.10 SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE APPLICABILITY
The Government will insert this Section 508 Compliance Applicability clause into individual task order as required. All contracts that contain a requirement for services which will result in the delivery of a new or updated electronic and information technology (EIT) item/ product must conform to the appropriate technical standards in 36 CFR 1194, Subpart B; the appropriate functional performance criteria in 36 CFR 1194, Subpart C; and the appropriate information, documentation, and support requirements in 36 CFR 1194, Subpart D, unless an agency exception to this requirement has been granted by the Contracting Officer. The offeror shall demonstrate an understanding of each of the applicable technical standards and articulate how each of these standards will be met in the delivery of the EIT product or product related service in performance of this contract. The offeror shall identify the technical standards and provisions they anticipate are applicable to this contract and provide justification for those that are deemed to be non-applicable: **************************************** 1194.21, Software applications and operating systems. __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) __(e) __(f) __(g) __(h) __(i) __(j) __(k) __(l) 1194.22, Web-based intranet and internet information and __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) __(e) __(f) __(g) __(h) __(i) __(j) __(k) __(l) __(m) __(n) __(o) __(p)

E-21

NRC3310ADAMS

Section E

1194.23, Telecommunications products. __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) __(e) __(f) __(g) __(h) __(i) __(j) __(k) 1194.24, Video and multimedia __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) __(e) 1194.25, Self contained, closed products. __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) __(e) __(f) __(g) __(h) __(i) __(j) 1194.26, Desktop and portable computers. __(a) __(b) __(c) __(d) **************************************** The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible, without significant alterations, if so required by the NRC in the future. The offeror shall also identify the functional performance criteria (36 CFR 1194.31) they anticipate will apply to this contract and provide justification for those that are deemed to be non-applicable: ___ (a) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided. ___ (b) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided. ___ (c) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided. ___ (d) Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided. ___ (e) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided. ___ (f) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.

E-22

