<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHC1013-15-R-0004.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHC1013-15-R-0004.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>DISN Optical Network Enhancement Link 38 PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS) as of 06 February 2015

Contract Number: Task Order Number: Tracking Number: Follow-on to Previous Contract and Task Order Number:

(completed by the KO at time of contract or TO award) (completed by the KO at time of TO award or N/A) (completed by the KO when complete package is received) Not Applicable

1. Contracting Officer Representative (COR) a. Primary COR. Name: Organization: Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC): Address: Phone Number: Fax Number: E-Mail Address: b. Alternate COR. Name: Organization: DoDAAC: Address: Phone Number: Fax Number: E-Mail Address: 2. Contract or Task Order Title This PWS defines requirements for the Contractor to provide dark fiber, equipment, and commercial facilities to support Department of Defense (DoD) users in the Continental United States (CONUS). This PWS further defines requirements for the Contractor to install, integrate, and test Optical Line Amplifier (OLA), Junction, and service delivery node (SDN) equipment and provide Operations and Maintenance (O&M) support in commercial fiber facilities. In addition, this PWS defines the requirements for the Contractor to provide end-to-end transmission and professional support services to include, but not limited to, Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) diversity and resiliency capabilities, system integration, and system upgrades. Michael A. Giles IE132 HC1047 6910 Cooper Ave Ft Meade 20755-0549 (301) 225-2429 michael.a.giles2.civ@mail.mil Benjamin K. Warren IE132 HC1047 6910 Cooper Ave Ft Meade 20755-0549 301-225-2574 benjamin.k.warren.civ@mail.mil

3. Background

Attachment 1, PWS Page 1 of 28 Pages

The Defense Systems Information Agency (DISA) provides world-wide telecommunications services to the Department of Defense, Other Government Agencies, and mission partners throughout the world to meet various missions and requirements. 4. Objectives This PWS includes a new Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) fiber optic link along with the installation of various telecommunications equipment at new facilities. The work shall effectively include the purchase of new equipment and installation of said equipment at the targeted facilities where the IRU fiber strands intersect. The Optical Transport Network will be 100 Gigabyte/second ("100G") 6500 Packet-Optical Transport Network (P-OTN) and tie into the current DISN. This work will provide network connectivity to additional DoD sites to meet one of DISA's missions of providing telecommunications services to the DoD, Other Government Agencies, and mission partners throughout the world to meet various missions and requirements. 5. Scope The scope of this PWS includes all services and supplies necessary to perform the objective, to include programmatic, engineering, and other technical services and the procurement of all necessary equipment and components. The work and services to be performed shall be subject to the requirements and standards contained in the following: o o o This PWS and any other materials included in the Request for Proposal file Contractor's technical and cost proposal In the event of a conflict between the PWS and the Contractor's proposal(s), the PWS will control

6. Performance Requirements The task areas under this contract are provided below. ˇ Task Area - 1: Program management, reporting, meetings and reviews The Contractor shall provide the program planning, design, coordination, control, and reporting. ˇ Task Area - 2: Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment The Contractor shall Engineer, Furnish, Install, Secure, and Test (EFIST) and make operational a new 100G 6500 P-OTN consisting of fiber, amplifier and SDN locations detailed in the CONUS Site Specific Manufacturing Bill of Materials (MBOM) (Attachment J2). MBOM provided as Attachment J2 is based on expected engineering and may change based on fiber characterization data provided by the awarded Contractor. Equipment purchases in Attachment J2 will include an extended 3-year Manufacturer's warranty with Next Business Day (NBD) advanced parts replacement coverage. This coverage should include the Manufacturer's 24 x 7 Technical Support service and access to the Manufacturer's Global Technical Support Center for administering support incidents. The 3-year extended warranty should also include the Manufacturer's software subscription called Smart Support. Smart Support includes software upgrades at no cost during the period of performance as well as full software technical support and bug fix support. Contractor equipment purchases in Attachment J2 will become government furnished equipment (GFE).

Attachment 1, PWS Page 2 of 28 Pages

The Government, in conjunction with technology refreshing its current transport network to 100 Gbps (P-OTN), will be adding new sites with the same capabilities and monitoring systems. The fiber network must provide for a robust, flexible, long-term solution for dedicated infrastructure, diverse route connectivity, transmission and integration services, equipment and capabilities necessary to provide the data transport needs of the DoD. The Contractor must provide acceptable tested and IRU 2 fiber strands from: o Tinker Air Force Base (AFB), OK Building 3900 or 3001. From Tinker AFB the route must connect to Fort Sill, OK Building 1645 or 462. If Building 1645 is chosen as the starting point above, the route must continue from Fort Sill, OK, Building 462 and connect to Barksdale AFB, LA (Building 3447 or 7212). If Building 462 is chosen as the starting point above, the route must continue from Fort Sill, OK, Building 1645 and connect to Barksdale AFB, LA (Building 3447 or 7212). From Barksdale AFB, LA the route must connect to Fort Polk, LA (Building 1830). From Fort Polk, LA the route must terminate at Keesler AFB, MS (Building 1101).

o

o o

The Contractor must provide full turnkey implementation EFIST of Ciena 6500 equipment on the IRU fiber compatible with the current 100Gbps P-OTN. ˇ Task Area - 3: Operation and Maintenance and Sustainment services for fiber and associated assets The Contractor shall provide and perform all the requirements necessary for sustainment of all IRU assets and associated co-location facilities and equipment. This entails, but may not be limited to, backbone fiber, associated co-location facilities, and end-to-end transmission for (SDNs) including GFE equipment within commercial and Government facilities. Task Area 1- Program management, reporting, meetings and reviews 6.1 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 6.1.1 Initial Project Review (IPR)

Upon award the Contractor shall conduct an Initial Project Review (IPR) to present the project plan to include, but not limited to, the project schedule, programmatic requirements, technical requirements, and implementation schedule for the requirement. The review shall be conducted 30 days after authorization to proceed and should also include a discussion of any known risks, unresolved issues, and problems as well as mitigation strategies. The Contractor shall support the following in preparation for the meeting: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Coordinate location requirements and logistics necessary to conduct the meeting Identify issues, problems, and/or opportunities to improve services and systems Track and report installation progress to date Prepare and submit meeting minutes

Attachment 1, PWS Page 3 of 28 Pages

The exact date(s) and location(s) will be determined through coordination between the Government and the Contractor. All subsequent status updates will be reported in the Monthly Progress Report.

DELIVERABLE 001: Initial Project Review DELIVERABLE 002: IPR Meeting Minutes DELIVERABLE 003: Monthly Progress Report

6.1.2

Comprehensive Implementation Plan

The Contractor shall develop a Comprehensive Implementation Plan (CIP) to integrate and manage activities associated with implementing any equipment modifications to the existing infrastructure. The Contractor's CIP shall define procedures, specific approaches, and schedules required to complete the implementation activities listed below ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Survey, engineer, and accomplish pre-installation activities related to the preparing the fiber, e.g., fiber testing and splicing to GFE lateral fibers and site (hut/ central office) specific support services, e.g., HVAC, power, backup power, access control, etc. Perform site preparation Obtain approvals and permits Implement fiber network Operate and maintain the installed fiber and equipment

The CIP shall include all aspects, to include supplier provided end-to-end services and integration of DISN diversity and resiliency capabilities. 6.1.2.1 Security The CIP shall include a section that details the approach for implementing physical security and information assurance requirements detailed in this PWS and the Functional Requirements Specification (FRS) (Attachment J3). As part of the Comprehensive Implementation Plan (CIP), the Contractor shall include a security implementation plan, which provides a documentation trail. As part of the site surveys, the Contractor shall document its ability to accommodate the security requirements that are contained herein. 6.1.2.2 Site Notification The CIP shall include a section that identifies the Contractor's approach for notifying the site personnel of pending installations and pending Contractor-conducted testing. The CIP shall also describe the approach for resolving issues at the site during the installation and testing period. 6.1.2.3 Risk Management The CIP shall include a risk management section detailing how the Contractor manages program risk throughout the life of the program. This section shall address the Contractor's risk management practices,

Attachment 1, PWS Page 4 of 28 Pages

mitigation strategy and mechanisms for controlling resources and schedules. Risk items include potential delays associated with Contractor/subcontractors performance and construction permits.

6.1.2.4 Project Schedule The Contractor shall include a schedule for completing the work contained in the associated PWS task, including all required reviews and testing. This schedule shall identify milestones for all facets of engineering and implementation. The Contractor's implementation schedule shall conform to the priorities established by the Government. The CIP shall address the process to accommodate schedule changes caused by disruptions. The schedule shall be developed in coordination with the Government. The Contractor shall notify the Government 30 days in advance of any changes so the Government can coordinate the schedule impact. DELIVERABLE 004: Comprehensive Implementation Plan DELIVERABLE 005: Project Schedule 6.2 FIBER TESTING The Contractor shall provide detailed test plans and procedures for supporting fiber and equipment installation acceptance. The Contractor shall test all DISN fiber by span from one Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) to adjacent FSDP. Prior to purchase of fiber specific optical equipment, the Contractor shall complete fiber attenuation testing for each fiber span designed to employ P-OTN equipment. The P-OTN equipment requires accurate measurements of the fiber loss between amplifiers for successful amplifier operation. DELIVERABLE 006: Fiber Test Plans and Procedures DELIVERABLE 007: Fiber Test Results 6.3 EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION DESIGN The Contractor shall develop an Engineering Design Package (EDP) per amp and SDN site for completing installation of equipment in the Contractor and Government facilities on the new fiber backbone. The EDP will contain site-specific information for installing the equipment prior to integration into the fiber backbone. The Contractor shall perform the installation, configuration and testing of the equipment based on their EDPs. The Contractor shall include the final installation and configuration details of each amp and SDN site in the as-built drawings and documentation. All installation related materials (IRM) shall be provided by the Contractor. Jumper connections between the equipment and the fiber shall be appropriate for the 6500 P-OTN equipment. The equipment shall be installed in strict accordance with the equipment manufactures detailed installation procedures. At Government Service Delivery Node (SDN) locations, equipment must also be installed in accordance with the DISN Implementation Standards dated 30 Jan 2013 (Attachment J4). The Contractor shall acquire any required permits and approvals necessary for the installation. The Contractor shall deliver on CD in Adobe pdf "As Built" drawings and documentation showing the final configuration and placement of Government equipment in all facilities.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 5 of 28 Pages

DELIVARABLE 008: Engineering Design Package DELIVERABLE 009: As-Built Drawings 6.3.1 Optical Equipment Testing

The Contractor will perform P-OTN testing between Government Services Delivery Nodes (SDN). The P-OTN consists of OLA equipment and associated channel specific equipment such as terminals, regenerators, and Reconfigurable Optical Add Drop Multiplexers (ROADM) located at the SDN and Junction Nodes. The testing will evaluate all equipment on the link. All test data (including updates) shall be documented and provided to the Government no later than 10 days after testing or update, as applicable. DELIVERABLE 010: OLA & SDN Test Data 6.4 SYSTEM INTEGRATION The Contractor will integrate the OLA and SDN sites with the fiber and the network management elements into a complete operating system. The Contractor shall lead in the integration effort with assistance from the Government Network Support Center (GNSC). The Contractor shall work together with the GNSC team during integration and provide on-call troubleshooting, repair, and technical expertise support of the backbone, access fiber, and fiber facilities. Integration support may require Contractor persons being at several different fiber, OLA, or SDN locations at the same time. System integration support will terminate when Full Operational Capability (FOC) is declared and the P-OTN network is successfully installed, tested, and integrated with Government approval. The Government reserves its right to witness any testing. The Contractor shall provide a minimum of ten working days' notice prior to conducting any acceptance testing. The Contractor shall perform necessary adjustments or corrections to any service deficiencies prior to Government acceptance. Government personnel and/or representative access to the Contractor's facilities shall be arranged by the Contractor to support this activity. DELIVERABLE 011: Network Acceptance Test Results Task Area 2 - Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment 6.5 GENERAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS The following section provides additional requirements and technical specifications that apply to this contract. This section also provides fiber and equipment installation and implementation procedures and requirements. This section also includes network management and information assurance requirements. The Contractor shall adhere to all prevailing telecommunications industry standards for the work required herein, and to any unique Government requirements as stipulated within any attachments to the contract. FOC shall be achieved for the work contained herein and is defined as: complete and satisfactory delivery of this required service, in accordance with all of the conditions of this PWS and associated contract. Government approval of the Contractor's test results shall be deemed the final compliance step to attain FOC.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 6 of 28 Pages

6.5.1

General Fiber Requirements

The Contractor is expected to ensure the IRU fiber and associated assets remain in compliance with the requirements detailed in this PWS and FRS (Attachment J3). All fiber and equipment installed and implemented under Task Area 2 shall comply with the appropriated subsections under the PWS and the FRS. 6.5.2 Fiber Count

Fiber Optic Cable strands (two) shall be provided between the FSDP identified in Task Area 2. All access fiber installations shall consist of a minimum of 12 strands in a single fully buried duct dedicated for use solely by the Government with one empty duct alongside. These ducts shall be a minimum 50 mm in diameter. If the access fiber exists, then no additional fiber is required. 6.5.3 Definition of the Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP)

The FSDP is defined as the fiber patch panel located at the Government/non-Government facilities. Figure 6.5.3 depicts the notional location of the FSDPs. Figure 6.5.3 Depiction of FSDPs and spans (Notional)
SEGMENT
FSDP FSDP SPAN SPAN SPAN SPAN FSDP FSDP FSDP

SDN

SDN

HUT* Government Base / Site

HUT*

HUT* Government Base / Site

Fiber Optic Patch Panel

FSDP

FSDP

SPAN

Fiber Optic Patch Panel

AMP

AMP

HUT*

HUT*
* Could also be a central office facility

6.5.4

Amplifiers and Other Optical/Electrical Transport Equipment

The Contractor shall provide the OLA configurations and OLA equipment designs for each of the Contractor's facilities. The fiber shall work with the proposed P-OTN equipment.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 7 of 28 Pages

DELIVERABLE 012: OLA Configuration and Equipment Design 6.5.5 Signal Reach

The fiber shall support all wavelengths and required transmission rates with a minimum reach of 2000 kilometers without electronic regeneration. 6.5.6 Outside Plant

The Contractor shall be responsible for all permits, environmental compliance requirements, easements, and rights of way. All work shall be done in accordance with the requirements listed in the following sections unless superseded by the local Government regulations. The Contractor shall provide adequate facilities including uninterrupted power, suitable operating environment and required physical security in accordance with FRS Section 1.3, Facilities and Section 1.5.4, Facility Security. Fiber optic cable shall be suitable for the environment in which it is installed and shall adhere to the requirements listed in the FRS unless superseded by the local Government regulations. 6.5.6.1 Required Fiber The Contractor shall provide dark fiber for the fiber "strings" (segments) identified in Task Area 2. The fiber to be furnished between two (2) locations on a string will be a composite of backbone fiber (where available) and two (2) pieces (known as access fiber). An access path's length must not extend farther than the first central office or hut from the base. If new fiber is required for a repair, site relocation, or technology refresh, the base may have existing fiber ducts that can be used for pulling new fiber to some of the locations. For all of the fiber segments that run on base, the Government will work with the Contractor on utilizing existing on-base fiber paths/trenches, if possible. Unless otherwise directed by the Government, all SDNs shall have at least two access paths. For those locations (Base/Post/Camp/Station) that have two nodes (dual node situation) the Contractor shall ensure two separate, diverse paths access these nodes. Figure 6.5.6.1 Diversity Requirements for the Notional Optical Mesh Network

Attachment 1, PWS Page 8 of 28 Pages

Backbone fiber
A

C E
CLASS 1 NODE

CLASS 2 NODES CLASS 2 NODE

Access Path A-1
SDN SDN

Access Path A-2 B-1
SDN SDN

Access Path B-2

Two fiber access paths leaving a location with one pair each

Two fiber access paths leaving a location with two pairs in one access path and one pair in the other

A C B D E F G

6.5.6.2 Fiber Between Dual Nodes on a Base If the Contractor needs to repair or replace existing dark fiber on a Government base between two SDNs, the Contractor shall consult with the appropriate base communications personnel/management (e.g., Army Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) on using existing base conduits, trenches, etc.). The Contractor shall fully coordinate and consult with the appropriate base communications personnel if new fiber is proposed to be trenched on base. 6.5.6.3 Vaults, Manholes, Hand-holes When trenching new fiber paths in order to repair or replace existing dark fiber, the Contractor shall construct manholes and hand-holes to provide access and cable slack points at appropriate points in the fiber path. New facilities of these types shall be constructed in a manner that meets or exceeds the Contractor's existing construction standards used in the network. These facilities shall be resistant to tampering and vandalism. Vaults, manholes, and/or hand-holes shall be sited at regular intervals, where necessary for fiber access, splicing, etc. These facilities shall be installed in accordance with the FRS. 6.5.6.4 Underground Installations Direct-burial fiber is not acceptable; a conduit/duct shall protect the fiber. Underground fiber shall be installed in accordance with FRS Section 1.2.7. 6.5.6.5 Aerial Installations Aerial fiber is not acceptable unless Government approval is granted in very limited cases where fully buried cable is not feasible due to environmental, technical, or economic circumstances. In cases where

Attachment 1, PWS Page 9 of 28 Pages

aerial installation is approved by the Government, aerial fiber shall be installed in accordance with FRS Section 1.2.8. 6.5.6.6 Fiber Path Fiber optic cable shall be suitable for the environment in which it is installed, (e.g., aerial installations may be equipped with a jacket designed for UV exposure, underground cable may be gel-filled and suitable for duct installation, etc.) and shall adhere to the requirements listed in the FRS unless superseded by the local Government regulations. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer Representative in writing when local regulations supersede the Government requirements as stated in the PWS and/or FRS. All services must adhere to the requirements of the PWS and attachments thereto. The fiber path between any two points shall be the most direct path feasible with regard to geographic obstructions and rights of way. The fiber path shall be installed such that any active network elements along that path (i.e., amplifiers and regenerators) can be passively protected from electromagnetic interference (e.g., noise immunity). 6.5.6.7 Detailed Fiber Maps, Data and Drawings The Contractor shall develop a fiber map (as well as supply Straight Line Diagrams). The map shall identify how the Contractor satisfies all applicable Government connectivity. The fiber map shall contain detailed maps (street level) and drawings that contain or reference data on the type of fiber, depth of installation, date of manufacture, date of installation, Bi-directional Optical Time Domain Reflector (OTDR) trace, Spectrum Analysis, Chromatic Dispersion value at 1550nm, Optical Signal to Noise Ratio (OSNR), length of fiber, number of splices, PMD, easements, rights of way, huts, manholes, hand-holes and Central Office locations. The Contractor shall provide these underlying data (latitude/longitude) using the Visio diagrams and/or spreadsheets. The Contractor shall update the fiber map for any changes as the result of repairing or replacing existing fiber and shall designate if the fiber is existing or new, and if new, if it will be pulled in existing ducts or if it will require trenching. All fiber shall be identified as buried or aerial. Detail of geographic location, distances involved and description of aerial application (construction type and height of aerial poles; metal, wood, high tension, etc.) shall be provided for all aerial fiber segments proposed for the dedicated use of the Government. DELIVERABLE 013: Detailed Fiber Map 6.5.6.8 Splicing and Handling Requirements All splicing shall use fusion-splicing technique. Connectors shall only be present at FSDPs. All connectors shall support the technical requirements as specified in the FRS (1.2.3 Fiber Performance). The Contractor is required to provide ancillary material and consumables for splicing, testing, and related aspects of the fiber implementation. Splicing shall be in accordance with the requirements of the cable manufacturer as well as required splicing and termination/connector loss specified in the FRS (1.2.6 Splicing and Handling Requirements). 6.5.6.9 Facilities The following requirements pertain to enclosures such as Huts / Diversity Intermediate Line Amplifiers (ILAs) parks, amplifier spaces, secure facilities, and any other items that may fall under this category. The spaces or enclosures may be existing or new, and may be used jointly by the Government and the

Attachment 1, PWS Page 10 of 28 Pages

Contractor. Sufficient real estate/floor space shall be provided such that both front and rear access to the installed GFE equipment is possible. If installed in an outdoor enclosure, the enclosure shall be hardened to protect against access and vandalism. If installed in an area adjacent to right-of-way for vehicular traffic (such as roadways, freeways, waterways, or rail lines), the enclosure shall meet the safety standards of the authority having jurisdiction over the right-of-way. Where required by the needs of the equipment, the enclosure shall be furnished with environmental support (heating, cooling, humidity control, dust filtering) on a 24x7x365 basis. Day-to-day power shall be provided and backed up via Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS). Emergency power shall also be available (in the event of commercial power failure), using battery, UPS, emergency generator systems, or a combination thereof for a minimum of 10 hours while the commercial power is out. The enclosure shall meet the requirements as outlined in FRS Section 1.3. No equipment room, facility, or secure portion of a facility shall display or refer to DoD or Federal ownership of equipment or fiber. The Contractor shall allow the Government to install/implement an out-ofband communications access circuit to Government equipment for management and control purposes. The Contractor shall provide rack space for up to 2 racks in the huts where amplifiers are required by the Government. At regenerator sites, up to 4 rack spaces shall be provided.

6.6 INSTALLATION AND IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS The following subsections detail implementation and installation requirements for dark fiber and optical equipment when necessary to repair and replace existing fiber. 6.6.1 Environmental Assessment (EA) Survey

The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) applies to the United States (includes CONUS, Alaska, Hawaii, and U.S. territories), and directs that all federal agencies give appropriate consideration to the environmental effects of their decision making on major federal actions affecting the quality of the environment. DoD Directive 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major DoD Actions (Enclosure 2), directs DoD to a documented decision making process, where proposed actions may result in significant harm to the environment of a foreign nation or protected "global resource." Because the Government must consider the environmental issues in its decision making process, the Contractor shall produce an Environmental Assessment (EA) for each site where new trenching is required to repair or replace existing fiber. Each EA shall fully address the environmental concerns of 40 C.F.R. Parts 1500 through 1508. The EA shall be prepared to facilitate expedited consideration. As a minimum, an EA shall address: 1) the affected environment (40 C.F.R. Section 1502.15), 2) the environmental impact(s) of the proposal (40 C.F.R. Section 1502.16), and 3) a listing of agencies and persons consulted (40 C.F.R. Section 1502.17). See 40 C.F.R., Section 1508.9. When new trenching is required to repair or replace fiber on base, posts, or stations, the Contractor shall contact the office (base, post, or station) responsible for environmental affairs to determine if an EA has been done for the routes planned and, if so, shall utilize the existing EA(s).

Attachment 1, PWS Page 11 of 28 Pages

DELIVERABLE 014: Environmental Assessment 6.6.2 Dark Fiber Installation

6.6.2.1 The Contractor shall be responsible for all aspects of the installation of dark fiber for the DoDIN, including preparation of commercial locations for supporting amplification, and regeneration, according to the requirements given in the FRS (Attachment J3) under this contract. The Contractor shall plan and manage the activities necessary to accomplish all activities undertaken with respect to fiber installation. 6.6.2.2 Fiber installation consists of, but is not limited to, implementation and testing of the fiber links and business management processes. The Contractor shall provide the personnel and plans to accomplish a seamless and expeditious installation at both the Contractor and Government facilities. 6.6.2.3 The Contractor shall include a fiber installation plan as part of the Comprehensive Implementation Plan (CIP). The Contractor shall be responsible for conducting site surveys of all Contractor facilities and the Government sites to validate the ability to accommodate the requirements that are contained herein. 6.6.3 Installation Requirements

Contractor installations shall be in accordance with standard industry practices, standards, and guidelines. The Contractor shall maintain on-site at all times one copy of the as-built drawings. The Contractor shall be responsible for connecting the fiber between the DoDIN SDNs covered by the contract according to the schedule approved by the Government and to the requirements in the FRS. The Contractor shall perform site preparation and inside cabling to complete service delivery. This includes inter-building and intra-building on posts, camps, and stations. 6.6.3.1 FSDP Connection Requirements The Contractor shall be responsible for providing connection from its fiber network to each DoDIN Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP). It is permissible to share the patch panels with other users. The Contractor shall obtain rights of way, permit easements, environmental compliance requirements, and approvals for installation of all required DoDIN routes. Installed fiber cables used to transport DoDIN requirements shall fully comply with all requirements of the FRS. 6.6.3.2 Sites Survey Documentation for DoDIN Fiber Installations at Government Facilities The Contractor shall prepare site survey documentation, which identifies any site preparation requirements such as intra and inter facility fiber route drawings and locations that require ducting/trenching, installation and modification of equipment, and facility configurations. Plans, including drawings, shall be complete and conform to industry standards before work permits, digging permits, etc., are issued and installation can start. The Contractor shall be responsible for site preparation work necessary to accomplish fiber delivery. Site preparation includes providing any required interconnect facilities, cabling, and ducts necessary to bring the backbone fiber to the FSDP. The Contractor shall coordinate and receive Government approval to conduct any and all site preparation work at Government facilities. All work done by the Contractor under this contract shall conform to ANSI/TIA-606-B-2012 and ANSI/TIA-607-B-2012; all-appropriate national and local codes, all other directives referenced within this contract, and shall conform to highest commercial industry standard installation and repair practices. All work and code compliance shall be subject to Government review and approval.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 12 of 28 Pages

DELIVERABLE 015: Site Survey Documentation 6.6.3.3 Pulling Cable The Contractor shall not exceed the pulling tensions prescribed by the cable manufacturer specifications at any time when handling and installing cables. The Contractor shall certify in the Test and Acceptance Report that cables installed have not been stressed beyond their specified limits. 6.6.3.4 Approvals and Permits The Contractor shall obtain all local (including base, post, camp, and station approvals) and regional permits and permissions to install fiber and modify facilities necessary to provide DoDIN fiber. At all sites, the building owner's representative shall approve any required changes to the facility. If necessary, the Contractor may request permission to use Government facilities, utilities, service or real estate to support Contractor fiber installation. 6.6.3.5 On Premise Cabling For all installations (unless otherwise required) the Contractor shall provide inside cabling and install appropriate cable cross-connects between the Government and Contractor's patch panels at the FSDP. The Contractor shall coordinate with the building manager and make all arrangements for service installations as the Government's representative. New on-premise cabling to support fiber installation shall conform to the following standards and requirements. In the event the local code exceeds those stated below, the local code shall be followed. Any new on-premise cabling will comply with the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ANSI/TIA -570-C, August 16, 2012 ANSI/TIA-568-C Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standards, February 2009 ANSI/TIA -569-C Commercial Building Standards for Telecommunications Pathways and Spaces, May 3, 2012 ANSI/TIA-606-B Administration Standard for the Telecommunication Infrastructure of Commercial Buildings, June 2012 National Electrical Code NPA-70, October 1999 meeting

The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer Representative in writing when local code exceeds the standards and requirements identified above. 6.6.3.6 Drawings for the Fiber Installation For each DoDIN service installation, the Contractor shall submit as-built drawings to the Government. The as-built drawings shall show final configurations of the installation. Information shall include: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Information showing the right-of-way, location of the running line, relative to permanent landmarks, including but not limited to, railroad mileposts, boundary crossings and utility crossings Splice locations Manhole and handhole locations Cable marker locations Conduit or ducting information (type, length, expansion joints, etc.)

Attachment 1, PWS Page 13 of 28 Pages

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Cable information (straight line diagrams, type of fiber, type of cable, date of manufacture, date of installation, fiber burial depth, cable/fiber identifier(s), and cable lengths) Notation of all deviations from specification (e.g., depth) Facilities (hut/central office) locations Origin and destination of each fiber (originating/terminating facility) Bi-directional OTDR traces of each fiber span Maps of any dissimilar fiber types within a span Locations of all optical events (e.g., splices, connection points) on the fiber Information that maintains manhole progression for each route that correlates optical distances (obtained via the OTDR) to physical landmarks such as manholes, buildings, bridges, etc. Locations of maintenance slack coils to facilitate response to maintenance requirements

The Contractor shall provide as-built drawings for the Government SDN locations showing their additions and/or changes. The Contractor shall provide as-built drawings for the Contractor-owned facilities (e.g., huts) showing DoDIN fiber and equipment. The required information for Contractor-owned facilities shall include but not be limited to cross-connects, floor space depicting Government racks, rack elevation view, floor loading requirements, and ducting. DELIVERABLE 016: Fiber As-Built Drawings Task Area 3 - Operations and Maintenance 6.7 MAINTENANCE PLAN Contractor shall provide, operate, and maintain the dark fiber and facilities, and repair the fiber during the life of the contract by providing support for 24 hours, 7 days a week, and 365 days a year. The overall system availability shall be 99.9% calculated monthly. The Contractor will continue to provide O&M support for amplifiers, regenerators, and terminal equipment. When a fiber optic cable failure (e.g., cable cut) occurs, the following response and repair times in Table 6.7 shall be met. Table 6.7 Response and Repair Time for Fiber Failure Fiber Path Response Time Repair Time1 Terrestrial/Aerial 2 hours 8 hours 1 Indicates maximum repair time. Repair time starts once personnel arrive on-site The Contractor shall provide a Maintenance Plan that details its fiber operations and maintenance approach, process, and procedures to meet the requirements of this PWS. The Contractor shall submit any proposed changes to the Government for review and concurrence prior to updating the Maintenance Plan. As part of the Maintenance Plan, the Contractor shall provide a process, subject to Government approval, to notify the Government via a web based tool, telephone, FAX, etc. within 10 minutes of the time the fiber failure is discovered. DELIVERABLE 017: Maintenance Plan

Attachment 1, PWS Page 14 of 28 Pages

6.8 OLA MAINTENANCE The Contractor shall provide maintenance of the OLA equipment in Contractor facilities for the life of the contract. The Contractor's Maintenance Plan shall outline its plan to provide two (2) types of maintenance support; Corrective and Preventative. In addition, the plan shall include a section on spare equipment management, where the Contractor shall describe how much spare equipment will be required and managed for maintenance purposes based on, but not limited to, the equipment manufacturer's failure rate Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF), the response and repair times, and the Contractor's field experience. The Government will provide the spares as GFE. Corrective and Preventative maintenance requirements are described as follows: Corrective maintenance ­ The OLA equipment located at the Contractor facilities will be managed and controlled by the Government. The Contractor shall have no active or passive monitoring capability of the equipment. Therefore, the Government, through the Global NetOps Support Center (GNSC), will notify the Contractor of corrective maintenance action needed. The Contractor shall maintain and repair equipment during the life of the contract by providing support 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, and 365 days per year. The Contractor shall respond to equipment failures after notification by the GNSC in accordance with the schedule in Table 6.8. Upon completion, the Contractor shall provide a brief report to the GNSC describing the fault and the remedy taken for each event, both telephonically and electronically. Preventive maintenance ­ The Contractor shall outline in the Maintenance Plan how it will provide preventative maintenance of OLA equipment in accordance with the equipment vendor's specifications (i.e., MTBF). The Contractor shall notify the GNSC at least twenty-one (21) working days in advance of preventative maintenance and any potential down time of equipment.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 15 of 28 Pages

Table 6.8 Response and Repair Time for OLA Equipment Failure Event Response Time1 Restore Time2 Co-location OLA 2 hours 8 hours Equipment 1 Indicates maximum Response time after notification by GNSC. 2 Indicates maximum Restore time. Restore time starts once personnel arrive on-site. 6.9 AUTHORIZED SERVICE INTERRUPTION (ASI) PROCEDURES When a scheduled service interruption cannot be avoided, the Contractor shall obtain the approval of the DISA Theater ASI Manager before initiating any scheduled outage. To obtain such approval, a written "DISA ASI Request Form" must be submitted via email to the appropriate DISA ASI Manager with a copy sent to that Watch Officer (WO). The Contractor is expected to always minimize the duration of requested down time to ensure that contracted services are available to the U.S. Government to the maximum extent possible. This is possible only through appropriate planning, preparation, and/or use of alternate or spare facilities whenever possible. When a service interruption is required, the Contractor shall comply with the following criteria to identify the type of circuit release request categorization that applies to the service maintenance or interruption request. ROUTINE: Routine service interruptions are for those conditions that do not meet the criteria of Demand, Urgent or Hazardous Condition (HAZCON) maintenance activities. The Contractor's service release request shall be submitted and identified as a "Routine" request at least 27 calendar days prior to the execution. All power ASI requests must be made 45 days prior to the execution date. All requests will include a primary and an alternate date requested; failure to do so may result in denial of the service interruption. Request for routine facility maintenance should be made at least 30 days prior to the execution date. URGENT: Urgent service interruptions are for those conditions that do not meet the criteria of a Routine, Demand or HAZCON maintenance activities. Urgent service interruptions are generally limited to imminent or significant operational directed actions. The Contractor shall immediately notify the appropriate ASI Manager as soon as it is known that there is a need for an urgent service interruption to allow for as much lead time as possible for coordination. The Contractor's service release request shall be submitted and identified as an "Urgent" Request inside of a 28-day period interruption timeframe. A justification statement to waive the 28-day notification must accompany the request if notice is submitted within 28 days of the execution date. All requests will include a primary and an alternate date requested; failure to do so may result in denial of the service interruption. The Service and Agency NOC in coordination with the appropriate ASI Manager will review the request and justification for approval. If disapproved, requests will be returned to the requestor and must be resubmitted following normal ASI procedures. DEMAND: Demand service interruptions are for those conditions that do not meet the criteria of a Routine, Urgent or HAZCON maintenance activities. Demand service interruptions are for those conditions that must be addressed as soon as possible to correct significant deficiencies on DoDIN facilities, networks, or system resources or correct a problem that could severely impact a customer or mission if not corrected. The Contractor shall make every reasonable attempt to notify the appropriate DISA ASI Manager immediately to maximize coordination arrangements for the service interruption. Demand maintenance must be completed as soon as possible but no longer than 72 hours from the date of the request. The ASI Branch will send a message, when requested and if time allows, to all concerned that this action

Attachment 1, PWS Page 16 of 28 Pages

will take place. After normal duty hours the SCO or WO will process the demand maintenance actions. Demand service interruptions are considered unscheduled incident reportable events. HAZCON: A HAZCON is a maintenance action that is expected to cause no service interruption or outage to customers or one where secondary or backup resources have been allocated. The Contractor shall submit and identify the service release request as a "HAZCON" and define it as either a ROUTINE/URGENT/DEMAND ASI based on the guidelines previously mentioned. NON-SERVICE AFFECTING: The Contractor shall submit and identify the service release request as a "Non-Service Affecting Request" at least 5 calendar days prior to the maintenance event for cases where the service maintenance action will only result in a loss of service(s) for 50 milliseconds or less for the Contractor to perform maintenance on a tertiary power source. All ASI Requests shall include, at minimum, the below information. (1) Contractor making request, name and phone number of representative responsible for managing circuit release; (2) Circuit servicing Contractor NOC with phone number that can be contacted 24 hours a day and 7 days a week; (3) Organization performing maintenance; (4) DITCO CSA and CCSD number of circuit for which the request is being submitted; (5) Location of maintenance action by city(s) and state(s), only, or the approximate proximity and compass direction thereof; (6) Primary Date and inclusive start and stop times in GMT/ZULU for the request, along with an alternate and/or multi-phased event request by date(s) and start and stop time(s); (7) Purpose for the request; (8) Impact of maintenance action (Outage, Switch Hits, etc.); (9) Statement of whether the Contractor requires access to a Government site; (10) Statement of whether the Contractor requires access to a Government facility to perform maintenance; (11) Statement indicating all equipment, parts, and/or supplies required to complete action are on-hand, or their expected delivery date; (12) Statement indicating that all avenues of bypass capability (e.g., alternate facilities, spare facilities, etc.) have been considered; (13) Estimated maximum recovery time to restore circuit; (14) Contractor ticket number to track maintenance action. If an ASI Request requires the Contractor to have escort access into a Government facility, the Contractor shall submit two ASI Requests using two separate e-mail messages. The first ASI Request shall identify the building number and the maintenance downtimes. The second ASI Request shall have all remaining fields completed. This purpose for the separation is to prevent unnecessary aggregation of sensitive information (ex., Government SDP detail) and dissemination in unclassified domains and media per the DISN Classification Guide. The respective DISA ASI Manager is the sole authority for approving Authorized Service Interruptions. Failure of the Contractor to obtain an approved ASI prior to initiating a scheduled outage will constitute an unauthorized outage. Service interruptions without prior notification and approval (unless justified as emergency action) will also constitute an unauthorized outage. Unscheduled outages are not in compliance with the contract. The Government reserves its right to seek credits and other consideration as set forth in the contract for any nonconformance to performance standards. The Government may also terminate any portion of this requirement that repeatedly fails to maintain the contracted level of service or if

Attachment 1, PWS Page 17 of 28 Pages

the Contractor repeatedly fails to comply with the ASI procedures. 6.9.1 ASI Approval/Disapproval The DISA ASI Managers will notify the Contractor of approval or disapproval and will attempt to establish a mutually agreeable primary and alternate maintenance date. The DISA ASI Managers will typically notify the Contractor within 7 calendar days regarding routine requests and between 1 to 3 calendar days for most other release request types. 6.9.2 Prior To and After ASI Completion For each approved ASI, the Contractor shall contact the appropriate DISA NOC 30 minutes prior to the scheduled outage (to obtain final clearance to proceed), upon implementation of the ASI, and immediately upon completion. The Contractor will also notify the appropriate DISA NOC of any significant unanticipated impacts/outages in order to update the associated trouble ticket. If the maintenance was not successfully completed, cancelled, rescheduled, or failed, the Contractor shall provide the reason to the DISA NOC, which will update the trouble ticket. The Contractor shall follow the ASI Request procedures to reschedule maintenance that was not successfully completed. All information required in the ASI Request will be complete and accurate upon submittal, to include the "Required ASI Documentation Checklist" when applicable. Use of a Contractor's automated system generated form is permissible as long as the form includes all information required to be in the ASI Request. 6.9.3 Escalation Procedures and Contacts The Contractor shall provide its escalation procedures and designated points of contact to the Government within 15 days after award. Subsequent changes to the Contractor's escalation procedures and contact information shall be provided to the Government within 24 hours of the change implementation. An upto-date version of the Contractor's escalation procedures and contacts shall be provided for each IPR. The procedures shall include a description of the circumstances under which issues shall be escalated with associated timelines. The Contractor escalation contacts shall be accessible on a 24x7 basis. All escalation procedures and contact information and coordination shall be at no additional cost to the Government. The Contractor shall provide a name and contact number for a designated Network Operations Manager and Tier II Engineer that must be available 24x7 and/or return a customer escalation call within 30 minutes. The Contractor shall have a 24x7 NOC that will guarantee access within ten minutes to a live technician who can perform the following tasks: ˇ ˇ ˇ Create trouble reports Provide basic troubleshooting support in a technically proficient manner Engage next level support within five minutes

DELIVERABLE 018: Escalation Procedures and Contacts

Attachment 1, PWS Page 18 of 28 Pages

6.10

Disposal Procedures

The Contractor shall provide a separate DD Form 1149 for all equipment prior to disposing or returning to Government. All photonic cards will be returned to the Government. Funds recovered from disposal of remaining equipment will be used to fund the cost of disposal. If additional funding is required it will be identified as part of this proposal in accordance with FAR 52.245-1 Government Property. 7. Performance Standards The Contractor shall adhere to all prevailing telecommunications industry standards for the work required herein, and to any unique Government requirements as stipulated within any attachments to the contract. Performance Standard Deliverables are submitted on time and the Contractor manages performance of the overall requirement in accordance with the Project Schedule. Contractor ensures performance of all tasks meet the requirements of the PWS and standard DISA requirements (e.g TSRs, SCLs). Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) Deliverables contain required information and are delivered on time at least 90% of the time. Revisions that occur are minor and are resolved in a satisfactory manner. Schedules and provided implementation plans are accurate 90% of the time. Issues that occur are minor and are resolved in a satisfactory manner. All installation will be of the same quality as similar equipment in the same facility Random inspection of installations will be conducted. Method of Surveillance Random inspection of deliverable products and services.

OLA installations will conform to accepted Telecom practice for other installations in contractor facilities Testing and test data will meet manufactures requirements to ensure the equipment functions as designed System integration will be acceptable when the link passes the 72 hour Bit Error Rate (BER) test with no errors 8. Incentives

All test data will be provided to the government engineering team and GNSC for review and historical records. All test data will be provided to the government engineering team and GNSC for review prior to any service being activated.

The Government will perform random review of the test data to ensure it complies with equipment manufactures requirements. 100% inspection of and acceptance of all test data prior to any service activation.

Performance shall meet the standards identified in paragraphs 6 and 7 above. If performance standards are not met, the Contracting Officer may seek remedies available under the terms and conditions of the contract. Task Area 1:

Attachment 1, PWS Page 19 of 28 Pages

For any failure to meet the Acceptable Quality Level in submitting deliverables and any failure to meet the delivery date in accordance with the implementation schedule, the Government may seek consideration, which may include, but is not limited to, reductions in contract price. Task Area 2: Performance shall meet the standards identified in the PWS and the FRS. If performance standards are not met, the Contracting Officer may seek remedies available under the terms and conditions of the contract. Task Area 3: If repair and response times are longer than required by the PWS, the Contractor shall grant the Government a maintenance credit. The maintenance credit shall be provided in accordance with Outage Clause in Section H. 9. Place of Performance The work shall occur at each of the following Government locations (aka, "sites"). Exact locations/facilities and dates for work shall be coordinated subsequent to contract award. Work shall also occur in the commercial sites needed to connect these sites to the network.

Location State Code TIN Tinker AFB OK SIL Fort Sill OK POL Fort Polk LA KEE Keesler AFB MS BAR *Barksdale AFB LA *Contractor to quote building to Barksdale AFB between Sill and Polk City Note: Work in government sites will be performed to install and test the equipment prior to activation. Travel in and around the primary place of performance may be required throughout the period of performance. Additional travel within Southeast CONUS may be required to support the requirements of this PWS. Alternate Place of Performance - Contingency Only. As determined by the Contracting Officer Representative (COR), Contractor employees may be required to work at an alternate place of performance (e.g., home, the Contractor's facility, or another approved activity within the local travel area) in cases of unforeseen conditions or contingencies (e.g., pandemic conditions, exercises, Government closure due to inclement weather, etc.). Non-emergency/non-essential Contractors should not report to a closed Government facility. The Contractor shall prepare all deliverables and other contract documentation utilizing Contractor resources. To the extent possible, the Contractor shall use best efforts to provide the same level of support as stated in the PWS. In the event the services are impacted, reduced, compromised, etc., the Contracting Officer or the Contractor may request an equitable adjustment pursuant to DFARS 252.237-7023(f) of the contract.

Attachment 1, PWS Page 20 of 28 Pages

10. Period of Performance The contractor will provide the Government an IRU fiber link for 10 years. The period of performance for the operations and maintenance of this requirement is a 1-year base period with nine 1-year option periods. In accordance with DFARS 252.237-7023, the Contractor shall continue performance in emergency or mission essential conditions. Additionally, the Contractor may be required to account for the whereabouts of their personnel should this information be requested by the COR. 11. Delivery Schedule The following table represents the required deliverables under this contract. The contractor-determined format must be approved by the Contracting Officer Representative (COR). This list may be updated as new deliverables are added or modified. All installation and test and turn up work must be completed within eight months of award.

PWS Sec. 6.1.1

Deliverable Title Initial Project Review

Format ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products

Due Date 30 days after authorization

Distribution/Copies Standard Distribution*

Frequency and Remarks As required

6.1.1

Monthly Progress Report

25th of each month

Standard Distribution*

Monthly

6.1.1

IPR Meeting Minutes

5 days after meeting

Standard Distribution*

As required

6.1.2

Comprehensive Implementation Plan

6.1.2.4

Project Schedule

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats Contractor shall deliver utilizing Mi-

Draft 15 days after modification to network is identified and final no later than 30 days after Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award

Standard Distribution*

As required

Standard Distribution*

6.2

Fiber Test Plans and Procures

Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award

Standard Distribution*

6.2

Fiber Test Results

Within 10 days after test completion

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes Updates provided 30 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes One-time

6.3

Engineering Design Packages

Draft with proposal, final within

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 20 days after plan is

Attachment 1, PWS Page 21 of 28 Pages

crosoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

30 days after site install

6.3

As-Built Drawings

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

6.3.1

OLA and SDN Test Data

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Provided within 10 days after testing

Standard Distribution*

6.4

Network Acceptance Test Results

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Provided within 10 days after testing

Standard Distribution*

6.5.4

6.5.6.7

OLA Configurations and Equipment Design Detailed Fiber Map

6.6.1

Environmental Assessments

6.6.3.2

Site Survey Documentation

6.6.3.6

Fiber As-Built Drawings

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. Adobe PDF and CAD Formats. ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. Executive summary max limit of 2 pages. and total page count not to exceed 10 pages ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award. Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided within 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided within 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Update as required.

Standard Distribution*

Update as required.

Draft 30 days after identification of need for repair/replacement for each site requiring trenching and final no later than 60 days after Draft 10 days after conclusion of site survey and final 30 days after Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

As required.

Standard Distribution*

As required.

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to

Attachment 1, PWS Page 22 of 28 Pages

6.7

Maintenance Plan

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products

Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award

Standard Distribution*

6.9.3

Escalation Procedures and Contacts

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products

Within 15 Days of Award.

Standard Distribution*

updating. Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. As required.

12. Security Requirements DISA retains the right to request removal of contractor personnel, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interests of the Government. The reason for removal will be fully documented in writing by the Contracting Officer. When and if such removal occurs, the contractor will within ten (10) working days, assign qualified personnel to any vacancy(ies) thus created. 12.1 Access to Government Sites The Government reserves the right to refuse at any time, without notice, access to Government sites. All personnel entering or leaving the Government's complexes or Government sites are subject to a search of their persons or possessions at any time and without notice. Unless the parties to this contract agree otherwise, all site diagrams, pictures, and any documentation of any sort associated with this project become the property of the U.S. Government and must be handled in accordance with all applicable security regulations and as directed by the cognizant Contracting Officer Representative. a. A clearance is not required for this contract. Contractor personnel will be escorted at all times when access to Government facilities is required. b. The contractor may be required to access Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) and For Official Use Only (FOUO) information and data in order to perform the work necessary on this contract. c. The Contractor may be required to access proprietary data and existing FOUO Government documentation IAW DoD5200.1-R, Appendix C, paragraphs 2-202 ­ 2-204. d. Per DISA Public Affairs, CIO and Security (MPS) offices: public release of Program Specific Information and SCI/SAP material is unauthorized.

References: a. DoD 5200.2-R, DoD Personnel Security Program b. DISAI 240-110-36, Personnel Security c. DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual d. DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation e. DISA Computing Services Directorate (CSD) Security Handbook f. DoDM 5200.01, Information Security Program, 24 February 2012

Attachment 1, PWS Page 23 of 28 Pages

12.2 Visit Authorization Letters The Contractor will forward a Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) to the COR at the address listed in paragraph 1 above for employee the program manager and contracts manager. The VAL shall be on company letterhead or pre-fabricated form and contain the following information: Contract number with start and end dates CAGE CODE Company point of contact (POC) and telephone number Government POC/COR name and telephone number Complete legal name of employee(s) Social Security Number Security Clearance level, date granted, and Adjudication facility name, i.e. DISCO Type of personnel security investigation (PSI) pending or completed Date PSI completed Security Contacts. DISA Security Personnel can be contacted for security related questions as follows: For Industrial Security related issues: Biniam Idriss, phone: (301) 225-1229 Defense Information Systems Agency ATTN: MPS61, Industrial Security Command Building 6910 Cooper Ave. Fort Meade, MD 20755-7088 12.3 Physical Security Physical security is the physical action taken to protect network resources (e.g., installations, personnel, equipment, electronic media, documents, etc.) from damage, loss, theft, or unauthorized physical access. All network central offices and switching and wire centers shall comply with GR-63-CORE, Network Equipment ­ Building System Requirements. The DoDIN will be considered critical infrastructure and therefore requires Critical Infrastructure and Protection controls to be used for protection of DoDIN components and resources. The Contractor shall provide all ballistics protection rating information for all Contractor sites containing Government related fiber and/or equipment. The Contractor shall provide Government security staff access to physical security monitoring information of appropriate Contractor facilities. At a minimum, the physical monitoring intrusion detection system shall provide the following: ˇ Alarms indicating potential unauthorized physical access to facilities

Attachment 1, PWS Page 24 of 28 Pages

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Alarms indicating environmental thresholds have been exceeded (smoke/fire alarms, failed airconditioning, loss of power, etc.) Alarms indicating threatening water levels in all component equipment rooms subject to flooding Positive indication that the physical security monitoring system is in working order and a means to indicate tampering with any elements of the system Alarms shall be provided/relayed to the Government in a "near real time" manner

If steel cages for network infrastructure components are used at node sites the cages shall meet all of the requirements specified in the Fiber IA and Physical Security requirements in the FRS and shall provide the same physical monitoring information of the intrusion detection system as noted above.

12.4 Government Evaluation The Contractor shall make accessible to the Government all Contractor sites, including huts, facilities, and co-location sites, in order to establish initial security requirements compliance, Certification and Accreditation (C&A) compliance, and for routine audits to regularly assess security mechanisms. Regularly scheduled assessments shall include Contractor cooperation to validate security requirements compliance. The Contractor shall cooperate in support of evaluation procedures and all components supporting Government fiber. Specifically, for C&A, the Government will conduct a formal Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) to determine the overall security of the network. This will include an evaluation of all accessible Contractor sites. The Contractor shall cooperate with the Government personnel and the Government's representatives, who plan, conduct, and report the Government testing. The Contractor shall support the Government testing as outlined in Government test plans. Contractor support of Government testing shall include: ˇ ˇ Government or its agent access to Contractor facilities, test points, test personnel, and all components used to support the network Government ability to review all Contractor documentation used to support the fiber

The Contractor shall resolve, within 30 days, problems resulting from the evaluation process including vulnerability assessments and security findings. Resolution shall include: ˇ ˇ ˇ Component technical changes Procedures for correcting security findings Providing assistance with follow-on security reports

13. Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) 13.1 General If any GFE is provided the Contractor shall receive, inspect for damage, inventory and track GFE at the Contractor's designated facility. The GFE will be delivered directly from the equipment manufacturer or a Government warehouse to the Contractor's facility. The Contractor shall mark equipment as GFE in accordance with the FAR. The Contractor shall have personnel and material handling equipment available at its designated facility to facilitate the receipt and inventory of the equipment. The Contractor shall

Attachment 1, PWS Page 25 of 28 Pages

be responsible and liable for Government property in their possession, unless otherwise provided by this contract. 13.2 Inventory Management The Contractor shall be responsible for the GFE inventory from Contractor receipt of GFE until released from accountability as directed by Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall establish and maintain a program for the use, maintenance, repair, protection, and preservation of Government property in accordance with sound industrial practice and the requirements of FAR 52.245-1. The Contractor shall maintain property accountability of GFE equipment in accordance with FAR 52.245-1. 13.3 Transfer of GFE The Government will transfer GFE to the Contractor via this contract and DD Form 1149. The Government and the Contractor shall conduct a joint inventory of GFE delivered to the Contractor's facility. All receipt documents must be included as part of the accountability record file (i.e., shipping documentation, packing list, and Bills of Lading). The Contractor shall manage and maintain GFE equipment under this contract and in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations and via DD Form 1149. 13.4 GFE Report of Discrepancy When the Contractor discovers a discrepancy or damage to any GFE, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Government of the loss or damage. The Contractor shall provide a Report of Discrepancy on the loss or damage within three working days to the Government and the Contractor will provide disposition instructions.

14. Other Pertinent Information or Special Considerations. 14.1 Contract Close Out The Contractor shall perform the contract phase-out activities necessary for cutover and to support the transition to replacement services as this contract approaches the end of its performance period. The Contractor shall coordinate with and assist the follow-on Contractor in establishing the most cost-effective method for transitioning from this contract to any replacement contract without degrading existing service.

14.2 Key Personnel Key Personnel changes and substitutions shall be in accordance with DARS Clause 52.237-9000. For the purposes of this effort, the following positions are considered key personnel: Program Manager Technical Lead 14.3 Identification of Possible Follow-on Work Government will reserve the right to conduct Technology Refreshment (Tech Refresh) of the equipment on this link, if required during the contract period of performance. Tech Refresh is defined as the periodic replacement of equipment on a DoD system to assure continued supportability and performance of that

Attachment 1, PWS Page 26 of 28 Pages

system through an indefinite service life. Any Tech Refresh update will be incorporated by modification when the Government determines it necessary. 14.4 Packaging, Packing and Shipping Instructions The Contractor shall be responsible for shipping defective equipment to the manufacture as part of the Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) process. The Contractor shall be aware of unique embarkation and receipt policies and procedures for packing, handling, storage and transportation of Government Furnished Equipment utilizing best military and commercial transportation practices. 14.5 Property Accountability The Contractor shall submit the attached Electronic Product List (see below) in addition to complying with all requirements of DFARS 252.211-7003. See DARS 52.211-9000, Requirement to Submit an Electronic Product List for additional information.

EPL Worksheet_v1.1_03J

14.6 Department of Defense (DoD) Enterprise Service Management Framework (DESMF) Compliance All IT service requirements contained within this PWS shall be conducted in accordance with the DESMF which can be accessed at https://community.apan.org/esmf_consortium_working_groups/m/desmf_ed_ii/default.aspx. 15. Section 508 Accessibility Standards The following Section 508 Accessibility Standard(s) (Technical Standards and Functional Performance Criteria) are applicable (if box is checked) to this acquisition. Technical Standards 1194.21 - Software Applications and Operating Systems 1194.22 - Web Based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications 1194.23 - Telecommunications Products 1194.24 - Video and Multimedia Products 1194.25 - Self-Contained, Closed Products 1194.26 - Desktop and Portable Computers 1194.41 - Information, Documentation and Support The Technical Standards above facilitate the assurance that the maximum technical standards are provided to the Offerors. Functional Performance Criteria is the minimally acceptable standards to ensure Section 508 compliance. This block is checked to ensure that the minimally acceptable electronic and information technology (E&IT) products are proposed. Functional Performance Criteria

Attachment 1, PWS Page 27 of 28 Pages

1194.31 - Functional Performance Criteria

Attachment 1, PWS Page 28 of 28 Pages


Customer.Name= 23
Design.Name= 23
Design.Code= 23
Design.Revision= 23
Design.DCR_Level=
generator= mpbp
generator.version=
run.user=
run.date_time=
PARTS.By_Site
Product Phase Description _ _ PEC _ Qty/Site
TIN_4D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_22a_22b_34_38 Link_38_AMP1
Link_38 FTSILL_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP2
Link_38 Link_38_AMP3
Link_38 Link_38_AMP4
Link_38 Link_38_AMP5
Link_38 Link_38_AMP6
Link_38 BARKSDALE Link_38_AMP7
Link_38 Link_38_AMP8
Link_38 Link_38_AMP9
Link_38 FTPOLK Link_38_AMP10
Link_38 Link_38_AMP11
Link_38 Link_38_AMP12
Link_38 Link_38_AMP13
Link_38 KEE_3D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_6a_6b_38
# Product Item TIN_4D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_22a_22b_34_38 Link_38_AMP1
Link_38 FTSILL_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP2
Link_38 Link_38_AMP3
Link_38 Link_38_AMP4
Link_38 Link_38_AMP5
Link_38 Link_38_AMP6
Link_38 BARKSDALE_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP7
Link_38 Link_38_AMP8
Link_38 Link_38_AMP9
Link_38 FTPOLK_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP10
Link_38 Link_38_AMP11
Link_38 Link_38_AMP12
Link_38 Link_38_AMP13
Link_38 KEE_3D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_6a_6b_38 Total
# Description Code Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty Qty
#   Converged Packet Optical 65XX Ciena Quote #
# 6500
# CUSTOMER NETWORK INTEGRATION CODES
# Testing & Staging
6500.0 OME6500 14 SLOT STAGE EACH SHELF 800-6514-SIF 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
6500.0 OME6500 32 SLOT STAGE EACH SHELF 800-6532-SIF 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 PACKS IN PLACE KIT, S-SERIES NTYY99CS 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
6500.0 6500-32 SLOT SHELF, SHIP-IN-PLACE KIT NTK603A3E6 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# 6500 SHELF CONFIGURATIONS
# 6500 Shelves
6500.0 6500 14-SLOT PACKET-OPTICAL SHELF ASSEMBLY NTK503SA 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
6500.0 6500 32-SLOT PACKET-OPTICAL SHELF ASSEMBLY NTK603AB 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# AUXILLARY SHELF EQUIPMENT
# Shelf Brackets
6500.0 14-SLOT BRACKET KIT (NTK503SA) NTZF99XF 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Power Cables (for CPL BIP/FIP and 3rd Party Power Supplies)
6500.0 CABLE, PWR; 2.5M, 8AWG, 2W2C RA -NO CONN. NTTC01AJE6 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 26.0
# Cooling Unit Equipment
6500.0 6500-14, FRONT HF FAN MODULE NTK507LDE5 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 39.0
# Auxillary Shelf Equipment
6500.0 COVER KIT, OPTICAL SHELF, R3, LEFT LIFT-OFF HINGED NTK509CCE6 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Shelf Brackets for OME 6500 32-Slot Shelf
6500.0 BRACKET KIT, OME-DD, 567 C-C, 127 S/B, 2 INCH HOLE PITCH NTK609MBE6 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# Cooling Unit Equipment for 32-Slot Shelf
6500.0 OME - DD FRONT COOLING TRAY NTK607AAE5 2.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 16.0
# Auxillary Shelf Equipment for 32-Slot shelf
6500.0 OME DD SHELF FRONT COVER NTK609CAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 6500-32 SLOT FRONT COVER EXTENSION KIT NTK609CZ 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# Auxillary Shelf Equipment for 32-Slot packet shelf
6500.0 6500-32 SHELF FRONT AIR BAFFLE PLATE TYPE 2 (USE FOR REAR-ONLY EXHAUST) 410-5423-001 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 6500-32 SHELF REAR AIR BAFFLE PLATE TYPE 2 (USE FOR FRONT-ONLY EXHAUST) 410-5424-001 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# COMMON EQUIPMENT
# Filler Card
6500.0 INTERFACE FILLER PACK NTK505YAE5 16.0 11.0 36.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 36.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 36.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 17.0 284.0
# Shelf Processor
6500.0 6500 REL 9.32  SHELF PROCESSOR (SP-2 DUAL CPU FOR 6500-7/14/32) KIT NTZF06JY 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 42.0
# Access Panels
6500.0 ACCESS PANEL, CNVD (SONET) NTK505MBE5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Power Input Interface
6500.0 40A POWER INPUT CARD ASSY (BREAKERED)  2 WIRE INPUT NTK505CEE5 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 26.0
# Maintenance Interface Card
6500.0 MAINTENANCE INTERFACE CARD 5/6 NTK505FBE5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Filler Card (32S)
6500.0 OME-DD CROSS CONNECT FILLER MODULE, DOUBLE HEIGHT NTK605XAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# Access Panels (32S)
6500.0 OME-DD ACCESS PANEL (SONET) NTK605MAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# Power Input Interface (32S Packet)
6500.0 6500-32 4X60A POWER INPUT CARD TYPE 2 (BREAKERED) NTK605GA 2.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 16.0
# BROADBAND INTERFACES
# eDC100G Circuit Packs
6500.0 EDC100G WL3 OCLD PREMIUM 1XOTU4 C-BAND CIRCUIT PACK NTK539UH 3.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 17.0
6500.0 100G OCI MULTI-PROTOCOL 1X CFP CIRCUIT PACK NTK529AC 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 100GBASE-LR4  & OTU-4 CFP, LC CONNECTORS NTTA03BJE6 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 10X10G MUX MULTI-PROTOCOL 10XXFP CIRCUIT PACK NTK529BBE5 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 9.0
6500.0 OC-192 SR-1, STM-64 I-64.1, G.693 VSR2000-2R1, ITU G.959.1 OTU2 P1I1-2D1, 10G FC 1200-SM-LL-L, 10GBASE-LW/LR WITH/WITHOUT OTN FEC WRAPPER (1310 NM, SMF, 10KM), 0-70C XFP MODULE NTTP84BA 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 10.0 90.0
# PHOTONIC COMPONENTS
# Colourless/Flex OADM
6500.0 6500 COLOURLESS 12 CHANNEL MUX DEMUX C-BAND CIRCUIT PACK NTK508FAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 9.0
6500.0 OME6500 50GHZ SELECTIVE MUX DEMUX C-BAND 8X1 CIRCUIT PACK NTK553GAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 WAVELENGTH SELECTIVE SWITCH (WSS) FLEX C-BAND W/OPM 9X1 CIRCUIT PACK NTK553LA 2.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 16.0
# Amplifier Modules
6500.0 MIDSTAGE LINE AMPLIFIER CIRCUIT PACK NTK552BAE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 SINGLE LINE RAMAN AMPLIFIER (SRA C-BAND) W/OSC 1X SFP 10/100 BT WSC CIRCUIT PACK NTK552JA 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 35.0
6500.0 SWITCHABLE LINE AMPLIFIER (XLA C-BAND) NTK552KA 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
# Small Form Pluggables for OSC Circuit Pack (NTK554BAE5)
6500.0 TRANSCEIVER,CWDM,DWDM-OSC,38DB,1511NM,3.3V,0TO70C,SFP,20PINS,LC,ENHANCED MSA NTK592NGE5 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 34.0
# SOFTWARE / SOFTWARE RTUs
# OME Software Loads
6500.0 6500 AND CPL REL 9.32 S/W DVD NTK562JY 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 16.0
# 6500 NE RTUs
6500.0 OME 6500 BASE RTU (PER NE) NTK560AA 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
6500.0 OME 6500 32-SLOT SHELF BASE RTU (PER NE) NTK560CJ 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
# Software Tracking Certificates
6500.0 6500 REL 9.32 CERTIFICATE NTK569JY 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
# 6500 Feature NE RTUs (Existing)
6500.0 NTK560DQ 6500 INTEGRATED TEST FUNCTION RTU (PER CIRCUIT PACK) NTK560DQ 3.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 17.0
# 6500 Photonic RTUs
6500.0 OME 6500 DI-OADM RTU (PER WSS) NTK560CR 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 6500 COLOURLESS RTU (PER CCMD12) NTK560CU 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 9.0
# 6500 Photonic RTUs (Existing)
6500.0 OME 6500 ROADM RTU NTK560BP 2.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 16.0
6500.0 OME 6500 AMPLIFIER RTU NTK560BQ 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Site Manager for 6500
6500.0 6500 REL 9.32 SITE MANAGER RTU NTNM34UJ 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 18.0
# Optical Application Platform RTUs
6500.0 ONM BASE FOR OME6500 14-SLOT RTU NTNM70EJ 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
6500.0 ONM BASE FOR OME6500 32-SLOT RTU NTNM70ER 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 8.0
6500.0 RTU, ONM BASE FOR OME6500 WSS CARD NTNM70ET 2.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 16.0
6500.0 RTU, UMS BASE PER 100G OCLD CARD NTNM70FB 3.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 17.0
# DOCUMENTATION
# Technical References
6500.0 6500 REL 9.3 NTPS AND GUIDES CD-ROM NTK564JG 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 16.0
# PROJECT RELATED EQUIPMENT
# Bay Assemblies
6500.0 RACK, 23IN EIA WIDE 12-24, 7FT - 44RU, NEBS SEISMIC ZONE 4 CERTIFIED @ 875 LBS., PLATED FINISH 600-1057-001 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
# Bay Accessories
6500.0 SMALL OPTICAL INSTALLATION/IRM KIT NTK509NZE6 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
6500.0 INTERBAY FIBER MANAGER, 7  FT 399-0001-030 1.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 1.0 11.0
6500.0 ENDCAP FOR INTERBAY FIBER MANAGER, FOR 399-0001-030 399-0001-031 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 5.0
6500.0 NEWTON - SEISMIC UFER ANCHOR KIT-NEBS APPROVED   (M12-50) NEWTON-2221280111 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
# Installation Kits for Breaker Interface Panel
6500.0 2U BIP POWER LUG KIT 6AWG/16MM SQ 90 DEGREE NTK599ZAE6 4.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 4.0 32.0
# Bay Miscellaneous Components
6500.0 1U FIBER MANAGEMENT TRAY NT0H57BBE6 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 13.0
# Site Dependent Material
6500.0 INSTALLATION RELATED MATERIAL -DEPLOYMENT SERVICES BILLING 800-DEPL-IRM 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 18.0
_ENDFILE_
Project Notes
LINK 38 Fiber and Amplifiers distances are estimated.
TIN quoted for additional HW. Added 1 rack, 1 shelf, 1 DIA, 1 Degree, 2 10x10G and 1 1x100G card pairs to the HW already ordered under Phase 1.
FTSILL quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
BARKSDALE quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
FTPOLK quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
KEE quoted for additional HW. Added 1 rack, 1 shelf, 1 DIA, 1 Degree, 1 10x10G and 1 1x100G card pairs to the HW already ordered under Phase 1.
Customer.Name= 23
Design.Name= 23
Design.Code= 23
Design.Revision= 23
Design.DCR_Level=
generator= mpbp
generator.version=
run.user=
run.date_time=
PARTS.By_Site
Product Phase Description _ _ PEC Price.Each _ Qty/Site
TIN_4D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_22a_22b_34_38 _ Link_38_AMP1
Link_38 _ FTSILL_2D_ROADM
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP2
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP3
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP4
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP5
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP6
Link_38 _ BARKSDALE _ Link_38_AMP7
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP8
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP9
Link_38 _ FTPOLK _ Link_38_AMP10
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP11
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP12
Link_38 _ Link_38_AMP13
Link_38 _ KEE_3D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_6a_6b_38 _
# Product Item Net Price TIN_4D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_22a_22b_34_38 Link_38_AMP1
Link_38 FTSILL_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP2
Link_38 Link_38_AMP3
Link_38 Link_38_AMP4
Link_38 Link_38_AMP5
Link_38 Link_38_AMP6
Link_38 BARKSDALE_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP7
Link_38 Link_38_AMP8
Link_38 Link_38_AMP9
Link_38 FTPOLK_2D_ROADM
Link_38 Link_38_AMP10
Link_38 Link_38_AMP11
Link_38 Link_38_AMP12
Link_38 Link_38_AMP13
Link_38 KEE_3D_ROADM_ADDS
Link_6a_6b_38 Total
# Description Code Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price Qty Ext Price
#   6500
# PROJECT RELATED EQUIPMENT
# Installation Related Material
6500.0 Installation Related Materials Estimate for Frames / Bays. 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
6500.0 Installation Related Materials Estimate for Shelves. 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 21.0
# Optical Patchcord, LC-LC, SM, Duplex
6500.0 Optical Patchcord 52.0 14.0 80.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 80.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 80.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 42.0 516.0
#   Subtotal
# Total NET Price - 6500
#  
# Total NET Price USD
_ENDFILE_
Project Notes
LINK 38 Fiber and Amplifiers distances are estimated.
TIN quoted for additional HW. Added 1 rack, 1 shelf, 1 DIA, 1 Degree, 2 10x10G and 1 1x100G card pairs to the HW already ordered under Phase 1.
FTSILL quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
BARKSDALE quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
FTPOLK quoted for full config for Link 38.  Includes 2 racks, 2 shelves, 2 Degrees, 2 DIA, 2 10x10G and 2 1x100G card pairs for Link 38.
KEE quoted for additional HW. Added 1 rack, 1 shelf, 1 DIA, 1 Degree, 1 10x10G and 1 1x100G card pairs to the HW already ordered under Phase 1.
FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS SPECIFICATION

Fiber Infrastructure for Next Generation Optical Transmission

FINAL VERSION

18 December 2014

2

Table of Contents LIST OF TABLES ................................................................................................................. 6 1 1.1 1.1.1 1.1.2 1.1.3 1.2 1.2.1 1.2.2 1.2.3 1.2.4 1.2.5 1.2.6 1.2.7 1.2.8 1.2.9 1.3 1.3.1 1.3.2 1.3.3 1.3.4 1.4 FIBER INFRASTRUCTURE .......................................................................................... 7 Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) and fiber Span .............................................................7 Definition of Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) ................................................................... 7 Definition of Span ................................................................................................................... 8 Definition of Segment ............................................................................................................ 8 Fiber Optic Cable ...............................................................................................................9 General Requirements ........................................................................................................... 9 Fiber Count ............................................................................................................................. 9 Fiber Performance .................................................................................................................. 9 Outside Plant ........................................................................................................................ 11 Physical Path......................................................................................................................... 12 Splicing and Miscellaneous Handling Requirements............................................................ 13 Underground Installations.................................................................................................... 13 Aerial Installations ................................................................................................................ 14 Underwater Installation ....................................................................................................... 15 Facilities..........................................................................................................................15 General Requirements ......................................................................................................... 15 Floor space ........................................................................................................................... 15 Power and HVAC .................................................................................................................. 15 Geographic Location/ Environment ..................................................................................... 16 Network Management ....................................................................................................17 3

1.4.1 1.4.1 1.4.1 1.4.2 1.5 1.5.1 1.5.2 1.5.3 1.5.4 2 3

Contractor Facility to Contractor NOC Data Feeds .............................................................. 17 Contractor NOC to RNOSC Data Feeds ................................................................................. 17 Operational and Performance Requirements ...................................................................... 17 Operations and Maintenance............................................................................................... 18 Information Assurance and Physical Security ...................................................................18 IA Implementation and Compliance..................................................................................... 19 IA Goals and Guidance ......................................................................................................... 19 Personnel Security ................................................................................................................ 20 Facility Security..................................................................................................................... 20

REFERENCES .............................................................................................................25 ACRONYMS LIST ........................................................................................................28

4

List of Figures

Figure 1.1 Depiction of FSDPs and spans (Notional) ________________________________________________ 8 Figure 1.2 Performance Criteria for a Representative Span _________________________________________ 10 Figure 1.3 Diversity Requirements for the Notional Optical Mesh Network ____________________________ 13

5

List of Tables

Table 1-1 Response and Repair Time for Fiber Cut ________________________________________________ 18

6

1

FIBER INFRASTRUCTURE

The DISN transport backbone is a physically diverse, secure high-speed transport network. It is described more specifically as follows:

1. A meshed switched optical network across North America, Europe, and Pacific Theaters.

2. A network consisting of Dense Wave Division Multiplexing (DWDM) Reconfigurable Optical Add/Drop Multiplexers (ROADMs) and Optical Line Amplifiers (OLAs).

3. A meshed switched optical network, which provides for multiple service options at the optical layer including wavelength services.

This section describes the functional specifications required for the optical fiber cable and other transmission that may be used in the DISN. Specifically, this section states the requirements for: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) Fiber Optic Cable Outside Plant Facilities Network Management Information Assurance and Physical Security

1.1 1.1.1

Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) and Fiber Span Definition of Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP)

A Fiber Service Delivery Point (FSDP) is defined as a point where dark fiber terminates at a fiber patch panel which is collocated (i.e. within the same building) with an active DoDIN network element (e.g. OLA or ROADM). Thus, FSDPs can be physically located at both Government buildings and 7

intermediate commercial facilities or "huts" [e.g. Controlled Environmental Vaults (CEVs) or Central Offices (COs)]. The FSDP for the fiber shall be a fiber optic patch panel with all fibers terminated (see Figure 1.1).

1.1.2

Definition of Span

A span is defined as a length of outside fiber optic cable (including connectors and/or splices) from one FSDP to an adjacent FSDP (see Figure 1.1) which does not contain any active network elements (e.g. OLAs or ROADMs) along the span.

1.1.3

Definition of Segment

A segment is defined as a length of outside fiber optic cable which originates at one Government Service Delivery Node (SDN) and terminates at another Government SDN. A segment is made up of one or more fiber spans (and thus contains two or more FSDPs).
FSD FSD

FS
SPAN SPAN SPAN SPAN

SDN

SDN

HUT* Government Base / Site

HUT*

HUT* Government Base / Site

Fiber Optic P

FSD

O

Fiber Optic P

OLA

HUT

HUT
FSDP

Figure 1.1 Notional Fiber Segment and Span Depiction 8

1.2

Fiber Optic Cable

1.2.1

General Requirements

Fiber optic cable will be a mission critical, physical component of the DISN. The fiber shall be of high quality; robust and able to support a myriad of functions in order to meet the overall stringent performance requirements for the DISN. Hereafter, for the described fiber criteria, [R] denotes required and [D] denotes desired. 1.2.1.1 [R] The fiber shall meet the standards put forth in the following International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) G.652 (11/2009), G.654 (10/2012), G.655 (11/2009), and G.656 (07/2010) except where superseded by the following more specific requirements here within. These detailed requirements will be outlined in the following sections. [D] For new installations, it is desired that the fiber comply with ITU-T G.654.C (10/2012) specifications.

1.2.1.2

1.2.2 1.2.2.1 1.2.2.2 1.2.2.3

Fiber Count [R] Fiber Optic Cable strands (one pair) shall be provided between designated Government SDNs. [R] If a new access fiber cable installation is to be fusion spliced to a commercial vendor backbone fiber, then the new fiber cable shall consist of 24 fiber strands in a single duct. [R] If an entire fiber span (SDP to SDP) is to be a new installation, then that fiber cable shall consist of 24, 48, 96, or 192 fiber strands (depending on the requirements for the specific installation). [D] All new fiber installations shall also have an empty duct alongside the single duct to facilitate future growth. [R] These new ducts shall be a minimum 70 mm in diameter.

1.2.2.4 1.2.2.5

1.2.3

Fiber Performance

The fiber shall meet the following criteria listed below. These criteria are based on a single span of fiber (from FSDP to adjacent FSDP). See Figure 1.2 for performance criteria for a representative span.

9

1.2.3.1

[R] The fiber span attenuation per kilometer due to all impairments (i.e., splices, connectors, etc.) shall be less than 0.23 dB/Km at 1550nm and 0.25 dB/Km at 1625nm at fiber End of Life (EOL). [R] Regardless of fiber span length, the EOL total span attenuation shall be less than 1 dB from the initial/ Beginning of Life (BOL) value.

1.2.3.2

SEGMENT

regardless of span dB max loss (due to all impairments length)

80 km splice splice

I/O Connectors (max insertion loss <= .5 dB)

EOL example span calculations: (.23 dB/km x 80 km) + loss + EOL margin =

Figure 1.2 Performance Criteria for a Representative Span

1.2.3.3

[R] For all currently installed fibers, the polarization mode dispersion (PMD) due to all impairments shall be less than or equal to 0.1 ps/km1/2 for any single fiber on the span when measured at 1550 nm. [R] For all new installations, the polarization mode dispersion (PMD) due to all impairments shall be less than or equal to 0.05 ps/km1/2 for any single fiber on the span when measured at 1550 nm. 10

1.2.3.4

1.2.3.5 1.2.3.6 1.2.3.7 1.2.3.8 1.2.3.9

[R] The chromatic dispersion measured at 1550 nm shall be >= 2.0 ps/km nm. [D] The chromatic dispersion measured at 1550 nm shall be >= 4.0 ps/km nm. [R] Installation of all fiber shall comply with ITU-T G.655 (11/2009), ITU-T K.25 (02/2000), ITU-T L.35 (10/1998), and Telcordia GR-20-CORE. [R] Any single reflectance event shall be less than -40 dB. [R] The connector reflectance at the FSDP shall be less than -50 dB.

1.2.3.10 [R] The connector/ splice insertion loss shall be less than 0.3 dB. 1.2.3.11 [R] For all new installations, the splice insertion loss shall be less than 0.2 dB. 1.2.3.12 [R] The connector shall tolerate a minimum of +33 dBm incident power. 1.2.3.13 [R] The fiber Optical Return Loss (ORL) shall be greater than 30 dB. 1.2.3.14 [R] For all currently installed fibers, the fiber age (i.e., from manufacture date) shall be less than 20 years old. 1.2.3.15 [R] The accumulated insertion losses within 20 km of an SDN shall be less than 1.0 dB.

1.2.4 1.2.4.1 1.2.4.2 1.2.4.3

Outside Plant [R] All optical fiber, optical fiber cable bundles, and optical fiber ribbons shall adhere to the requirements as specified in Telcordia GR-20-CORE. [R] All fiber cables shall also meet the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640-1992, "Standard for Fiber Optic Outside Plant Communications Cable". [R] The Contractor shall be responsible for all permits, easements, and rights of way, to include Host Nation agreements/approvals. All work shall be done in accordance with the requirements listed in the following sections unless superseded by the local Government regulations. [R] The Contractor shall provide optical fiber infrastructure using underground installation procedures per Section 1.2.7. [CR] If an underground installation is deemed cost prohibitive due to environmental constraints (e.g., rock, etc.), the Contractor shall provide optical fiber infrastructure using aerial installation procedures per Section 1.2.8 or underwater installation procedures per Section 1.2.9. [R] The fiber optic cable between any two SDNs shall be installed such that it produces less than 200 rad/sec of polarization drift [(dynamic change in State of Polarization (SOP)].

1.2.4.4 1.2.4.5

1.2.4.6

11

1.2.4.7 1.2.4.8

[R] The fiber optic cable between any two SDNs shall be installed such that it produces less than 1 dB of power fluctuation. [R] The fiber optic cable between any two SDNs shall be installed such that barring a cable cut, its performance shall not vary enough to degrade transmission. This implies that changes of environment (e.g., temperature, physical external forces, wind, etc.) shall not degrade the performance of the fiber.

1.2.5

Physical Path

This physical fiber path can consist of a path that is (1) currently part of a carrier's own fiber optic backbone network, (2) an access path, which extends from a carrier's fiber backbone to an SDN, or (3) an access path, which extends between two SDNs without the need to use a carrier's fiber backbone. Fiber optic cable shall be suitable for the environment in which it is installed and shall adhere to the requirements in the following sections unless superseded by the local Government regulations. 1.2.5.1 1.2.5.2 1.2.5.3 1.2.5.4 1.2.5.5 [R] The fiber path between any two points shall be the most direct path feasible. [R] As an option, the Contractor shall, at the Government's request, provide fiber between the two SDNs at a particular site(s). [R] No DISN fiber pair shall travel in the same physical path or through the same physical facilities as any other DISN fiber pair. [R] All SDNs shall have at least two access paths. [R] For all SDNs with greater than 2 fiber pairs coming to/ from it, the fiber pairs beyond the first and second may use the same access paths as the first two pairs, respectively (see Figure 1.3). [R]If a node is a CONUS Central Data Center (CDC), then the SDN must have a third fiber pair that traverses another diverse access path. [R] Where dark fiber is proposed for routes spanning a body of water, the Contractor shall utilize 2 separate tubes (within/on the structure) in order to satisfy physical diversity requirements. [R] DISN fiber paths shall retain a minimum separation of 50 meters from other DISN fiber paths, except where two access paths are within 50 meters of the base boundary, but it is desired they be as far apart as possible. [R] For any and all DISN fiber paths which cross over one another the Contractor shall provide a specific mitigation strategy on a case by case basis, if the Contractor cannot meet 12

1.2.5.6 1.2.5.7

1.2.5.8

1.2.5.9

the diversity requirement in FRS paragraph 1.2.5.4 (e.g. will maintain a vertical separation of a minimum of 5 meters; will reinforce one path with concrete encasement, etc.) 1.2.5.10 [R- Defense Threat Reduction Agency Balanced Survivability Assessment, Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan] Fiber paths shall maintain a minimum of 6 ft. separation within the facilities. 1.2.5.11 [D] The fiber optic cable between the Government FSDPs shall be of the same type.
Outside fiber plant span: [R] Single point Reflectances: < -40 dB [R] ORL > 30 dB
S Two fiber access paths leaving with one pair each

A

2

A
in its own fiber respective access paths access leaving path a location with each pair SThree

C C B

P

E [D] <= .05

.

All measurements dBm [ made at 1550nm
˝

Reflectance < -50 dB [ / 2

Figure 1.3 Diversity Requirements for the Notional Optical Mesh Network

1.2.6 1.2.6.1 1.2.6.2 1.2.6.3

Splicing and Miscellaneous Handling Requirements [R] The maximum total splice loss shall be less than or equal to 0.3 dB per splice. [R] All splicing shall be performed using a fusion-splicing technique. [R] Connectors shall only be present at equipment interface points at FSDPs.

1.2.7 1.2.7.1

Underground Installations [R] Direct-buried fiber is not acceptable; a conduit/duct shall protect the fiber. 13

-

1.2.7.2

[R] A fiber shall be buried at a minimum depth of 42 inches or below the frost line whichever is deeper. For areas where the fiber is not buried at a minimum of 42 inches the Contractor shall provide an explanation as to the reason for this deviation and any risk mitigation approaches used (e.g. fiber is encased in steel conduit). [R] During plowing or trenching of a facility, a warning tape shall be placed no less than 24 inches above the conduit and no less than 12 inches below grade. [R] A buried fiber cable shall have a locating wire or conductive shield. [R] For open trench and plowed construction, a warning tape shall be installed above the fiber pathway and permanently marked with a warning message advising that a fiber optic cable is below the tape. [R] Surface warning markers shall be installed every 1300 ft., as well as at road crossings and culverts. [R] For all fiber cable within a conduit, the cable may be without armor wrap, but shall be installed in conduit appropriate for the local conditions and necessary protection from electrical discharge and rodents.

1.2.7.3 1.2.7.4 1.2.7.5

1.2.7.6 1.2.7.7

1.2.8

Aerial Installations

Aerial fiber includes fiber along a bridge span. If aerial fiber is used, it shall adhere to the following requirements: 1.2.8.1 1.2.8.2 1.2.8.3 [R] Aerial fiber shall only be considered where buried conduit is neither available nor possible to construct. [R] Aerial fiber shall be encased in conduit on a physically secure structure. [R] Pole line fiber is acceptable only where no other means is available. This fiber cable shall be enclosed in a protective structure (i.e. one that minimizes impact of weather/environmental effects such as wind, rain, snow, ice, excessive sunlight, etc.) for every aerial installation. [R] Pole line fiber shall be, as a minimum, a dual armored cable. [R]Pole line fiber shall be attached to a support wire or stranded messenger cable, doublelashed at minimum. [R] The cable and all associated hardware shall meet local Government requirements for clearances over roads, driveways, freeways, rail lines, structures, waterways, or other areas. All installation practices shall include calculation of strand sag, down-guys, over-head guying, anchors, and related items. 14

1.2.8.4 1.2.8.5 1.2.8.6

1.2.9 1.2.9.1 1.2.9.2

Underwater Installation [R] Underwater and Marine cabling shall conform to International, National, State and Local laws, regulations and standards. [R] Underwater and marine cabling shall be armored and installed in such a manner and location (e.g. not a high threat area) to protect it against external aggression (e.g. anchors, fishing equipment, hooks, grapnels, coral, rocks, sharks, etc.) [R] In the event of an underwater/marine cable cut, the cable shall be repaired within 3 days.

1.2.9.3

1.3

Facilities

The following requirements pertain to all Contractor facilities (e.g., CEVs, COs, etc.), which include categories such as floor space, power, HVAC, environmental, and location concerns. 1.3.1 1.3.1.1 1.3.1.2 General Requirements [R] The Contractor shall provide secure shelters, spaces, or enclosures to house OLA and ROADM equipment along the fiber pathways between the sites. [R] The Contractor shall ensure their facilities (e.g. huts), provide adequate power, grounding, HVAC, back-up power, etc. to support new OLA and ROADM equipment.

1.3.2 1.3.2.1 1.3.2.2 1.3.2.3

Floor space [R] The Contractor shall ensure the reserved floor space can accommodate the following maximum dimensions for each rack: 27 in (w) x 84 in (h) x 32 in (d). [R] The Contractor shall reserve floor space to accommodate a minimum of 2 racks for OLAs. [R] The Contractor shall reserve floor space to accommodate a minimum of 6 racks for ROADM/ OTN Switch.

1.3.3 1.3.3.1

Power and HVAC [R] The Contractor shall ensure a minimum of two (2) 50 Amp breakers with 8 gauge cable from Bus A and B sources (in accordance with the NEC) are ready and available for each OLA rack. 15

1.3.3.2

[R] The Contractor shall ensure a minimum of six (6) 50 Amp breakers with 8 gauge cable from Bus A and B sources (in accordance with the NEC) are ready and available for each ROADM/OTN Switch equipment rack. [R] The Contractor shall provide Uninteruptible Power Supply (UPS) for all equipment. [R] The Contractor shall ensure that their facilities shall supply DISN equipment with a power availability of .99999 per site. [D] The Contractor shall ensure that their facilities shall supply DISN equipment with a power availability of .999999 per site. [R] The Contractor shall provide sufficient HVAC capacity within their facilities (e.g. huts) to accommodate equipment, which may dissipate up to 2.5 kilowatts of power per rack. Geographic Location/ Environment [R] The Contractor shall provide the GPS coordinates and street address location of all intermediate equipment facilities (e.g. huts). [R] The Contractor shall provide the as-built path and GPS coordinates for every 50 m of fiber path. [R] The spaces or enclosures furnished may be existing or new, and may be used jointly by the Government, the Contractor, and others. See Section 1.5.4 Facility Security for further requirements. [R] If installed in an outdoor enclosure, the enclosure shall be hardened to protect against access and vandalism. If installed in an area adjacent to right-of-way for vehicular traffic (such as roadways, freeways, waterways, or rail lines), the enclosure shall meet the safety standards of the authority having jurisdiction over the right-of-way. [R] If an outdoor enclosure is used, the equipment installed shall be designed and certified for use in this application, with ratings for temperature and humidity changes for the area in question, plus a safety margin of not less than +/- 10% of maximums or minimums historically encountered.

1.3.3.3 1.3.3.4 1.3.3.5 1.3.3.6

1.3.4 1.3.4.1 1.3.4.2 1.3.4.3

1.3.4.4

1.3.4.5

16

1.4

Network Management

1.4.1 1.4.1.1

Contractor Facility to Contractor NOC Data Feeds [R] The Contractor shall provide an electronic data feed that provides forwarding of near real time facility and environmental alarms to include, but not limited to, power/temperature (if available) conditions, and intrusion detection information. [R] The information provided by the data feed shall be derived from inputs obtained from Contractor's facilities, e.g. huts and other common carrier facilities. [R] Data feeds shall be consolidated at the fiber Contractor's NOC.

1.4.1.2 1.4.1.3

1.4.2 1.4.2.1 1.4.2.2

Contractor NOC to RNOSC Data Feeds [R] Data feeds shall be forwarded to the Government Regional Network Operations and Security Center (RNOSC). [R] This data feed shall comply with industry standard management protocols and/or data formats and shall properly interface with the DISN network management system at Government RNOSCs. Such industry standard protocols for data exchange include but are not limited to: CORBA, SNMP, TL1, J2EE, and XML. [R] The data feed between the fiber Contractor's management facility and each of the Government RNOSCs shall consist at a minimum of one T1 circuit. [R] The fiber Contractor shall consolidate the various data feeds and provide the Government, to the maximum extent possible, a single data feed containing facility and environmental type alarms. [R] The fiber Contractor shall also implement mechanisms to ensure delivery of its common facilities' alarms to the Government network management system. [R] The fiber Contractor shall allow the Government to install encryption devices in Contractor facilities (e.g. NOCs) in order to protect and secure the data.

1.4.2.3 1.4.2.4

1.4.2.5 1.4.2.6

1.4.3 1.4.3.1 1.4.3.2

Operational and Performance Requirements [R] The status of data feed shall be actively monitored and the availability of the interface shall be reported. [R] The data feed and its electronic interfaces shall be available 99.9% per year.

17

1.4.3.3

[R] The data feed shall be capable of forwarding all DISN management alarms to the Government RNOSC within 1 minute of the occurrence of the event.

1.4.4 1.4.4.1

Operations and Maintenance [R] When a terrestrial fiber optic cable cut occurs, the following response and repair times in Table 1-1 shall be met. Theaters CONUS Pacific Europe Response Time (on site) 2 hours 2 hours 2 hours Repair Time* 8 hours 8 hours 8 hours

Table 1-1 Response and Repair Time for Fiber Cut

1.5

Information Assurance and Physical Security

This section presents the functional requirements for Information Assurance (IA) within the fiber plant and for the commercial facilities that house Government equipment and/or fiber. Information Assurance requirements are required to be identified and included in the design, acquisition, installation, operation, upgrade, or replacement of all information technology (IT) dependent systems in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 Appendix III, Department of Defense Directive 8500.1, and Department of Defense Instruction 8500.2.

* Indicates maximum repair time. Repair time starts once personnel arrive on-site.

18

1.5.1

IA Implementation and Compliance The goal of Information Assurance is not finite; it is a continual process to mitigate the risks associated with all devices and subsystems of the DISN, with minimal to no impact on the functionality and performance of the system and services provided. DISA recognizes that Government IA requirements are more stringent than those observed in the commercial sector.

1.5.1.1 1.5.1.2

[R] In cases where an IA feature is not currently available, Contractors shall present their plan to meet the particular requirement. [R]The plan shall be presented and approved prior to the formal security test and evaluation phase of the system certification and accreditation. When, a requirement is unable to be fulfilled, alternate measures to mitigate risk to the component shall be provided.

1.5.2

IA Goals and Guidance In accordance with procedures outlined in DoDI 8500.2, the DISN is a Mission Assurance Category I (MAC I) system. The information it handles is determined to be vital to the operational readiness or mission effectiveness of deployed and contingency forces in terms of both content and timeliness. The consequences of loss of integrity or availability of the DISN are unacceptable and could include the immediate and sustained loss of mission effectiveness. The DISN systems will require the most stringent protection measures. DoDI 8500.2 provides three IA control robustness levels that characterize Mission Category I systems. The robustness levels are Basic, Medium, and High.

1.5.2.1 1.5.2.2

[R] Accordingly, the DISN is characterized as a MAC I system and therefore shall meet robustness levels characterized as "High" for integrity and availability. [R] The IA controls for confidentiality are likewise characterized through the use of Basic, Medium and High robustness levels. The controls for confidentiality utilize the medium level of robustness as this is commensurate with the handling of Sensitive or Unclassified Not Cleared for Public Release traffic. [R] In addition to DoDD 8500.1, DoDI 8500.2, the general functional requirements for IA are derived from sources that include DoD Guidance, DoD policy, commercial standards and best practices, and the National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction 7003. Where a commercial best practice is in conflict with a requirement defined in this specification or other DoD guidance, the DoD requirement shall prevail.

1.5.2.3

19

1.5.3 1.5.3.1

Personnel Security [R] The Contractor shall support explicit security roles and responsibilities. These responsibilities are partially listed in this document and shall be further explained later documents including, but not limited to, the Security Systems Authorization Agreement (SSAA) and the Service Level Agreement (SLA). [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PRRB-1] The Contractor shall provide and follow a set of rules that describe their security operations and clearly delineate security responsibilities and expected behavior of all personnel who have access. The rules shall include the consequences of inconsistent behavior or non-compliance. Signed acknowledgement of the rules is a condition of access. [R- DISAI 630-230-19, B.4.h; DOD 5200.1-R, 6-303.a] Contractor shall have protective and corrective countermeasures in place to deal with a security problem. [R- DODI 8500.2 - Attachment 4 to Enclosure 5, control number PEVC-1] A current sign-in procedure shall be in place to control visitor access to Government equipment. A detailed log of all visitors shall be maintained on site and shall be available to Government at all time. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number PRTN-1] A program shall be implemented to ensure that upon arrival and periodically thereafter, all personnel receive training and familiarization to perform their assigned responsibilities, to include familiarization in their assigned roles in Incident Response, Configuration Management, Disaster Recovery, and Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP). [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number PRMP-2] Only authorized personnel shall perform maintenance on Government equipment. The process for determining authorization and the list of authorized maintenance personnel shall be documented.

1.5.3.2

1.5.3.3 1.5.3.4

1.5.3.5

1.5.3.6

1.5.4

Facility Security

The requirements listed below shall apply to all types of Contractor facilities that house Government equipment or fiber. If the following requirements violate local government ordinance, local ordinance prevails.

1.5.4.1

Shared Facilities

If the DISN fiber or equipment is in a Contractor area and is concealed within similar commercial equipment, then the following requirements apply: 20

1.5.4.1.1

[R- DODI 8500.2 - Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number PEPF-2] Every physical access point (hut, etc.) shall be guarded or alarmed 24 X 7 X 365. Two (2) forms of identification shall be required to gain access to the facility (e.g. photo ID and key card, or a cipher lock and key card for unmanned sites.) All access points shall have the capability to be observed 24 X 7 X 365 (e.g., intrusion alarm). Physical intrusion alarms shall be centrally monitored with an automatic law enforcement response capability to alarms. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number DCDS-1] All dedicated security devices provided by the Contractor (e.g. physical intrusion detection systems) shall be documented by the Contractor and approved by the Government. [R- Security Classification Guide] Equipment or facilities shall not be marked with any reference to the United States Government, United States Government Agencies (including the Department of Defense, United States Army, etc.), the DISN, or similar references. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number ECAT-2] An automated, continuous on-line monitoring and audit trail creation capability shall be operating with the capability to immediately alert personnel of any unusual or inappropriate activity. The audit trail records shall be available for regular Government review for indications of inappropriate or unusual activity. Suspected violations of security policies shall be available for Government investigation, analysis, and reporting. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number ECAR-3] Events that will be audited include activities that might modify, bypass, or negate safeguards controlled by the system as well as actions that indicate the possible use of covert channel mechanisms. The audit trail records described above shall include:

1.5.4.1.2

1.5.4.1.3

1.5.4.1.4

1.5.4.1.5

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

User ID Successful and unsuccessful attempts to access Date and time of the event Type of event Success or failure of event Denial of access resulting from excessive number of unsuccessful access attempts 21

ˇ ˇ

Blocking or black-listing of a user ID and reason for that action Starting and ending time for access to the system

1.5.4.1.6

[R- DODI 8500.2 Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number ECRR-1] Audit records shall be retained for 5 years in a secure location. (See DISN Security Classification Guide for further information on aggregate data.) [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 4 to Enclosure 4, control number ECCD-2] Access control mechanisms shall exist to ensure that audit-data is accessed only by authorized personnel. Access to the data shall be recorded in transaction logs that shall be available for Government review periodically or immediately upon system security events. Users are notified of time and date of the last change in data content. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number COPS-3] Electrical systems shall be configured to allow continuous or uninterrupted power to perform mission or business-essential functions. This may include an uninterrupted power supply coupled with emergency generators or other alternate power source. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PEEL-2] An automatic emergency lighting system shall be installed that covers all areas necessary to maintain mission or business essential functions, to include emergency exits and evacuation routes. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PEFD-2] The local Fire Department shall receive an automatic notification of any activation of the smoke detection or fire suppression systems in the facility. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PEFS-2] A fully automatic fire suppression system shall be installed that automatically activates when it detects smoke, heat, or particles. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 3 to Enclosure 4 PEFS-1] Hand-held fire extinguishers shall be available and clearly marked. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PEHC-2] Automatic humidity controls shall be installed to prevent humidity fluctuations potentially harmful to personnel or equipment operation.

1.5.4.1.7

1.5.4.1.8

1.5.4.1.9

1.5.4.1.10

1.5.4.1.11

1.5.4.1.12

1.5.4.1.13

22

1.5.4.1.14

[R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PETC-2] Automatic temperature controls shall be installed to prevent temperature fluctuations potentially harmful to personnel or equipment operation. [R- DODI 8500.2 ­ Attachment 1 to Enclosure 4, control number PEVR-1] Automatic voltage control shall be implemented to prevent voltage fluctuations potentially harmful to equipment operations. [R] All supporting equipment (e.g. HVAC) shall be tamper resistant. [R] All Contractors shall provide documentation of facility ballistics protection in terms of commercial best practice (e.g., Underwriters Laboratories (UL) 752 Standard for Bullet Resisting Equipment or UFGS-08 34 02, Bullet-Resistant Components). [R] The level of protection with respect to UL752 or UFGS-08-34-02 must be designated. (Note: There are eight levels of protection in UL 752. There are four levels of protection in UFGS-08-34-02 - UL Medium Power Small Arms (UL MPSA), High Power Small Arms (UL HPSA), Super Power Small Arms (UL SPSA) and High Power Rifle (UL HPR).

1.5.4.1.15

1.5.4.1.16 1.5.4.1.17

1.5.4.1.18

1.5.4.2 1.5.4.2.1 ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Dedicated Facilities In some cases, the DISN fiber or equipment is separated from similar commercial equipment. In this case any of the following apply:

There are uncleared or unescorted personnel in a common area with the DISN equipment. The site already has secure areas (e.g. cages) within it. The facility cannot be secured to the requirements described in the previous section. The Government states that shared facilities is not an option at a particular facility.

In the dedicated facilities situation, then the following additional requirements apply:

1.5.4.2.2

[R- DOD 5200.1-R, Appendix G, Section B, Paragraph 5.e; DOD 5200.1-R, Appendix G, Section A, Paragraph 2.d] In secure facilities or rooms with windows in the space that are less than 18 feet above the ground, the windows shall be covered with materials that shall provide protection from forced entry which includes an Intrusion Detection System.

23

1.5.4.2.3

[R- DOD 5200.1-R, Appendix G, Section A, Paragraph 2.c] For secure facilities or rooms, all the hinge pins on all of the access doors shall be peened, brazed or spot-welded to prevent removal. [R- NSTISSI 7003 ANNEX B Paragraph 4,a, 1,d] A General Services Approved changeable combination padlock or some other similar access control device with Intrusion Detection System shall secure all access to all DISN equipment. [R] At the option of the vendor, all of the facility requirements specified in 1.5.4 can be applied to a dedicated portion of the facility. The dedicated portion of the facility shall house all of Government equipment and interfaces including the Intrusion Detection systems.

1.5.4.2.4

1.5.4.2.5

1.5.4.3 1.5.4.3.1

Fiber Protection If any of the following requirements violate local government ordinance then local ordinance prevails. [R- NSTISSI 7003, Section IV, Paragraph 5 and Paragraph 4, a,1,b] Transmission lines shall be protected adequately when they leave the facility and traverse an uncontrolled area. If Government fibers or cables are unmixed with commercial fibers, then they shall be installed in carriers constructed of electrical metallic tubing (EMT), ferrous conduit or pipe, rigid-sheet steel ducting, or some higher level of protective tube or pipe. An uncontrolled area is any area not within the secure facility, portion of the facility, or where the fiber is not protected by obscurity. Under no circumstances will this requirement lower any other requirements within this FRS. [R- NSTISSI 7003 ANNEX B Paragraph 4,a, 1,d] All access to the fiber (e.g., pull boxes, access manholes, etc.) shall be secured by a General Services Administration (GSA) approved changeable combination padlock. If GSA locks cannot be used, then a standard locking manhole cover shall be used. [R- DISN Security Classification Guide] Contractor provided fiber shall not be marked with any reference to the United States Government, United States Government Agencies (including the Department of Defense, United States Army, etc.), the DISN, or similar references.

1.5.4.3.2

1.5.4.3.3

1.5.4.3.4

24

2

REFERENCES

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16.

ANSI T1.104-1991 (R1997), Exchange-Interexchange Carrier Interfaces-Individual Channel Signaling Protocols, 1997. ANSI/ICEA S-87-640-1992, Standard for Fiber Optic Outside Plant Communications Cable, 1992. CJCSI 6510.01C, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction, Information Assurance and Computer Network Defense, (May 2001) DCID 6/3, Director of Central Intelligence Directive 6/3, Protecting Sensitive Compartmented Information within Information Systems, (1999) Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency Manual (DIAM)-50-3, Physical Security Standards for Construction of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities Department of Defense Directive 8530.2, Computer Networking Defense (CND) Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8500.1E, Information Assurance (IA), 23 April 2007. Department of Defense PKI Guidance and Policy Memorandum (August 2000) Department of Defense Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) DISAI 630-230-19, Automated Data Processing Information Systems Security Program, 9 July 1996 DoD 5200.1-R, "DoD Information Security Program Regulation," January 14, 1997. DoD Directive C- 3222.5, "Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Management Program for SIGINT Sites (U)," April 22, 1987 DoD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Guidance and Policy Memorandum (12 August 2000) DoD Directive 8500.1, Department of Defense Directive, Subject: Information Assurance, (October 2002) DoD Instruction 8500.2, Department of Defense Instruction and Attachments 1-6 to Enclosure 4, Subject: Information Assurance Implementation, (6 February 2003) DoD Directive O- 8530.1, Department of Defense Directive, Subject: Computer Networking Defense (CND), (8 January 2001) 25

17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25.

DoDI 5200.40, "DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process (DITSCAP)," 7 October 1999 EIA/RS-310D, Cabinets, Racks, Panels, and Associated Equipment, Revision E, 1996 ISO/IEC 13239:2002, High-level data link control (HDLC) procedures ITU-T G.652 (11/2009) Recommendation: Characteristics of a single mode optical fiber cable, November 2009. ITU-T G.654 (10/2012) Recommendation: Characteristics of a cut-off shifted single-mode fibre and cable, October, 2012. ITU-T G.655 (11/2009) Recommendation: Characteristics of a non-zero dispersion-shifted single mode optical fiber cable, November 2009. ITU-T G.656 (07/2010) Recommendation: Characteristics of a fibre and cable with nonzero dispersion for wideband optical transport, July 2010. ITU-T M 3010 ­ Principles for a Telecommunication Management Network, February 2000. ITU-T M.24otn Error Performance Objectives and Procedures for Bringing-into-Service and Maintenance of Optical Transport Networks, December 2003. ITU-T M.3100 ­ Generic Network Model, April 2005 ITU-T M.3400 TMN ­ Management Functions, February 2000. ITU-T X.722 ­ Open Systems Interconnection ­ Structure of Management Information: Definition of Management Information, 17 January 1992 ITU-T X.733 ­ Open Systems Interconnect ­ System Management: Alarm Reporting JROCM 134-01, Capstone Requirements Document (CRD), Global Information Grid (GIG), (August 2001) MIL-STD-188-125-1, High-Altitude EMP Protection for Fixed Ground-Based Facilities, 2005. National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Policy (NSTISSP) No. 11, "National Policy Governing the Acquisition of Information Assurance (IA) and IAenabled Information Technology Products," January 2000

26.

27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32.

26

33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39.

Non-Classified (But Sensitive) Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) Security Technical Implementation Guide, Version 1, Release 1 (February 2002) NSTISSI 7003, Section IV, Paragraph 5 and Paragraph 4, a,1,b NSTISSI No. 4009, National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction, "National Information Systems Security Glossary", (September 2000) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Transmittal Memorandum #4, Management of Federal Information Resources, dated 11/28/2000. Telcordia GR-815-CORE, Generic Requirements for Network Element/ Network System (NE/NS) Security, Issue 2, March 2002 Telcordia GR-199 ­ Operations Application Messages ­ TL1 Memory Administration Messages, Issue 6, December 2005 Telcordia GR-20-CORE, (Bellcore) Qualification: Generic Requirements for Optical Fiber and Optical Fiber Cable, Issue 3, May 2008. Telcordia GR-2998, Generic Requirements for Wave Division Multiplexing (WDM) Element Management Systems (EMSs), Issue 2, Jan 2000. Telcordia GR-499, Transport Systems Generic Requirements (TSGR): Common Requirements, Issue 4, November 2009. Telcordia GR-820, Generic Digital Transmission Surveillance, Issue 2, December 2010 Telcordia GR-833 ­ TL1 Surveillance and Maintenance Messages, Issue 7, Dec 2010 Telcordia GR-63 NEBS Requirements: Physical Protection, Issue 4, April 2012 The DISN Mission Need Statement (MNS), JROCM 047-95, (March 1995) TMF 513 ­ Multi-Technology Network Management Business Agreement , Release 3.5 TMF 814 ­ Multi-Technology Network Management IDL Solution Set , Release 3.5 TMF-608 ­ Multi-Technology Network Management Information Agreement , Release 3.5 10 U.S.C. 2224 ­ Defense Information Assurance Program, 2010

40.

41.

42.

43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49.

27

3

ACRONYMS LIST

ANSI CDC CEV CIAO CIO CIP CMS CO CONUS COOP CoS COTS D DEW DIAM Diffserv DISA DISN DM DoD DWDM EAI

American National Standards Institute Central Data Center Controlled Environmental Vault Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office Chief Information Officer Critical Infrastructure Program Configuration Management System Central Office Continental United States Contingency Of Operations Plan Class of Service Commercial Off-The-Shelf Desired Directed Energy Weapons Defense Intelligence Agency Manual Differentiated Services; also Diff-Serv Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Information Systems Network Degraded minutes Department of Defense Dense Wave Division Multiplexing Electronic Alarm Interface 28

EBGP EDI EGP E-LSP EM EMI EMP EMS EOL ESCON ESF F FRS FSDP G Gb/s GbE Gbps GFE Ghz

External Border Gateway Protocol Electronic Data Interchange Exterior Gateway Protocol EXP-inferred-Per Scheduling Class LSP Electromagnetic Electromagnetic Interference Electromagnetic Pulse Element Management Systems End Of Life Enterprise System Connection Extended Superframe Future Functional Requirements Specification Fiber Service Delivery Point Gigabit per Second Gigabit per Second Gigabit Ethernet Gigabits Per Second Government-Furnished Equipment Gigahertz (thousands of Mhz)

GNCMS DISN TMN/OSS Network Configuration Management System HEMP HVAC IA High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse Heating, Ventilation, & Air Conditioning Information Assurance 29

IAW IBGP IC ID IGP INMS Intserv IP IPSec ISO IT ITU-T IW/IO JDCS JDIICS MIB MTTR NE NEC Nm NMCN NMI NNI NOC

In Accordance With Internal Border Gateway Protocol Intelligence Community Identification Interior Gateway Protocol Integrated Network Management System Integrated Services; also Int-Serv Internet Protocol Internet Protocol Security International Organization for Standardization Information Technology International Telecommunication Union-Telecommunication Information Warfare, Information Operations Joint DISN Control System Joint Defense Information Infrastructure Control System Management Information Base Maintenance time to Repair Network Element National Electrical Code Nanometer Network Management and Control Network Network Management Interface Network to Network Interface Network Operations Center 30

NSAP O&M OCONUS OEO OIF OLA OMB ORL OSS OTDR PM PMD PMS POP PRM Ps QoS R RF RMS RNOSC ROADM SCIF SDN

Network Service Access Point Operations & Maintenance Outside the Continental United States Optical-Electrical-Optical Optical Internetworking Forum Optical Line Amplifier Office of Management and Budget Optical Return Loss Operational Support System Optical Time Domain Reflector Performance Management Polarization Mode Dispersion Performance Management System Point of Presence Performance Report Message Picosecond Quality of Service Required Radio Frequency Report Management System Regional Network Operations and Security Center Reconfigurable Optical Add/Drop Multiplexer Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility Service Delivery Node 31

SDP SNMP SOP SOW TBD TCP TL1 TLV TMI TMN TMS UDP UNI UPS VPN

Service Delivery Point Simple Network Management Protocol State of Polarization Statement Of Work To Be Determined Transmission Control Protocol Transaction Language 1 Type, Length, Value tuple Trouble Management Interface Telecommunications Management Network Trouble Management System User Datagram Protocol User Network Interface Uninterruptible Power Supply Virtual Private Network

32

DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY NETWORK SERVICES DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

30 January 2013

Defense Information Systems Agency DISN Network Services (NS) P.O. Box 549 Fort Meade, MD 20755-0549

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 2

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 1. Foreword Section 4.3.2 MIL-HDBK-232A, RED/BLACK Engineering Installation Guidelines 20 Mar 1987 replaced MIL-HDBK-217F. 2. Foreword Section 4.3.3 MIL-STD-1678-4, Fiber Optic Cabling Systems, 20 May 2010 replaced MIL-HDBK-282 3. Foreword Section 4.3.15 MIL-STD 100G, 9 June 1997 replaced MIL-STD 100G, 9 SEP 1976 4. Chapter 1 Section 1.1.1 added clarification: QA inspection shall be conducted to ensure 90% compliance but must ensure no hazerdous conditions exisit. QA may be accomplished by the lead FE or independent team as deemed appropriate by the installation vendor. 5. Chapter 1 Section 1.2.1 added clarification: A detailed Telecommunications Services Implementation Plan (TSIP), with cautionary instructions for the field engineers, will suffice if the level of detail is sufficient to accomplish the assigned tasks. 6. Chapter 1 Section 1.2.7 removed: The exposed ends of dead cables or wire remaining shall be insulated with two layers of electrical tape or a heat shrink cap. 7. Chapter 1 Table C1.3.1 added: Cesium tubes, PolyVinyl Chloride-PVC and cabling, Brominated Flame-retardants, printed circuit boards, cabling, and connectors 8. Chapter 2 Section 2.4.1 added clarification: All 2-post equipment racks 7'-0" and taller shall be top supported by attachment to the site infrastructure, if existing site conditions allow. 9. Chapter 2 Section 2.4.10 added clarification: Where ever possible, 2 & 4-post Racks, cabinets, etc. shall be bolted to the true floor using approved floor anchors, stanchions, etc. 10. Chapter 2 section 2.4.16 added clarification: All 2 & 4post racks and cabinets shall be individually grounded to the equipment ground plane or ground bus. Racks and cabinets shall never be "daisy chained" to each other. All exceptions to this policy shall be addressed through the Release and Deployment Lead on a case by case basis 11. Chapter 2 section 2.5.11 added clarification: Insulation or heat shrink tubing must be placed on exposed threaded rods used to support frames, racks, etc... that may come into contact with wires or cables to protect the wires or cables from damage. 12. Chapter 2 Section 2.6.31 added clarification: Red and black fiber can share the same distribution vehicle as DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
long as both red and black data is not contained within the same multifiber cable. However, in TEMPEST facilities, Fiber carrying secure (RED) communication is to be encased in a metallic conduit or ducting and separated from BLACK communication by Protective Distribution Systems IAW NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, RED/BLACK Installation Guidance. Red and black signal wires, optical fibers, power cables, processors and equipment shall be separated IAW NTISSAM 295, TEMPEST RED/BLACK installation Guidance, 12 Dec 1995, and amendments. Chapter 2 Section 2.7.39 deleted duplication of 2.7.36 Chapter 2 Section 2.7.41 renumbered as 2.7.40 and added clarification: Equipment cabinets are designed and configured, and their rack-mounted equipment is positioned to provide sufficient thermal cooling, natural air convection or forced air convection from internal fans to ensure the proper operation of the rack's electronic equipment in accordance with the specifications, installation and maintenance manuals of the electronic equipment. With the room's ambient temperature between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit, operate all the rack's electrical and electronic equipment at full capacity for at least four hours. Then request network operations telnet into the devices to ensure equipment temperature is within a safe operating range before departing site. Chapter 3 Section 3.2.12 added clarification to use fire stopping at sites following fire stopping practices: Membrane penetration for cables, cable trays, conduits, pipes, tubes, wires and similar items to accommodate electrical, mechanical and communication systems that pass through a membrane of a floor or wall or floor/ceiling assembly constructed as a fire barrier shall be protected by a fire stop system at sites where fire stopping practices are currently followed. Chapter 3 Section 3.3.1 added clarification plenum rules followed only in plenum airspaces: Insulation of power cables installed in the ceiling plenum or below the raised floor must meet the requirements of NFPA-70. Communication cables installed in ceiling spaces and under raised floors shall be plenum rated or installed in a metallic conduit if installed in a plenum air space. Chapter 4 Section 4.4.1 corrected cable specifications: The maximum distance for unbroken Category 5 and Category 6 cables carrying Ethernet digital signals is 100 meters, unless otherwise specified in the BESEP, TSIP or EIP. Chapter 4 Section 4.1.17 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

13. 14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
19. Chapter 4 Section 4.1.29 MDF clarification added: All cables are to enter intermediate and main distribution frames on the vertical side.

BASIC INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. This document outlines the general workmanship requirements for the installation of telecommunications and associated equipment by the Defense Information System Agency (DISA) or personnel to do installations on behalf of DISA. The intent of this document is to improve the quality of installation and workmanship practices, eliminating degradations to DISN telecommunications. It also prescribes procedures to maintain overall systems availability, ensure compatibility between electrical/electronic systems, and local ambient atmospheric and electromagnetic environments. Assuring human safety and welfare practices as they relate to workmanship and installation is also within the purview of this document. 2. Applicability. These are the minimum installation standards applicable to all installations of DISN electrical or electronic equipment, systems, and subsystems. The guidelines herein complement other specified technical standards and requirements that are necessary for the installation of the equipment, system or subsystem. Substandard installation practices can directly contribute to degraded equipment operations, electromagnetic interference (EMI) problems, Transient Electromagnetic Pulse Emanations Standard (TEMPEST) violations, poor power quality, grounding problems, and safety hazards at DISA DISN sites. 2.1 If conditions arise that, require deviation from the requirements described herein, a signed mutual agreement shall resolve differences between DISA NS6 and the installation team. 2.2 DISA reserves the right to revise this document for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards declared by various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of technology, or integration of new products. This document provides a list of known specifications and standards whose use by Department of Defense (DoD) program offices, buying activities, and contractors and is mandated by Public Law or Government regulation.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3. Authority. This document is in accordance with the authority contained in Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5105.19. 4. References. 4.1 The following specifications, standards, and handbooks form a part of this document to the extent specified herein. For this document, a specification or standard is defined as any document developed or adopted under the Defense Standardization Program as described in DoD 4120.24-M, "Defense Standardization Program Policies and Procedures," and includes non-Government standards, defense specifications and standards, federal specifications and standards, commercial item descriptions, data item descriptions, and international standardization agreements. 4.2 CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR)

4.2.1 29 CFR 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards(Fed/OSHA), 27 Jun 1974 4.3 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD)

4.3.1 DoD 5200.8-R, Physical Security, 7 May 2007 4.3.2 MIL-HDBK-232A, RED/BLACK Engineering Installation Guidelines, 20 Mar 1987 4.3.3 MIL-STD-1678-4, Fiber Optic Cabling Systems, 20 May 2010 4.3.4 MIL-HDBK-411B Power and the Environment for Sensitive DoD Electronic Equipment, 15 May 1990 4.3.5 MIL-HDBK-419A Vol I and II, Grounding Bonding, and Shielding for Electronic Equipment and Facilities, 19 Dec 1987 4.3.6 MIL-HDBK-420, Notice 1, Site Survey Handbook for Communications Facilities, 24 Oct 2000 4.3.7 MIL-HDBK-454B, General Guidelines for Electronic Equipment, 15 Apr 2007 4.3.8 MIL-HDBK-729, Corrosion and Corrosion Prevention Metals, 29 Nov 1983 4.3.9 MIL-HDBK-1004/4, Military Handbook Electrical Systems, 31 Jan 1990 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS Utilization

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 6

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

4.3.10 MIL-HDBK-1008C, Military Handbook Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction, 10 Jun 1997 4.3.11 MIL-HDBK-1012/13 Telecommunication Premises Planning, Design and Estimating, 31 May 1996 4.3.12 MIL-HDBK-1013/1, Design Guidelines for Physical Security of Fixed Land-Based Facilities, 31 Jun 1988 4.3.13 MIL-HDBK-2000, Notice 1, Military Handbook Soldering of Electrical and Electronic Assemblies, 6 Sep 1995 4.3.14 MIL-HDBK-2051, Military Handbook, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Guide, 22 May 1996 4.3.15 MIL-STD 100G, Standard Practice for Engineering Drawings, 9 June 1997 4.3.16 MIL-STD-108E, Definitions of and basic Requirements For Enclosures For Electric and Electronic Equipment, 19 SEP 1985 4.3.17 MIL-STD-130L, Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property, 10 Oct 2005 4.3.18 MIL-STD-188-124B, Notice 3 Grounding, Bonding and Shielding for Common Long Haul/Tactical Communication Systems Including Ground-Base Communication Electronic Facilities and Equipment, 18 Dec 2000 4.3.19 MIL-STD-188-154A, Subsytem, Equipment and Interface Standards For Common Long Haul and Tactical Telecommunications Control Facilities, 31 Dec 1997 4.3.20 MIL-STD-348A, Department of Defense Interface Standard, Radio Frequency Connector Interface, 20 Apr 1988 4.3.21 MIL-STD-681D, Notice 1, Military Standard Identification Coding and Application of Hookup and Lead Wire, 19 Jun 2000 4.3.22 MIL-STD-889B, Notice 3, Military Standard Dissimilar Metals, 17 May 1993 4.3.23 MIL-STD-1276G Department of Defense Interface Standard Leads for Electronic Component Parts, 14 Mar 2007 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 7

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.3.24 MIL-STD-1285D, Department of Defense Standard Practices, Marking of Electrical and Electronic Parts, 7 Sep 2004 4.3.25 MIL-STD-1568, Material and Processes for Corrosion Prevention and Control in Aerospace Weapons Systems, 18 Feb 1997 4.3.26 MIL-STD-2042 1, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, CABLES, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.27 MIL-STD-2042B-2, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, Equipment, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.28 MIL-STD-2042B-3, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, CABLE PENETRATIONS, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.29 MIL-STD-2042B-4, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, CABLEWAYS, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.30 MIL-STD-2042B-5, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, Connectors and Terminations, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.31 MIL-STD-2042B-6, Fiber Optic Cable Topology Installation Standard Methods, TESTS, 25 Jul 2002 4.3.32 TM 5-683, NAVFAC MO-116, AFJMAN 32-1083 Facilities Engineering Electrical Interior Facilities, 15 Dec 1995 4.3.33 TM-684, NAVFAC MO-200, AFJMAN 32-1082 Facilities Engineering Electrical Exterior Facilities, 29 Nov 1996 4.3.34 TM5-693, Uninterruptible Power Supply System Selection, Installation, and Maintenance for C4ISR Facility, 31 May 2002 4.3.35 UFC 3-520-01, Interior Electrical Systems, 10 Jun 2002 4.3.36 UFC 3-550-03FA, Electrical Power Supply and Distribution, 1 Mar 2005 4.3.37 UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O & M, 31 Mar 2008 4.3.38 UFC 3-580-01, Telecommunication Building Cabling Systems Planning and Design, 22 Jun 2007 4.3.39 UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 Sep 2006 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 8

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.3.40 CJCSI 6211.02C, Defense Information Systems Network (DISN): Policy and Responsibilities, 9 Jul 08 4.3.41 CJCSI 6130.01D CJCS Master Positioning, Navagation and Timing Plan (MPNTP), 13 APR 2007 4.4 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM AGENCY

4.4.1 DISAC 310-55-9, Base Level Support for the Defense Information Systems Network (DISN), 5 Nov 1999 4.4.2 DISAC 310-70-57, Methods and Procedures, Defense Information System Network (DISN) Quality Assurance (QA) Program, 20 May 2009 4.4.3 DISA Instruction 240-110-33, Physical Security, 1 Feb 2007 4.5 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

4.5.1 DOE-HDBK-1092-04, DOE Handbook Electrical Safety, Dec 2004 4.5.2 DOE-SPEC-3019-96, Valve-Regulated Type Lead-Acid Storage Batteries, Mar 1996 4.6 FEDERAL STANDARDS

4.6.1 FED-STD-368A, Quality Control System Requirements, 10 Dec 1979 4.7 NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

4.7.1 NSTISSAM TEMPEST 2-95, RED/BLACK Installation Guidance, 12 Dec 1995 4.7.2 NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95A, Amendment to Advisory Memorandum TEMPEST 2-95 RED/BLACK Installation Guidance, 3 Feb 2000 4.7.3 NSTISSI-7003, Protective Distribution Systems (PDS), 13 Dec 1996 4.8 Insulated Cable Engineers Association (ICEA)

4.8.1 ICEA S-83-596, Optical Fiber Premise Distribution Cable, 12 Sep 2001 4.8.2 ICEA S-87-640, Optical Fiber Outside Plant Cable, 1 Sep 2006 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS Communication

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 9

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

4.8.3 J-STD-607-A-2002, Commercial Building Grounding (Earthing) and Bonding Requirements for Telecommunications, 2002 4.8.4 ANSI/NECA-1-2006, Standard Practice of Good Workmanship in Electrical Contracting, 2006 4.8.5 ANSI-NECA/NEMA 105-2007, Standard for the Installing Metal Cable Tray Systems (ANSI), 2007 4.8.6 ANSI/NECA 111-2003, Standard for Installing Nonmetallic Raceways (RNC, ENT, LFNC) (ANSI), 2003 4.8.7 ANSI/NECA/BICSI 568-2006, Standard for Installing Building Telecommunications Cabling (ANSI), 2006 4.9 AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS (ASME)

4.9.1 ASME Y14.100-2004, Engineering Drawing Practices, 2004 4.9.2 ASME Y14.24-1999, Types and Applications of Drawings, 1999 4.9.3 ASME Y14.34M-1996, Associated Lists, 1996 4.9.4 ASME Y14.35M-1997, Revision of Engineering Drawings and Associated Documents, 1997 4.10 INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS Engineering

4.10.1 IEEE 100, Dictionary of Electrical and Electronics Terms, 1996 4.10.2 IEEE 450, Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Testing and Replacement of Large Lead Storage Batteries for Generating Stations and Substations, 2002 4.10.3 IEEE 484, Recommended Practice for Installation Design and Installation of Large Lead Storage Batteries for Generating Stations and Substations, 2002 4.10.4 IEEE 485, Recommended Practice for Sizing Large Lead Storage Batteries for Generating Stations and Substations, 1997

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 10

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.10.5 IEEE 1187, Recommended Practice for Installation Design and Installation of Valve-Regulated, Lead-Acid Storage Batteries for Stationary Applications IEEE-519, 2002 4.10.6 IEEE 1188, Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Testing, and Replacement of Valve Regulated Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applications, 1996 4.10.7 IEEE 1189, Guide for Selection of Valve Regulated LeadAcid (VRLA) Batteries for Stationary Applications, 1996 4.11 NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION (NFPA)

4.11.1 National Fire Protection Association, NFPA-1: Uniform Fire Code [UFC], 2012 4.11.2 NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2011 4.11.3 NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, 2012 4.11.4 NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for Electrical Equipment Maintenance, 2010 4.11.5 NFPA 75, Standard for the Protection of Information Technology Equipment, 2009 4.11.6 NFPA 76, Standard for the Fire Protection of Telecommunications Facilities, 2009 4.11.7 NFPA 77, Recommended Practices for Static Electricity, 2007 4.11.8 NFPA 90A, Standard for the Installation of Air Conditioning and Ventilation Systems, 2008 4.11.9 NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2009 4.11.10 NFPA 110, Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems, 2005 4.11.11 NFPA 111, Standard on Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and Standby Power Systems, 2010 4.11.12 NFPA 220, Standard on Types of Building Construction, 2007 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 11

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

4.11.13 NFPA 780, Lightning Protection, 2011 4.11.14 NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Codes, 2007 4.12 Telecommunications Industry Association/Electronic Industries Alliance (TIA/EIA) 4.12.1 TIA/EIA 455-50B, Light Launch Conditions for Long-length Graded Index Optical Fiber Spectral Attenuation Measurements, 1991 4.12.2 TIA/EIA 455-59A, Measurements of Fiber Point Discontinuity Using an Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR), 1991 4.12.3 TIA/EIA 455-61A, Measurement of Fiber or Cable's Length Using OTDR, 1991 4.12.4 TIA/EIA 526-7, Optical Power Loss Measurements of Installed Singlemode Fiber Cable Plant, 1998 4.12.5 TIA/EIA 526-14-A, Optical Power Loss Measurements of Installed Multimode Fiber Cable Plant, 1998 4.12.6 TIA-568-C.0-2009, Generic Telecommuncations Cabling for Customer Premises, Feb 2009 4.12.7 TIA-568-C.1-2009, Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standards ­ Part 1, General Requirements, Feb 2009 4.12.8 TIA-568-C.2-2010, Balanced Twisted-Pair Telecommunications Cabling and Components, Apr 2010 4.12.9 TIA-568-C.3-2008, Optical Fiber Cabling Components Standard, Jun 2008 4.12.10 TIA-606-A-2008, Administration Standard for the Commercial Telecommunications Infrastructure, 24 Nov 2008 4.12.11 TIA-569-B-2009, Commercial Building Standard for Telecommunications Pathways and Spaces, May 2009 4.12.12 TIA-758-A-2004, Customer-Owned Outside Plant Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard, 5 May 04 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 12

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.12.13 TIA-942-2010, Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for Data Centers, Mar 2010 4.13 Telcordia (Formerly Bellcore Standards)

4.13.1 Telcordia GR-63-CORE, NEBS Requirements: Physical Protection, 3 Mar 2006 4.13.2 Telcordia GR-295-CORE, Mesh and Isolated Bonding Networks: Definition and Application to Telephone Central Offices, 1 Nov 2004 4.13.3 Telcordia GR-499-CORE, Transport Systems Generic Requirements (TSGR): Common Requirements, Issue 4, 4.13.4 Nov 2009 4.13.5 Telcordia GR-1089-CORE, Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Safety ­ Generic Criteria for Network Telecommunications Equipment, Issue 5, Aug 2009 4.13.6 Telcordia GR-1275-CORE, Central Office/Network Environment Installation/Removal Generic Requirements, Issue 8, Dec 2011 4.13.7 Telcordia GR-1502-CORE, Central Office/Network Environment Detail Engineering Generic Requirements, Issue 5, Dec 2006 4.13.8 Telcordia GR-2930-CORE, Network Equipment Building System (NEBS): Raised Floor Generic Requirements for Network and Data Centers, Issue 1, Nov 1996 4.13.9 Telcordia GR-2981-CORE, Quality Program Analysis (QPA) for Telecommunications Engineering or Installations Service Providers, Issue 2, Oct 2005 4.13.10 Telcordia GR-3028, Thermal Management in Telecommunications Central Offices: Thermal, Issue 1, Dec 2001 4.13.11 Telcordia GR-3160 NEBS Requirements for Telecommunications Data Center Equipment and Spaces, Issue 1, Nov 2008

4.14

Other References DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 13

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.14.1 NEMA VE 2-2006, Cable Tray Installation Guidelines, 31 Oct 2006 4.14.2 NEMA VE 1-2009, Metal Cable Tray Systems, 8 Oct 2009 4.14.3 NEMA 250-2008, Enclosures for Electrical Equipment (1000 V Maximum), 11 Mar 2009 4.14.4 American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 90431, Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments, 2nd Edition, 2009 4.14.5 ASHRAE 90429, Structural and Vibration Guidelines for Datacom Equipment Centers, 2007 4.14.6 All Applicable Equipment Installation Manuals or equivalent 4.14.7 DISA Cabeling Reference website:
http://www.disaconus.disa.mil/DISNEngineering/DISNEngineering.html

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 14

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS BASIC INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS 1. 2. 3. 4. C1. C1.1 C1.2 C1.3 C2. C2.1 C2.2 C2.3 C2.4 C2.5 C2.6 C2.7 C2.8 C2.9 C3. C3.1 C3.2 C3.3 C4. C4.1 C4.2 C4.3 C4.4 C4.5 Purpose Applicability Authority References CHAPTER 1. WORKING CONDITIONS

General Requirements Cable Mining Hazardous Materials/Waste CHAPTER 2. IRONWORK

General Requirements Cable Ladder Racks Conduits 2-Post Equipment Racks and 4-Post Equipment Cabinets Auxiliary Framing Cable Racks and Trays Frames, Bays and Cabinets Slotted Channel Conduit, Raceway, or Duct CHAPTER 3. FIRESTOPPING

General Requirements Firestops Plenum Cable CHAPTER 4. SIGNAL CABLING AND WIRE

General Requirements Multiconductor Cable Terminations Light Guide (Fiber Optic) Cabling Optical Loss Testing Nylon Cable Ties (Tie-Wraps), Wax Lacing, and Velcro Straps

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 15

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5. C5.1 C5.2 C5.3 C5.4 C5.5 C5.6 C5.7 C5.8 C5.9 C5.10 CHAPTER 5. CONNECTORS

General Requirements Soldering Connections Coaxial Connections Sheild Connections Quick Connections Wire Wrapping RJ-45 Connections BNC Connections D SUB plugs, contacts connectors and housings (db-xx) Compression Connections General -(#10 AWG 5.3mm2 and Smaller) C5.11 Solderless Wrapped Connections C5.12 Optical Fiber Connectors C6. C6.1 C6.2 C6.3 C6.4 C6.5 C6.6 C6.7 C6.8 C6.9 C6.10 C6.11 C6.12 C6.13 C6.14 C6.15 C6.16 C6.17 C6.18 C6.19 C6.20 CHAPTER 6. Equipment Designations, Labeling and Drawings

General Requirements Character Colors Equipment and Frame Labeling Requirements Rack and Cabinet Labeling Requirements Fiber Optic Cable Labeling Requiremen DS-X-Cat-X Labeling AC Power (110VAC equipment power strip in rack/cabinet, etc... to receptacle to AC breaker panel) Equipment Rack/Cabinet with AC power DC Power Cable Labeling Requirements DC Power Distribution Bay (DC Rectifier) to Fuse Alarm Panel (FAP) DC Rectifier and Fuse Alarm Panel (FAP) information cards/covers labeling Relay Rack/Cabinet Labeling Timing Labeling Marked Drawing Requirements (REDLINES) Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Additions Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Removals Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Changes Floor Plan Drawing Cable, Cable Rack & Auxiliary Frame Plan Drawing Relay Rack Front Equipment Drawin

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 16

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7. C7.1 C7.2 C7.3 C7.4 C7.5 C8. C8.1 C8.2 C8.3 C8.4 C8.5 C8.6 C8.7 C8.8 C9. CHAPTER 7. AC AND DC POWER

General Requirements DC Power Connectors and Connections Bus Bars Batteries and UPS Fuses and Circuit Breakers CHAPTER 8. GROUNDING REQUIREMENTS

General Requirements Earth Electrode System Lightning Protection System Fault Protection System Signal Ground Reference Routing, Supporting and Securing Grounding Conductors Termination of Ground Conductor Grounding Conductor Identification CHAPTER 9. GROUNDING WAVEGUIDE, RIDGE COAX, SEMI-RIDGE & COAX

C9.1

General Requirements DOCUMENTATION

C10. CHAPTER 10.

C10.1 General Requirements AA. AB. AC. AD. Appendix A. DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST Appendix B. DISN SITE SURVEY CHECKLIST Appendix C. DISN INSTALLATION QUICK REFERENCE CHECKLIST Appendix D. DISN IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 17

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIGURES C2.7.1 C2.7.2 C2.7.3 C2.7.4 C2.7.5 C4.1.1 C5.7.1 C5.7.2 C5.7.3 C5.9.1 C5.9.2 C5.9.3 C5.9.4 C5.9.5 C5.9.6 C5.9.7 C5.9.8 C5.9.9 C5.9.10 C6.4.1 C6.4.2 C6.5.8.1 C6.5.8.2 C6.5.8.3 C6.6.1 C6.6.2 C6.7.1 C6.7.2 C6.10.1 C6.11.1 C8.3.1 C8.4.1 Grounding Bus Bar Terminal Order of Bolt for Grounding Strap to Bus Bar Order of Bolt Connection for Grounding Cable To Bus Bar Bonding to a Flexible Cable or Conduit Bonding to a Ridge Conduit or Pipe Wireway Use in Shielding Power Line Radiated Emissions Left ­ CAT-5, Right ­ CAT-6 CAT-6 cable with inner sheath Proper sheath inside RJ45 connector Sheath Removed Wires Separated Wires Stripped Connector pins properly crimped Wires inserted into db connector Connector Pins Properly Seated Wires Managed in Connector Completed in Cover Male Connector Female Connector FDP Labeling Example Equipment in Shelf FDP label facing fiber connections when door is closed FDP CCSD label facing out when door is closed Fiber Optic Labeling Examples DS3/CAT-X Labeling Examples Correctly labeled Sycamore SN9K DS3 cables AC Power Strip to AC Breaker Panel Equipment to AC Power Strip via an AC Receptacle Fuse Alarm Panel Labeling Examples FAP Information Card Transmission Line at Entry Plate Voltage of a NEMA-15 Outlet

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 18

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLES C1.3.1 C2.6.52 C2.7.1 C2.7.2 C2.7.3 C4.1.1 C4.4.1 C5.10.1 C7.1.1 C7.1.2 C7.3.1 C8.5.1 C8.6.1 C10.1.1 Potentially Hazardous Materials Cable Rack Clearance Maximum Length of Ground Cables Minimum Torque Requirements for Bolted Bonds Vertical Alignment of Framework Separation Between Twisted-pair and Shielded Power Cables Fiber Optic Cable Attenuation Coefficient Terminal Color Code Versus Wire Gauge Vertical Alignment of Power Racks and Bays Separation between Twisted­Pair and Shielded Power Cables Maximum Length of Equipment Chassis Ground Cable Maximum Length of Ground Cable and Bus Bar Recommended Ground Cable Size per Application Color Code for Blue Prints and Engineering Drawings

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 19

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C1 WORKING CONDITIONS, CABLE MINING AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL/WASTE C1.1 General Requirements

C1.1.1 The Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) facility in which the installation is to occur, shall limit all communication concerning the implementation to DISA NS6. The implementations vendor shall be responsible for establishing a quality assurance (QA) process. The duties of the implementation vendor's QA inspector is to periodically inspect and evaluate the quality of the ongoing installation and enforce the implementation of the standards of this document. Sufficeint Recommendations for a successful QA/QC program may be found in paragraphs C4.3.20 ­ C4.3.23. QC inspection shall be conducted, at time of commissioning, to ensure 90% compliance but must ensure no hazerdous conditions exisit. QC duties may be performed by the lead FE or independent team as deemed appropriate by the implementation program manager. C1.1.2 All equipment is to be protected against any material falling onto or entering into the interior of the equipment during the installation. C1.1.3 The cutting, drilling, or filing of metallic material in rooms housing operational DOD communication/computer electrical or electronic equipment is prohibited unless absolutely Mission Essential and other equipment is placed in HAZCON. C1.1.4 Close all cable penetrations opened for the installation and/or removal of cabling temporarily at the end of each day during continuing work operations. C1.1.5 Opened cable penetrations require adequate protection for personnel and equipment where there is any danger of material falling to the floor below. C1.1.6 The Installation Teams are to maintain a clean environment. At the end of each shift, they are to clean the work area, clear walkways of debris or installation materials, and remove any trash from the facilities. C1.1.7 At the end of their shifts, the installers are to store their tools neatly in a secure area. Installers' tools are their responsibility to maintain and track. DISA or any other government agency is not responsible for tools or materials that are lost or stolen. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 20

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C1.1.8 The Installation Team is to protect existing equipment and cable from damage during all work activities. C1.1.9 The tool used to crimp lugs is to have a ratchet mechanism that requires a full crimp before the tool can be removed from the connector. Only the correct size and type crimp die is to be used. C1.1.10 Wire wraps shall be made using the proper tool sized to the wire gauge. C1.1.11 A hoist is to be used to lift battery cells, equipment chassis or modules into place when total weight exceeds the "two-man carry" requirement. C1.1.12 When working under a raised floor, the area where floor tiles have been removed is to be cordoned off to prohibit the movement of all personnel not assigned to the installation team. Stringers supporting floor tiles are not to be removed at any time without prior approval from an O&M Site Representative. C1.1.13 After the installation or de-installation is completed, the site is to be cleaned and swept, all old cables, boxes and miscellaneous scrap removed, tie-wrap scraps removed from floor, and tools or scrap removed from the overhead auxiliary framing or cable rack. 1.2 CABLE MINING

C1.2.1 A detailed Method of Procedure (MOP) shall be prepared and approved before starting a cable removing or mining operation. A detailed Telecommunications Services Implementation Plan (TSIP), with cautionary instructions for the field engineers, will suffice if the level of detail is sufficient to accomplish the assigned tasks. C1.2.2 The leads associated with de-powered/defused AC circuits shall be removed from their assigned terminals at both ends and the wire mined or their wire ends insulated using wire nuts, electrical tape, or an approved boot. C1.2.3 Equipment designations and capacity stamping, associated with removed AC circuits, shall be removed. C1.2.4 Circuit identification cards inside of AC service cabinets shall be updated to reflect circuits removed or added. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 21

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C1.2.5 Raceway(s) remaining in the removal area shall be run and supported as specified by the NEC and in the job documentation, be securely fastened, and all unterminated ends closed. C1.2.6 Raceway and raceway supports associated with removed equipment shall be removed from its served point (far end) back to the distribution point, unless otherwise specified in the job documentation. C1.2.7 Open but unused knockouts in AC service cabinets, raceway junction boxes, etc., remaining in the removal area shall be closed. C1.2.8 Raceway junction boxes and fittings remaining in the removal area shall be equipped with covers. C1.2.9 Any AC wire nut connections remaining in the removal area shall be reconnected in an enclosed location, such as a raceway junction box. C1.2.10 When loosening cable or wire for removal (cutting securing stitches or removing cable clips), the Installation Team shall exercise caution and utilize the appropriate tools to ensure that adjacent cables, which may be live, are not damaged or cut. C1.2.11 The Installation Team shall remove wires/cables as far back as the job documentation specifies. C1.2.12 All applicable service interruption and/or degradation prevention and equipment protection precautions shall be adhered to during cable removal and mining operations. C1.2.13 All applicable safety precautions shall be adhered to during cable removal and mining operations. C1.2.14 Sharp objects shall not be used to separate cable bundles. C1.2.15 Wedges, lifting, or separating tools shall be nonmetallic and non-conductive. C1.2.16 When cable is being removed from cable rack, either horizontal or vertical, the Installation Team shall verify that DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 22

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
the cable rack is fastened to the building surface or a supporting structure before the stitching is removed. C1.2.17 During the mining operation, if it is observed that the ironwork, auxiliary framing or cable rack is becoming distorted, coming loose from its connecting hardware or displays unanticipated movement, the Installation Team shall immediately stop the work activity and notify the DISN Facility representative. C1.2.18 The Installation Team shall be equipped with adequate on site supplies to restore service interruptions caused by cable mining operations. C1.2.19 Under no circumstances shall a loop of cable or wire be inserted through the protective ring of a cable cutting tool to be cut. C1.2.20 All cables to be cut during a cable removal or mining operation shall have their ends hanging off the cable rack and all cuts shall be made a minimum of 18 inches below or to the side of the cable rack. C1.2.21 If there is a possibility of the cut portion of a cable striking working equipment when it is cut, the cable cutting activity shall be performed on the floor, or the appropriate equipment protection shall be installed to ensure that the cut cable ends do not strike working equipment. C1.2.22 To avoid the possibility of cutting loops of live cables hanging off cable racks, the potentially live cables shall be temporarily separated away from the cables to be cut. When possible, the cables shall be separated on the cable rack. If, due to the amount of cable on the cable rack, the cables cannot be separated on the cable rack, then the cables shall be temporarily supported with trunk straps (or equivalent) to the side of the cable rack away from the cable cutting activity. C1.2.23 If the job documentation or engineering specification does not specify the extent to which cables are to be removed from equipment frames or bays that are being removed, the Installation Team shall detail in the MOP the point on the horizontal cable rack where the cable will be cut. C1.2.24 If the job documentation does not specify the extent to which cables are to be removed or mined from vertical cable DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 23

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
racks, the Installation Team shall detail in the MOP where the cable will be cut, the cable hole(s) and the floor(s) where the cable removal or mining activity is being performed. C1.2.25 When removing cable on vertical runs of more than one floor, the stitching securing the cable shall not be removed for more than one floor at a time. C1.2.26 On vertical cable runs, cable(s) shall be cut from the floor above a cable hole allowing the free end to be identified before passing it through to the floor below. C1.2.27 All unused lengths of cord and cable clips associated with removed cables and remaining in the removal or mining area shall be removed from the cable racks. C1.2.28 The Installation Team shall remove, relocate, or add all end guards, end shields, framework details, units/equipment, equipment frames, equipment bays, cable and wire terminations, terminal blocks, etc., as specified in the job documentation. C1.2.29 All far end connections associated with removed units or equipment frames shall be removed. C1.3 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL/WASTE

C1.3.1 The DISN Facility shall adhere to the guidelines and procedures in their respective Hazardous Material/Waste Management documentation, and comply with federal, state, local, and provincial regulations. C1.3.2 The DISN Facility shall be responsible for identification and removal of hazardous waste prior to the equipment being removed and scrapped. C1.3.3 All hazardous waste shall be packaged per federal, state, local, and provincial regulations. C1.3.4 The DISN Facility shall be responsible for removal and transportation of the packaged hazardous waste from the site. C1.3.5 The Installation Team must contact the DISN Facility representative if the Installation Team becomes aware or suspects that hazardous material exists in the equipment being scrapped. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 24

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C1.3.6 If the Installation Team uncovers hazardous material during the cable mining job (e.g., lead cable, arsenic cable, PCBs etc.) the work in that area shall be stopped immediately. The DISN Facility representative shall be contacted for disposition, and no work in that area shall continue until the DISN Facility has a resolution for the hazardous material identified

Potentially Hazardous Materials Potentially Hazardous Material Lead Arsenic Acids Cadmium Mercury Radium-Bromide Krypton Polychlorinated Biphenyls Solvents and Cleaners Asbestos Cesium tubes PolyVinyl Chloride-PVC and cabling Brominated Flame-retardantsprinted circuit boards, cabling and connectors Central Office Source Batteries, Lead Sheathed Cable Vintage Cloth-Jacketed Cable Batteries Batteries Switches, Relays, Tubes Vacuum Tubes Vacuum Tubes Capacitors, Fluorescent Light, Ballast, Transformers Storage Cabinets Power Plants, Exhaust Stacks, Diesels, Heating and Plumbing Duct Work, Sprayed-on Fireproofing Line Card Resistors, Floor Tiles, and Building Materials

Asbestos can be present in a wide variety of building materials including, but not limited to, plaster, wall board, construction adhesives, surfacing materials, ceiling and floor tile, shingles, etc. Disturbance of such materials may be subject to federal, state, local, and provincial regulations. Table C1.3.1

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 25

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 26

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2. C2.1 CHAPTER 2. IRONWORK, RACK and CABINET INSTALLATION

General Requirements

C2.1.1 This section covers the general requirements for the location, assembly and erection of cable and relay racks. C2.1.2 The Implementation Team shall ensure, as part of the evaluation of the installation, that all work has been done in accordance with implementation documentation or approved changes. C2.1.3 The location of auxiliary framing, cable racks, frames, relay racks and other equipment shall conform to the site drawings and specifications for each installation. Approved deviations shall be marked on the drawings. C2.1.4 All ironwork installation described in this section shall conform to the seismic requirements for zone 4,except where otherwise noted. C2.1.5 All fastening details, piece parts and other apparatus used in the assembly and installation of auxiliary framing, ladder racking, racks and cabinets shall be in accordance with manufacturer's specifications. C2.1.6 Cut ends of auxiliary framing, cable racks, bolts, etc., shall have sharp or jagged edges removed. Cut ends and damaged painted surfaces shall be repainted. C2.1.7 Auxiliary framing shall be uniform in length, at the correct height and properly located. C2.1.8 Splices shall be the through bolt type. C2.1.9 The end of the auxiliary framing should extend at least 3 inches beyond the last point of support. C2.1.10 All exposed ends of auxiliary framing shall be equipped with a rubber finishing caps. C2.1.11 When short sections of auxiliary framing are used below the regular framing, rubber finishing caps shall be installed on the exposed ends.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 27

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.1.12 There shall be a minimum 5-inch clearance between the ends of auxiliary framing and any building surface or apparatus (e.g., HVAC ducting). Any building surface or apparatus shall be installed with a minimum 5-inch clearance to the auxiliary framing. C2.1.13 Auxiliary framing shall be supported at approximately five feet intervals, not to exceed six feet and shall not extend more than 30 inches beyond the last support. The support shall be: From the ceiling using 5/8 inch threaded rods or from the floor using 2 inch pipe stanchions or wall supports using batten boards or Directly supported by rack/cabinet or other approved methods. C2.1.14 Pipe stanchion floor flange shall be fastened to the floor with a minimum of two 1/4-20 flat head machine screws and associated floor anchors. C2.1.15 Auxiliary framing should be installed in 6-foot sections unless otherwise specified. C2.1.16 Unsupported ends of auxiliary framing, supporting cable rack, ladder track, conduit, etc., shall not extend past the last point of support more than 2 feet 6 inches. C2.1.17 When a square tube floor stanchion system is used, it shall be installed in accordance with instructions given in the detailed specifications. C2.1.18 Stiffening clips shall be installed on no more than 2foot centers between auxiliary framing supports. C2.1.19 Stiffening clips may be omitted at locations where an earthquake brace, cable rack, or other clipped fastening of 1/2 inch or larger is located. C2.1.20 Cable racks supported directly by auxiliary framing shall be attached with J-bolts or C-Clip kits at each support. C2.1.21 Auxiliary framing supported conduit shall not be extended to wall-mounted switches, lights, outlets, etc. Approved flexible conduit or cable shall be utilized for this application.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 28

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.2 Cable Ladder Racks

C2.2.1 Where cable ladder racks are directly attached to auxiliary framing, both stringers shall be bolted to the framing at each end of a run. At intermediate points, only one J-bolt is required at each auxiliary framing intersection. The J-bolts shall be staggered so that adjacent fastenings along the rack can be made on opposite sides of the rack. When short pairs of auxiliary framing are used to support the cable ladder rack extending beyond regular framing, or are used for the support of a frame, two J-bolts or spanner clips shall be used per auxiliary frame support. C2.2.2 Cable ladder racks shall be located as specified on job drawings. C2.2.3 Space between ends of cable ladder rack stringer shall not exceed 5/8 inch at splices. C2.2.4 Only one cable ladder rack splice is permitted between any pair of supports and spliced sections are not permitted to extend beyond the last support. C2.2.5 Cable ladder rack shall be supported at approximately 5 feet intervals, not to exceed 6 feet and shall not extend more than 30 inches beyond the last support. C2.2.6 There shall be a minimum 5-inch clearance between the ends of the cable rack and any building obstruction. C2.2.7 Where required, cable ladder rack pans shall be installed using the following guidelines: Pan shall be installed on all upper tier ladder rack systems to prevent cable sag. All junctions shall be overlapped a minimum of 3 inches. The bottom section of "pan" shall not extend more than three inches past the common cross member. Pan shall not extend past the end of the cable rack stringer or closing detail. Cable retaining horns on "panned" cable rack shall be installed on both sides of the cable rack on 18-24 inch centers. An overlapping arrangement of pans should be utilized to avoid cutting of pans. C2.2.8 Distance between cable ladder rack cross members shall not exceed 9 inches. Additional support shall be provided as necessary to keep the cable from sagging.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 29

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.2.9 The ends of cable ladder rack sections shall be protected with rubber finishing caps or end closing bar. C2.2.10 Cable ladder racks shall not be supported by their cross members. C2.2.11 Vertical racks on walls or columns shall be supported at the floor and shall have intermediate support with a maximum spacing not to exceed 5 feet. C2.2.12 For horizontal cable runs, the cable ladder rack shall be placed with the cross members upward. A cable rack with solid bar-type stringers, smaller than 25 inches in width, may be inverted to gain necessary cabling heights due to fixed obstructions. Cable ladder racks with reinforced straps shall not be inverted. C2.2.13 All cable ladder sections shall be bonded together with a #6 stranded cable at every splice point. Only one bonding cable shall be required per splice section pair. C2.2.14 Implementation Team shall follow proper bonding procedures defined in the Grounding and Bonding section of this document. C2.3 Conduits

C2.3.1 Conduit shall be supported with material designed for the support of conduit, such as U-bolts, conduit clamps, conduit straps, etc. Hose clamps, cord, tie wraps and other similar material shall not be used to support conduit. C2.3.2 Rigid conduit and Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) shall be secured on a wall or ceiling every 10 feet and shall be supported within 3 feet of each outlet box, junction box, or cabinet. An outlet junction box or cabinet that is secured is considered a support. The use of EMT is permitted in applications where the EMT shall not be subject to physical damage. C2.3.3 Liquidtight flexible metal conduit shall be secured and fastened to a support within 12 inches on each side of each outlet box, junction box, cabinet or fitting. No support is required when Liquidtight flexible metal conduit is installed inside the base angle of frameworks. Three feet of unsupported Liquidtight flexible metal conduit from a fitting is acceptable DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 30

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
when flexibility of the equipment is necessary or when the Liquidtight flexible metal conduit serves lighting fixtures. Cord/tie wrap may be used to hold Liquidtight metal conduit in place within a frame (not for support). C2.3.4 Liquidtight flexible metal conduit shall not be used as a main fixed raceway for power conductors, except where flexibility of the raceway is required. C2.3.5 The total combined length of all Liquidtight flexible metal conduits from source to load shall be limited to 6 feet. C2.3.6 Conduit serving a junction box that does not contain a device and does not support fixtures shall be supported within 36 inches of the box, on two or more sides. If a junction box contains a device, conduit shall be supported within 18 inches of the box. C2.3.7 Conduits secured to other than a wall or ceiling shall be securely fastened at intervals of approximately 5 feet, not to exceed 6 feet maximum. Conduit shall not extend more than 30 inches beyond the last support. C2.3.8 Unused knockouts in boxes and cabinets and all unterminated conduit ends shall be closed. C2.3.9 Conduit shall be placed so as not to block future cabling, ladders and equipment. C2.3.10 Proper clearance from pipes, duct work or heat generating equipment shall be maintained to eliminate possible damage to cable. C2.3.11 Conduit shall be supported with material designed for support of conduit, such as conduit clamps, conduit straps, etc. Nylon cable ties, lacing cord or similar material shall not be used. C2.3.12 Insulated couplings shall not be installed in AC conduit or raceways. C2.3.13 Conduit fittings shall be tight.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 31

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.4 2-Post Equipment Racks and 4-Post Equipment Cabinets

C2.4.1 All 2-post equipment racks 7'-0" and taller shall be top supported by attachment to the site infrastructure, if existing site conditions allow. If a series of 2-post equipment racks (Equipment Bay Group) are tied together, infrastructure supports are required at each end of the group and one at the middle of the group. EBG's that exceed 20 feet must have infrastructure support every 8-10 feet. An equipment bay group or group of bays is defined as any number of individual equipment racks that are rigidly bolted or otherwise through-bolted together to form a structurally continuous unit of racks. C2.4.2 All 2-post racks shall be secured to the installation site "true floor" with minimum size 5/8" hardware at each corner, unless mounting a rack/cabinet to true floor through a raised floor using raised floor stanchions. In these cases 1/2" hardware shall be used to anchor stanchions to true floor and 5/8" hardware to secure racks/cabinets to stanchions. True floor is not the raised floor installed at many locations, but the floor that the raised floor is mounted to. C2.4.3 All 2 & 4-post bays 7'-0" or taller installed as an individual unit, not junctioned to any adjacent frames, shall have at least two points of support to the overhead superstructure. C2.4.4 All 2 & 4-post units 7-0" or taller shall be secured with 4 floor anchors. Top support should be utilized, unless specified in the detail specification. C2.4.5 All 2 & 4-post uprights of adjacent racks and cabinets shall be joined together per manufacturer's specifications and at the top and bottom to form a continuous lineup. C2.4.6 All 2 & 4-post racks and cabinets to be installed shall be measured from reference points as identified on the floor plan. C2.4.7 All 2 & 4-post Bays and cabinets shall be plumb and aligned to adjacent bays and cabinets to within ź inch. C2.4.8 All 2 & 4-post Bays and cabinets shall be level within 1/16 inch per foot. If shims are required, there shall be no more than a 1-inch shim stack. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 32

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.4.9 If an embedded obstruction (e.g., reinforcing bar) is encountered during floor drilling, drill another hole at an alternate location. If relocating the hole is not possible, contact the PMO and Site POC. C2.4.10 Where ever possible, 2 & 4-post Racks, cabinets, etc. shall be bolted to the true floor using approved floor anchors, stanchions, etc. C2.4.11 End guards and guardrail closings are required on all bay uprights at each end of the lineup. C2.4.12 End panels shall be placed on exposed cabinet uprights not located adjacent to another cabinet. C2.4.13 Hinged doors or covers on cabinets shall not bind with adjacent covers or doors to such an extent that any cover or door cannot be readily opened without causing the adjacent cover or door to move. In addition, hinged doors shall not come in contact with any working equipment. C2.4.14 All 2 & 4-post Equipment racks or cabinets shall never be left unsupported. When equipment frames or cabinets are temporarily placed at a location, before being permanently secured, they shall be strapped to at least two locations (i.e. auxiliary framing, building column). C2.4.15 The following rack /cabinet clearances shall be maintained. ˇ ˇ ˇ Front ­ minimum 36" Rear ­ minimum 36" Sides/ends ­ minimum 24"

C2.4.16 All 2 & 4-post racks and cabinets shall be individually grounded to the equipment ground plane or ground bus. Racks and cabinets shall never be "daisy chained" to each other. All exceptions to this policy shall be addressed through the Release and Deployment Lead on a case by case basis. C2.4.17 Threaded Rods, bolts, nuts and screws used to secure parts or units shall be tight. The appropriate size bolt, rod, washer, nut, etc shall be used in all cases.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 33

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.4.18 Chrome rack screws shall not be used under any circumstance to mount/secure equipment. C2.4.19 The short chrome screws that come with ADC fiber management are acceptable to secure fiber management to equipment 2-post racks. C2.4.20 Stainless Steel bolts, nuts and washers shall be the preferred hardware to use when making DC power connections in rectifiers or in grounding scenarios where this type of hardware is required. C2.4.21 Implementation team shall cut the exposed end of a bolt or rod that extends into the equipment or wiring area, or presents a personnel hazard. ALL exposed ends shall be from nut flush to a maximum of three threads over flush. C2.4.22 Threaded rods shall be screwed into floor anchors or ceiling inserts at least a full seven turns. C2.4.23 Heat shrink or PVC type protectors shall be installed on all threaded rod that supports a second tier. C2.4.24 Bolts, screws or rods shall not be more than one thread under flush. C2.4.25 Both ends of bolts, screws or threaded rods free of sharp edges and burrs. shall be

C2.4.26 Self-locking nuts that have been loosened or removed shall not be reused. C2.4.27 Slotted Channel shall be at correct height, properly located and free of loose details. C2.4.28 Where Slotted Channel extends more than three inches beyond a clip or support, the Slotted Channel shall be equipped with finishing detail caps. C2.4.29 When additional Slotted Channel is placed below the regular framing, the ends shall be equipped with finishing detail caps. C2.4.30 There shall be a minimum 5-inch clearance between the ends of the unit-strut and any building obstruction. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 34

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.4.31 Slotted Channel sections shall have at least 2 supports unless otherwise specified. The supports shall be at intervals not to exceed 6 feet and shall not extend more than 30 inches beyond the last support. C2.5 Auxiliary Framing

C2.5.1 The location of auxiliary framing and other equipment is to conform with the particular floor plan and specifications for the installation as referred to in the installation drawings and Base Electronic System Engineering Plan (BESEP), Engineering Installation Plan or Telecommunication System Installation Plan (TSIP). C2.5.2 All auxiliary framing cut will have all sharp edges filed off and/or painted at the time of installation. The paint is to be of the color and type (enamel, oil base etc.) consistent with the existing or adjacent surfaces. C2.5.3 All materials (bolts, screws, threaded rods, framework, etc.) shall be secure and have no sharp edges or burrs. C2.5.4 The threads of bolts, cap screws, machine screws, threaded rods and similar threaded parts are to extend at least two threads beyond the final thread of the fastening device, i.e. nut or threaded hole, except in the case of cap-nuts and self-locking nuts. C2.5.5 The threaded part is to protrude no more than an amount equal to the diameter of the bolt, screw or rod. C2.5.6 Threaded rods shall be screwed into floor or ceiling inserts at least seven full turns. C2.5.7 All masonry or other types of anchor hardware shall be of the rating, size, material and type prescribed in the installation plan. C2.5.8 Holes that were drilled into concrete floors, walls, or ceilings and not used shall be filled with a masonry patch. C2.5.9 Auxiliary framing bars used for support purposes shall be uniform, level, properly positioned, and properly supported. C2.5.10 All fastening details, piece parts, and other apparatus used in the assembly of auxiliary framing shall be assembled in DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 35

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications as specified in the installation plan. C2.5.11 Insulation or heat shrink tubing must be placed on exposed threaded rods used to support frames, racks, etc. that may come into contact with wires or cables to protect the wires or cables from damage. C2.5.12 The ends of all auxiliary framing must be finished with the appropriate end caps. C2.5.13 Unless otherwise specified by the installation plan, auxiliary framing is to be supported in intervals of approximately 5 feet (152 cm) to a maximum of 6 feet (183 cm) on center. Each length of auxiliary framing is to have at least two (2) support points. C2.5.14 Auxiliary framing must not block or obstruct cable paths and openings, light fixtures, conduits or other similar equipment units. C2.5.15 Auxiliary framing is not to extend more than 30 inches (76 cm) past the last support. C2.5.16 Auxiliary framing splices shall be staggered whenever possible. C2.5.17 When splicing auxiliary framing, sections shall be a minimum of 36 inches (91 cm) in length. C2.5.18 When an auxiliary framing member is cut, it is to be cut squarely. The cuts must be positioned in such a way to allow for future expansion placement of a splice. C2.6 Cable Racks and Trays

The locations of cable racks and other equipment are to conform to the floor plan and specifications for the installation as referred to in the installation plan. Cable raceways shall meet or exceed the criteria listed in the installation plan or the minimum recommended specifications set forth below. C2.6.1 Raceways shall comply with all applicable Articles in the current National Electrical Code (NEC), NFPA-70. C2.6.2 Fill for all raceways shall not exceed manufacturers' maximum recommended allowance. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 36

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C2.6.3 A minimum of two inches of separation shall be maintained between metallic signal and control cables, and power cables regardless of whether they are parallel or perpendicular to each other. The preferred method is to fully enclose the electrical power cable in a conduit or ducting fabricated from a metal that shall provide sufficient electrical and magnetic shielding at frequencies below a kilohertz, such as galvanized steel. For low voltage signal cables, a minimum of 5-inches must be maintained from any fluorescent lighting fixtures and any power lines over 2-KVA. A distance of 24-inches must be maintained from any power lines over 5-KVA. Metallic signal cables shall be routed away from all possible sources of EMI; therefore, large motors, generators, induction heaters, arc­welders, radio, microwave or radar sources. Refer to MIL-HDBK-420, Volume 1, Sections 8.6 and 8.8, and Volume 2 Section 1.8. C2.6.4 In the effort of shielding electrical and magnetic fields from emanating from power lines, only ferrous metallic conduits, raceways, or ducts shall be used as raceways for the distribution of AC or DC power lines in DISN facilities. C2.6.5 All unused knockouts of wire-ways, electrical boxes and cabinets shall be closed or covered to prevent the entry of foreign objects into their interior. C2.6.6 Wire closets or distribution frames must be located away from sources of electromagnetic interference (EMI) such as transformers, motors, x-rays, induction heaters, arc welders, radio, and radar. Radiated emissions may not exceed 3 volts/meter across the frequency spectrum. C2.6.7 Wire closets and distribution frames may not be in an area susceptible to flooding. located

C2.6.8 Atmospheric conditions at the location of the wire closets or distribution frame shall always be maintained at 64° to 75°F (17° to 24°C), 30% to 55% humidity, positive pressure. C2.6.9 Lighting at wire closets of distribution frames should be at least a 50-foot candle measured at 36 inches above floor level. C2.6.10 In multiple floor facilities, wire closets shall be stacked vertically above each other with a minimum of three 4inch sleeves (a stub of conduit through the floor). An DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 37

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
equivalent 4-inch by 12-inch slot shall be used in place of the sleeves. C2.6.11 Underground raceways shall use a minimum of 4-inch conduit or duct. Route exterior metallic cables in raceways fabricated from galvanized-steel only. Drain slope shall not be less than 12 inches per 100 feet. C2.6.12 All conduits routing power cable must be galvanized or zinc plated steel and at least ž inch in diameter. C2.6.13 All conduits shall be installed in accordance with engineering specifications and drawings called out in the installation plan. C2.6.14 Selection and application of all metallic conduits shall comply with Article 342, 344, 348 and 350 of the NEC. C2.6.15 The minimum flexible conduit diameter shall be ž inch with the exception for a 6-foot maximum length whip from J-box to light fixture may be ˝ inch in diameter. A 3/8 inch flexible conduit shall be permitted if furnished as part of manufactured equipment connection. C2.6.16 All conduits shall be grounded at their far ends. In cases where a conduit run exceeds 133 feet (40 meters) the conduit is to be grounded at least every 100 feet (30 meters) with shall two AWG stranded copper wire. C2.6.17 A Metallic conduit terminated to an equipment rack is for the routing of power cables unless otherwise specified by the installation plan. C2.6.18 The total bond resistance between the conduit and the equipotential plane or signal ground bus is not to exceed 5 milliohms. C2.6.19 The total amount of cables in a conduit is not to exceed 40 percent of the cross-sectional capacity of the conduit. C2.6.20 Rigid conduit is to be supported at least every 6 feet (183 cm) and within 3 feet (91 cm) of each end. C2.6.21 A flexible ferrous metallic conduit must be supported at least every 4 ft. 6 in. (137 cm) and within 12 inches (30 cm) of any box or fitting. If a flexible metal conduit is used, the DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 38

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
length should be less than 6 meters (20 ft) for each run and the conduit selected should minimize cable abrasion during the pulling operation. C2.6.22 Conduits shall be de-burred after cutting. C2.6.23 All conduit fittings, connectors, boxes etc. shall be of the proper type and material for the conduit used and shall be properly assembled in accordance with the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.6.24 All conduit supports shall be of the proper size, type and material for the application, and shall be applied correctly in accordance with engineering drawings and as specified by the installation plan. No section of conduit shall be longer than 30 meters (100ft) between pull points. No section of conduit shall contain more than two 90-degree bends, or equivalent, between pull points. Bends in conduit and duct runs shall be limited to the equivalent of no more than two 90-degree bends between pull points. Conduits shall be bent to conform to the supporting structure. Supports are only for shoring the conduit. They are not to be used to force the conduit to conform to the supporting structure. C2.6.25 All conduits shall be installed plumb or level. C2.6.26 All wire shall exit conduit only through a connector or bushing. No wire shall exit through an unprotected end of the conduit. C2.6.27 Non-metallic conduits fabricated of PVC plastic schedule 40 are allowed for the routing of fiber optic cable. C2.6.28 All fiber ducts shall be supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. The end of a fiber duct is to be secured where it enters a cabinet or extends to a rack. C2.6.29 All fiber ducts shall be installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows. C2.6.30 All fiber duct fittings and supports shall be assembled properly, as IAW manufacturer's instructions or as specified by the installation plan. C2.6.31 Red and black fiber can share the same distribution vehicle as long as both red and black data is not contained DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 39

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
within the same multifiber cable. However, in TEMPEST facilities, Fiber carrying secure (RED) communication is to be encased in a metallic conduit or ducting and separated from BLACK communication by Protective Distribution Systems IAW NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, RED/BLACK Installation Guidance. Red and black signal wires, optical fibers, power cables, processors and equipment shall be separated IAW NTISSAM 2-95, TEMPEST RED/BLACK installation Guidance, 12 Dec 1995, and amendments. C2.6.32 If required by NSTISSAM 2-95 TEMPEST RED/BLACK Installation Guidance and its amendments and NTISSI-7003 Protective Distribution Systems, signal wires, optical fibers, power cables, etc shall be protected via conduit. C2.6.33 Fiber and copper cabling in cable trays and other jointly used pathways shall be separated to improve administration, operation, and minimize damage to smaller diameter fiber cables. Physical barriers between the two types of cables shall be used where practical to separate fiber and copper cables. C2.6.34 Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) is permissible for use in the following locations: interior partitions, above ceiling, and exterior walls above grade. C2.6.35 EMT is prohibited in hazardous or corrosive areas, concrete slabs or walls and below grade. C2.6.36 EMT is to be supported at least every 6 feet (183 cm) and within 3 feet (91 cm) of each end. C2.6.37 Cable trays and cable ladders must be fabricated from galvanized steel or aluminum stock. Cable trays shall be bonded and electrical continuously grounded. Cable trays will be supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. They will be supported by threaded rod hangers at a minimum interval of 5 feet on center, maximum interval of 6 feet and at all intersections and angles. Lateral threaded rods shall be utilized where lateral stress is likely to be present. C2.6.38 Cable trays and cable ducts shall be a maximum of 4inches deep. C2.6.39 All ducts and raceways shall be installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 40

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.6.40 All duct and raceway fittings shall be assembled properly and in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions as specified by the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.6.41 The edges of wire access cutouts in ducts and trays shall be covered with plastic grommet or other suitable protective material. C2.6.42 Ducting, ladders and trays shall be made electrically continuous by bonding together all sections and covers. Raceways shall be electrically bonded to the equipment frames that they feed through by physically mating or by wide, flexible solid metallic bond straps. C2.6.43 Cable ducting ladders and trays shall be bonded to the facility ground system with copper cable conforming to the 2000 cmil per foot (1X10-6 M2 per 30 cm) criteria. The bonding resistance between the ducting/raceway and the facility ground system is not to exceed five milli-ohms and is to be grounded not more than 2 feet (61 centimeters) from each end and every 50 feet (15 meters) along the length of the run. C2.6.44 Ducts containing AC power wiring shall be connected to the protective ground in the AC distribution panel. C2.6.45 Cable ducts, ladders or trays must be squarely cut and de-burred. The cut is to be positioned to allow for future expansion and installation of a coupling fitting. Wire is not to exit through the end cap of a raceway unless the duct cannot be physically extended further in that direction. C2.6.46 All exposed, unfinished, or marred surfaces shall be filed off and/or painted at the time of installation. The paint is to be of the color and type (enamel, oil base etc.) consistent with the existing or adjacent surface. C2.6.47 All materials (bolts, screws, threaded rods, framework, etc.) shall be secure and have no sharp edges or burrs. C2.6.48 The threads on bolts, cap screws, machine screws, rods and similar threaded parts are to extend at least equal to (flush with) the final thread of the fastening device, except in the case of cap nuts or self-locking nuts. The threaded part of a fastener is to protrude no more than an amount equal to the diameter of the bolt, screw or rod. Maximum amount of threads is 2-3. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 41

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.6.49 Threaded rods shall be screwed into the floor or ceiling inserted at least seven full turns. All anchor type hardware is to be of the type size and rating as specified in the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.6.50 Holes that were drilled into concrete floors, walls or ceilings, but were not used, shall be filled with an acceptable masonry patch. C2.6.51 All fastening details, piece parts, and other apparatus used in the assembly of cable racks shall be assembled in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications as specified in the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.6.52 Cable racks shall be rigid, level, properly supported, and properly aligned. The following rack clearances shall be maintained. Cable Rack Clearances Item Clearance Front 40" Rear 40" Rack rows exterior 24" sides Table C2.5.1 C2.6.53 Heat shrink tubing, sheathing or other approved manufactured threaded rod covering shall be placed on all threaded rods from the top of the relay racks to a height of 18 inches (46 cm) above the highest level of the cable ladder or cable rack. C2.6.54 When placing a cross aisle cable ladder, it must be positioned so as not to block the vertical cable ladder. C2.6.55 Cable runway pans shall be installed on the second tier cable ladder rack and must have no visible seams showing when viewed from the floor. C2.6.56 Cable runway pan seams shall be taped with duct tape at all seams so that the cable does not snag on the seams. C2.6.57 Unless otherwise specified by the installation plan, horizontal cable racks shall be supported on approximately 5 feet (152 cm) to a maximum of 6 feet (183 cm) centers. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 42

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.6.58 Each length of cable rack is to have at least two (2) support points. C2.6.59 There is to be no more than one (1) cable ladder splice between any two-support points on a horizontal run. C2.6.60 Exposed ends of all cable racks shall be finished with end caps. C2.6.61 Runway termination kits are required on all second tier cable ladder racks. C2.6.62 Exposed ends or sharp edges of cable rack stringers shall be covered with a protective material such as fiber paper or cable sheathing at cross-aisle locations, turns, offsets and points where the cable leaves the cable rack. C2.6.63 Cable racks are not to extend more than 30 inches past its last support. C2.6.64 When splicing a cable rack, sections shall be a minimum of 36" in length. C2.6.65 Cable rack sections shall be bonded together with a ground strap no smaller than 12 AWG at every seam and interface. They shall be bonded to the equipotential ground plane or signal ground bus not more than 24 inches (61 cm) from the end of each run and every 50 feet (15 meters) along the run. C2.6.66 When a cable rack is cut, it is to be cut squarely. The cut is to be positioned in such a way that shall allow for future expansion, placement of a closing bar, corner clamp, or splice. C2.6.67 Cable trays shall be designed to accommodate a maximum calculated fill ratio of 50% to a maximum of 150 mm(6 in) inside depth. C2.7 Frames, Bays and Cabinets

C2.7.1 The use of the word "frame" applies to distribution frames, cabinets, bays, or other equipment that occupies floor space. C2.7.2 An equipment frame consists of structural framework and all equipment mounted on it. Equipment frames are designed for the mounting of 19-inch or 23-inch rack-mountable equipment. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 43

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.7.3 There is to be at least three feet (91 cm) of free access space in the front, rear and sides of a continuous row of racks, unless the designated engineering authority of DISA Headquarters or the applicable DISA field office has granted a written waiver approved by the Commander or the Commander's appointed representative. C2.7.4 All frames shall be secured to the floor using the applicable bolts, lag-bolts, threaded-rods, masonry-anchors, flat washers, lock washers, and nuts. Secured to seismic zone 4 standards. C2.7.5 All frames, bays, and cabinets shall be positioned, fastened, and supported per the engineering drawings and the installation plan. C2.7.6 All exposed, unfinished, or marred surfaces shall be filed off and/or painted at the time of installation. The paint is to be of the color and type (enamel, oil base, etc.) consistent with the existing or adjacent surfaces. C2.7.7 All anchor type hardware is to be of the rating, type and size prescribed in the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.7.8 Holes that were drilled into concrete floors, walls, or ceilings, but were not used shall, will be filled with acceptable masonry patch. C2.7.9 The threads on bolts, cap screws, machine screws, rods and similar threaded parts are to extend at least equal to (flush with)the final thread of the fastening device, except in the case of cap nuts or self-locking nuts. The threaded part of a fastener shall protrude no more than an amount equal to the diameter to the bolt, screw or rod. C2.7.10 Threaded rods shall be screwed into floor or ceiling inserts at least seven full turns. C2.7.11 Threaded rods, which anchor the base of a channel relay rack, are to protrude no more than five threads above the nut. C2.7.12 Threaded rods, which anchor the base of an unequal flange bay, are to protrude no more than 1-1/2 inches (38 mm) above the base.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 44

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.7.13 The threaded part is to protrude no more than the diameter of the bolt, screw or rod, except when stated otherwise. C2.7.14 All threaded rods that go through a false floor shall be anchored in the sub-floor and are to have a flat washer and hex nut placed against the underside of the floor tile. C2.7.15 Floor masonry anchors shall be secured and not protrude above the concrete, tile or linoleum level. C2.7.16 Equipment frames shall be grounded to a nearby equipotential plane or signal ground bus. The telecommunication room's Grounding Bus Bar shall be equipped with a grounding conductor, which is attached to an approved electrode by a copper wire with a green colored insulator as illustrated in the adjacent picture. C2.7.17 The diameter of the ground cable is to be at least 2000 cmil (1X10-6 M2) per running foot. The minimum gauge of a ground cable for frame is six AWG. Refer to Table C2.7.1 below for listing of the maximum length of ground cable in respect the diameter of its conductor. Maximum Length of Ground Cables Cable Size(AWG) 750M (380 mm2) 600M (338 mm2) 500M (253.4 mm2) 350M (173.5 mm2) 300M (152 mm2) 250M (126.7 mm2) 4/0 (107.2 mm2) 3/0 (85 mm2) 2/0 (67.4 mm2) 1/0 (53.5 mm2) 1 (42.4 mm2) 2 (33.6 mm2) 4 (21.2 mm2) Maximum Path Length (Meters) 3751 M) 3001 M) 2506 M) 1753 M) 1505 M) 1258 M) 1052 M) 8425 M) 6620 M) 5316 M) 4112.5 M) 3310 M) 216.4 M) DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

Grounding Bus Bar Terminal Figure C2.7.1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 45

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6 8 (13.3 mm2) (8.4 mm2) 4 M) 2.4 M) Table C2.7.1 C2.7.18 Equipment frames shall be individually grounded to the equipotential plane or signal ground bus, and not grounded in series or "daisy chained" with other equipment frames. C2.7.19 The bare metal surfaces of equipments, frames, supporting structures, power and grounding systems that are bonded together must shows no signs of galvanic corrosion. A neutral metal shall be used to reduce the effects of galvanic corrosion. Metal surfaces of equipment, frames, supporting structures, power and grounding systems that are bonded together shall be galvanically compatible. Alternatively, they may be coated with a neutral material to reduce the effects of galvanic corrosion. Corrosive action between metals of different groups shall increase when the metallic bond is exposed to saltwater, saltwater spray, rain, or other liquids. The Galvanic Corrosion Guide Table is arranged starting with the most active (anodic) metal, magnesium, in the upper-left hand corner; and the least active (cathodic) metal, gold, in the lower-right hand corner. In addition, metals listed in the table are arranged in order of their galvanic compatibility with each other. Generally, the closer one metal is to another the lower the galvanic corrosion effects shall be, conversely, the further one metal is from another, the greater the galvanic corrosion effects shall be. In a galvanic couple, the metal higher in the series (towards the upper-left hand corner) are anode, and shall corrode preferentially in the environment. Metals widely separated in the table must be protected if they shall be joined together. This can be accomplished through metallic plating, applying a watertight sealant or paint to the surfaces of the bonding metals to reduce the flow of electrical current between the two metals. C2.7.20 All corrosion by-products, such as oxides, sulfides, sulfates, and other corrosion by-products shall be removed from the bonding material. C2.7.21 All nonconductive material must be removed from the bonding material, such as paints, other organic finishes; anodize films, oxide and sulfide films, oil, grease and other petroleum products.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 46

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.7.22 All solid matter which would interfere with the establishment of a low resistance path across the bond interface or which forms a wedge or barrier to keep the bond area open to the entrance of corrosive materials or agents must be removed. C2.7.23 Solid materials include dust, dirt, sand, metal filings, and corrosion by-products. C2.7.24 Mating bonding surfaces shall be clean and polished to a bright metal finish. C2.7.25 The bond surfaces shall be kept free of moisture before assembly. C2.7.26 The bond is to be assembled and sealed, if required, within two hours of its cleaning. Acceptable sealants are paint, silicone rubber, grease, and polysulfates. C2.7.27 Assemble bolted bonds for cable and strapping to a bus bar. The load distribution washers shall be positioned directly underneath the bolt head or nut that is next to the primary member. Lock-washers may be placed between the nut and any load distribution washers. Toothed lock washers are not to be placed between the primary bonded members but may be used as illustrated for interior locations where the bond is not exposed to moisture and where electrochemically compatible metals for the washer and bond members are utilized. C2.7.28 The proper bonding methods to a circular conductor such as wire and conduit are illustrated in Figures C2.7.3, C2.7.4 and C2.7.5. Do not use ordinary cable clamps to bond ground cable to flexible conduits since the required pressure on a comparatively small surface area may be sufficiently high to compress or collapse the conduit. Instead of ordinary clamps, use a flared, split sleeve fitted around the flexible conduit, as illustrated in Figure C2.7.5. The proper bonding of a ground cable to rigid conduit is shown in Figure C.2.7.5.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 47

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Order of Bolt Connection for Grounding Strap to Bus Bar Figure C2.7.2 Bolt Size #8 #l0 1/4" 5/16" 3/8" 7/16" 1/2" 5/8" 3/4" 7/8" 1" Threads/In. Min. 32 36 24 32 20 28 18 20 16 24 14 20 13 20 11 10 9 8 Torque (in -lbs) 18 20 23 32 80 100 140 150 250 275 400 425 550 575 920 1400 1950 2580 Tension (lbs) 625 685 705 940 1840 2200 2540 2620 3740 3950 5110 5120 6110 6140 7350 9300 11100 12900 Bond Area (in.)2 0.416 0.456 0.470 0.626 1.225 1.470 1.690 1.750 2.430 2.640 3.400 3.420 4.070 4.090 4.900 6.200 7.400 8.600

Minimum Torque Requirements for Bolted Bonds DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 48

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table C2.7.2 C2.7.29 All structural bolted connections are to conform to the torque requirements of Table C2.7.2. C2.7.30 The surfaces of the bond shall be kept free of moisture before assembly and the completed bond must be sealed against the entrance of moisture into the mating region. Acceptable sealants are paint, silicone rubber, grease, and polysulfates. Where paint has been removed prior to bonding, the completed bond is to be repainted to match the original finish. Excessively thinned paint is to be avoided. Compression bonds between copper conductors or between compatible aluminum alloys located in readily accessible areas not subject to weather exposure, corrosive fumes, or excessive dust do not require sealing. This however is subject to the approval by DISA NS6 or the project's appointed QA inspector. C2.7.31 Bond resistance between the ground wire connector and equipment chassis or ground bus is to be less than 1 milli-ohm. C2.7.32 Resistance between equipment chassis or signal ground and respective ground bus is to be less than 5 milli-ohms. C2.7.33 The measurement of an electrode subsystem shall be performed and/or verified using the fall-of-potential method described in paragraph 2.7.2 of MIL-HDBK-419. An earth resistance of less than five ohms is required for DISN facilities. C2.7.34 Frames shall be leveled and squared. The vertical alignment of the framework is to be plumb. Adjacent frames may step up or down not more than 1/8 inch (3 mm) to conform to the contour of the floor.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 49

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Order of Bolt Connection for Grounding Cable to Bus Bar Figure C2.7.3

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 50

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Bonding to a Flexible Cable or Conduit Figure C2.7.4

Bonding to a Ridge Conduit or Pipe Figure C2.7.5

Frame Height 4' (137 7' (213 6" to 7' 0" cm to 213 cm) 0" to 9' 0" cm to 274 cm)  9' 0" (>274 cm)

Maximum Allowable Deviation From Vertical Plumb 1/8" (3 mm) 3/16" (5 mm) 1/4" (6 mm)

Framework Vertical Alignment Table C2.7.3 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 51

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.7.35 All adjacent frames shall be bolted together except where otherwise specified by engineering drawings and the installation plan. C2.7.36 Joined ends of frames are to not be out of alignment (in or out from a straight line extending the full length of the lineup) more than 1/16" (2 mm). C2.7.37 Open relay racks or unequal flange bays are anchored to the floor with all four-anchor holes unless otherwise specified in the installation plan. C2.7.38 All enclosed equipment racks of a continuous lineup or isolated racks must be secured and anchored to the floor in all four corners unless specified otherwise by the installation plan. C2.7.39 All doors are to open and close properly and the DISN site must meet the physical security and threat intrusion criteria contained in MIL-HDBK-411B, Appendix C, Physical Security. This may include access control, perimeter fences, perimeter lighting, closed circuit television (CCTV), and an intrusion detection system. Additional design guidelines are given in MIL-HDBK-1013/1. C2.7.40 Equipment cabinets are designed and configured, and their rack-mounted equipment is positioned to provide sufficient thermal cooling, natural air convection or forced air convection from internal fans to ensure the proper operation of the rack's electronic equipment in accordance with the specifications, installation and maintenance manuals of the electronic equipment. With the room's ambient temperature between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit, operate all the rack's electrical and electronic equipment at full capacity for at least four hours. Then request network operations telnet into the devices to ensure equipment temperature is within a safe operating range before departing site. C2.7.41 Separation of adjacent equipment within a frame is to be in accordance with engineering drawings and the installation plan. Top and bottom interval spacing of at least 1.75 inches (44 mm) is to be provided for equipment that is cooled through conventional means, unless otherwise specified by the installation plan.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 52

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.8.1 All fastening details, piece parts and other apparatus used in the installation of Slotted Channel shall be assembled in accordance with manufacturer's specifications, as specified by the engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.8.2 The location of Slotted Channel and other equipment is to conform to the particular floor plan and specifications for the installation in accordance with engineering drawings and installation plan. C2.8.3 All materials (bolts, screws, threaded rods, framework, etc.) shall be secure and have no sharp edges or burrs. C2.8.4 The Slotted Channel is anchored directly to the flooring using fasteners spaced no greater that 2 ft. 6 in. (76 cm) apart. C2.8.5 Slotted Channel may be cut as needed to fit around obstructions. It is to be cut squarely. Ends shall be finished with an end cap if specified by the installation plan. C2.8.6 The threads on bolts, cap screws, machine screws, rods and similar threaded parts shall be engaged through to the final thread of the Slotted Channel (spring) nut. C2.8.7 The threaded rods shall be fastened to the Slotted Channel using flat plate washers, lock washers and nuts. C2.8.8 All bolts, nuts, and screws used to secure any part or unit shall be tight. Conduit, Raceway, or Duct C2.9.1 All conduits shall be installed in accordance with engineering specifications and drawings called out in the installation plan. C2.9.2 All unused knockouts of raceways, electrical boxes and cabinets shall be closed or covered to prevent the entry of foreign objects into their interior. C2.9.3 Conduits shall be placed so as not to block future cabling and equipment installations.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 53

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.9.4 All conduits must be grounded at their far ends. In cases where a conduit run exceeds 133 feet (40 meters) the conduit shall be grounded at least every 100 feet (30 meters) with 2-AWG stranded copper wire. C2.9.5 The total bond resistance between the conduit and the equipotential plane or fault protection subsystem is not to exceed five milli-ohms. C2.9.6 The number of wires or cables in a conduit may not exceed 40 percent of the cross-sectional capacity of the conduit. C2.9.7 Rigid conduit or EMT must be supported at least every 6 feet (183 cm) and within 3 feet (91 cm) of each end. C2.9.8 In the effort of shielding electrical and magnetic fields from emanating from power lines, only ferrous metallic conduits, raceways, or ducts shall be used as raceways for the distribution of AC or DC power lines in a computer or communication facilities. Aluminum, copper or non-metallic conduits, raceways or ducts are not to be used in conveying power-lines. C2.9.9 Flexible ferrous metallic conduit must be supported at least every 4 ft. 6 in. (137 cm) and within 12 inches (30 cm) of any box or fitting. C2.9.10 Conduits must be deburred after cutting. C2.9.11 All shall be of and must be engineering conduit fittings, connectors, boxes, couplings, etc. the proper type and material for the conduit used properly assembled in accordance with the drawings and installation plan.

C2.9.12 All conduit supports shall be of the proper size, type and material for the application, and must be applied correctly in accordance with engineering drawings and as specified by the installation plan. Conduits must be bent to conform to the supporting structure. Supports are only for shoring the conduit; they are not to be used to force the conduit to conform to the supporting structure. C2.9.13 All conduits shall be installed plumb or level. C2.9.14 Wire must exit conduits only through a connector or bushing. Wire may not exit through the unprotected end of the conduit. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 54

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.9.15 Ducts and raceways shall be supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. C2.9.16 All ducts and raceways shall be installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows. C2.9.17 All duct and raceway fittings shall be assembled properly, per IAW manufacturer's instructions or as specified by the engineering drawings and INSTALLATION PLAN. C2.9.18 The edges of wire access cutouts in ducts and raceways shall be covered with plastic grommet or other suitable protective material. C2.9.19 Ducting and raceways shall be made electrically continuous by bonding together all sections and covers. Associated brackets or hangers shall be electrically bonded to the ducting or raceway. Ducting and raceway shall be electrically bonded to the equipment frames that they feed through physically mating or by wide, flexible solid metallic bond straps. C2.9.20 Ducting and raceways shall be bonded to the facility ground system with copper cable conforming to the 2000cmil per foot (1X10-6 M2 per 30 cm) criteria. The bonding resistance between the ducting/raceway and the facility ground system is not to exceed five milli-ohms and is to be grounded not more than 2 feet (61 centimeters) from each end and every 50 feet (15 meters) along the length of the run. Ducts containing AC power wiring must be connected to the protective ground in the AC distribution panel. C2.9.21 Ducts or raceways must be squarely cut and deburred. The cuts shall be positioned to allow for future expansion and for the installation of a coupling fitting. Wire may not exit through the end cap of a duct or raceway unless the duct cannot be physically extended further in that direction. C2.9.22 Fiber ducts must be supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. The end of a fiber duct must be secured where it enters a cabinet or extends to a rack. C2.9.23 All fiber ducts must be installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 55

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C2.9.24 All fiber duct fittings and supports shall be assembled properly, per the IAW manufacturer's instructions as specified by the installation plan. C2.9.25 Fiber carrying secure (RED) communication must be incased in metallic conduit or ducting. Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 56

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C3. CHAPTER 3. Requirements C3.1 Firestopping and Plenum Fire Prevention

General Requirements

C3.1.1 DISN facilities are of a TYPE-1 or TYPE-2 construction; therefore its walls, fire walls, structural elements, arches, floors and roofs are of approved noncombustible or limited combustible material. C3.2 Fire Stops

C3.2.1 Where cables, conduits etc. penetrate floors or fire walls, fires stops shall be provided and have ratings equal to the fire resistance rating of the partitions being penetrated. C3.2.2 Written certifications or specifications verify that materials used in a fire block are fire resistance in accordance with NFPA-251 testing. C3.2.3 Penetrations through floors are enclosed in a shaft designed as a fire barrier. C3.2.4 Where concrete, grout or mortar has been used to fill the annular space around cast iron copper, or steel piping or steel conduit or tubing, that penetrates one or more concrete or masonry fire resistance­rated assemblies, and the following also applies: C3.2.5 The nominal diameter of each penetrating item shall not exceed 6 in (15 cm). C3.2.6 The openings' size may not exceed 144 inch2 ( 92,909 mm2). C3.2.7 The thickness of the concrete, grout or mortar shall be the full thickness of the fire-stop assembly. C3.2.8 Maximum norminal diameter of the pentetrating itemn is less than 4 inches and does not exceed an aggregate of 100 square inches open in any 100 square foot of floor or wall area. C3.2.9 Where there is an item penetrating through a floor/ceiling or wall, use a sleeve to penetrate the floor or wall. The sleeve shall be securely set in the wall or floor/ceiling, and the space between the item and sleeve shall be filled with a material that complies with NFPA 251 such as concrete, grout or mortar. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS Page 57

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C3.2.10 Insulation and covering material for penetrating item shall not pass through the wall or floor unless the insulation or covering is in complance with NFPA-251. C3.2.11 Unshielded coupling shall not be used to connect noncombustible piping to combustible piping. C3.2.12 Membrane penetration for cables, cable trays, conduits, pipes, tubes, wires and similar items to accomidate electrical, mechanical and communication systems that pass through a membrane of a floor or wall or floor/ceiling assembly constructed as a fire barrier shall be protected by a firestop system at sites. C3.2.13 Any steel electrical box not exceeding 16 square inches (10,300 mm2) in area shall be permitted where the aggregate area of the opening provided for the boxes does not exceed 100 square inches (64,520 mm2) in any 100 square foot wall area and where outlet boxes are installed on the on the opposite side of the walls shall be separated by the following means: C3.2.14 By a horizontal distance of not less than 24 inches. C3.2.15 By a solid fire-blocking in accordance with NFPA-1: Uniform Fire Code [UFC], 2009 C3.3 Plenum Cable.

C3.3.1 Insulation of allcables installed in the ceiling plenum or below the raised floor must meet the requirements of NFPA-70. Communication cables installed in ceiling spaces and under raised floors shall be plenum rated or installed in a metallic conduit if installed in a plenum air space. C3.3.2 Coaxial cables, telecommunication cables, optical fiber cables, wire and cables intended for powering signal processing equipment, including insulated ground wire installed in the plenum, shall have a maximum flame spread density less 1.52 meters. C3.3.3 Cables installed in ducts, plenums and other spaces used for environmental air shall be of types BLP, CATVP, CMP, OFNP, OFCP.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 58

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C3.3.4 Abandoned cable shall not be permitted to remain in spaces used for environmental air. C3.3.5 Type BLP, BLX, CATV, CATVP, CATVR, CMG, CMP, CMR, CMG, CMX, OFNP, OFNCP, OFNR, OFNR, OFCR, OFNG, OFCG, OFN or OFC communication cables may be installed under raised-floor plenums, in enclosed metallic raceways in telecommunication equipment areas that are occupied by personnel involved only in the operation and maintenance of the equipment. C3.3.6 Cables installed in vertical runs and penetrating more than one floor, or cables installed in vertical runs in a shaft, shall be type BLP, BLR, BMR, CATVP, CATVR, CMP, CMR, OFNP, OFCP, OFNR or OFCR. Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 59

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4. C4.1 CHAPTER 4. Signal Cabling and Wire

General Requirements

C4.1.1 The maximum distance for unbroken Category 5 and Category 6 cables carrying Ethernet digital signals is 100 meters, unless otherwise specified in the BESEP, TSIP or EIP. C4.1.2 Cables and wires selected are rated for carrying at least twice the maximum planned RMS current load. The RMS voltage rating of the selected cables and wires shall be at least twice the maximum planned applied RMS voltage or 150 percent more than the planned applied peak voltage. C4.1.3 All cables and wire shall be of the specified type, color, and gauge as outlined in the installation plan, Cable/Wire Run List. C4.1.4 Cables and wires are secured every 18 inches (46cm). C4.1.5 All cables and wires shall be positioned, placed and supported according to the installation plan specifications. They shall be supported and secured at least every 18 inches (46 cm). C4.1.6 Cables are not to be dropped between rungs of the cable ladder rack unless specified by the installation plan. C4.1.7 All wires shall be dressed in such a manner as to avoid congestion and stress on terminations, and additionally to ensure accessibility and proper clearance between terminals. C4.1.8 Cables are not to be routed to obstruct access to terminals. C4.1.9 Care is to be taken when stripping wire so that the wire is not nicked or scraped. C4.1.10 Wires shall be stripped to the proper length for accommodating the connection being made in accordance with manufacturer's instructions or applicable standard. C4.1.11 All spare and unused wires for planned future installation shall be long enough to reach any future required termination point. Coil and store all cabling designated "future" so that they can be accessed when required. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 60

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.1.12 All spare and unused cable pairs shall be terminated to ground and properly treated (dressed in heat shrink, cable sheath, or fiber tubing and properly secured to the cable, fan, or form). C4.1.13 The QA inspector is to verify through sampling inspection that all signal cables were tested in accordance with the testing section of the approved installation plan or in accordance with the test procedures and standards as directed by DISA NS6 for the selected cable type and applications. The inspector is to be cognizant of the cable types to be tested their applications and the types that shall be performed on the cables under test to verify the quality of the cable and the installation workmanship. The following is a list of standard cable tests: operational bandwidth, insulation breakdown voltage, insulation resistance, impedance, insertion loss, reflectometer, return loss, standing wave ratio, etc. C4.1.14 Upon request, the lead installer or assigned test personnel is to present the QA inspector with a test plan for the testing of the cables that were installed during the installation. The test plan is to include test procedures for each different type of cable installed and pass and fail test criteria. If the installer or tester does not have a test plan as described above contact DISA NS6. C4.1.15 The test personnel are to show the QA test equipment and accessories used in the performance of the cable testing. All the test equipment is to be in good working order and calibrated. C4.1.16 Test personnel, upon request, are to demonstrate to the QA inspector that they are proficient in the use of test instruments in the performance of all assigned cable test procedures in accordance with the test plan, installation. C4.1.17 All cable measurements shall be recorded on data sheets. In addition to the test data, the following information is to be listed on the data sheets: Type of measurement, type of cable, location of the cable's terminations, date of measurement, name of personnel performing the measurement, manufacturer, and model number of test instruments used in performing measurement. C4.1.18 The QA inspector shall randomly choose from the data sheet several cables that were previously measured and request that the test personnel repeat the measurements before the DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 61

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
inspector. The tester is to demonstrate a reasonably good degree of competence and proficiency in the test set-up and performance of the measurement. C4.1.19 All measurements requested by the QA inspector shall be within plus or minus 5% of their initial value listed on the data sheet. If the difference between the proof-measurement and the initial measurement is more than 10% or if the measurements are not within the specified limit, the inspector is to notify DISA NS6. C4.1.20 When possible, cables are to lie side by side on cable racks without crossing one another. Cables leaving a rack are to retain their respective positions in relation with each other. Cable runs shall be planned as much as possible so that cables leaving a newly installed rack are on the top layer of cables in the wire way and do not cross over one another when the path of one or more cables deviate. C4.1.21 Where power cables and signal cables are run parallel to each other for a length exceeding 10 meters, either the power or signal cables or both shall be contained within a raceway, conduit or ducting fabricated from a metal that provides sufficient electrical and magnetic shielding below 1-kilohertz (such as galvanized steel or zinc plated steel). Otherwise, it is recommended that they are physically separated by at least one meter or more to prevent the coupling of transients or EMI from the power line onto the signal line.
Power Lines Galvanized Steel Conduit

Gounding Band

Power Lines Signal Lines Steel Partition Power Line Galvanizied Steel Cable Trays Signal Lines

Galvanizied Steel Duct

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 62

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Wire ways Use in Shielding Power Line Radiated Emissions Figure C4.1.1 C4.1.22 The distances in Table C4.1.1 shall be maintained between electrical power cables and twisted-pair cables. Electrical codes may require a barrier or greater separation than specified in Table C4.1.1. Refer to NFPA 70, article 800 or applicable electrical code for additional information. C4.1.23 If the power cables are unshielded, then the separation distances provided in Table C4.1.1 shall be doubled. However, these distances can apply to unshielded power cables if either the power cables or data cables are installed in bonded and grounded metal trays. The side or the bottom of the metal tray shall separate the power cables from the twisted-pair cables and this separation surface should be solid metal. The shielding shall surround the cable (except at the receptacle) and shall be properly bonded and grounded in accordance with the applicable electrical codes. C4.1.24 There are no requirements for the separation of power and telecommunications cabling crossing at right angles, except the separation requirements mandated by applicable electrical codes. C4.1.25 No separation distance is required when either the data cables or the power cables are enclosed in a metallic raceway or conduit that meets the following requirements: ˇ ˇ ˇ The metallic raceway or conduit shall completely enclose the cables and be continuous; The metallic raceway or conduit shall be properly bonded and grounded in accordance with applicable electrical codes; The raceway or conduit shall be at least 1 mm (0.04 in) thick if made of galvanized (low carbon) steel or 2 mm (0.08 in) thick if made of aluminum. Electrical Circuit Type 20A 110/240V unshielded 20A 110/240V 20A 110/240V 20A 110/240V 1-phase shielded or 1-phase shielded 1-phase shielded 1-phase shielded Separation Distance 50 mm (2 in) 100 mm (4 in) 150 mm (6 in) 300 mm (12 in)

Number of Pairs 1-15 16-30 31-60 61-90

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 63

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
91+ 20A 110/240V 1-phase shielded 300 mm (12 in) 1+ 100A 415V 3-phase shielded feeder 300 mm (12 in) Separation Between Twisted­Pair and Shielded Power Cables Table C4.1.1 C4.1.26 Unless otherwise specified in 4.1.16, a minimum of four inches (10 cm) of separation between power lines and control/signal lines is to be maintained in the cabinets/racks. No separation distance is required when the data cables or the power cables are enclosed in metallic raceway or conduit. C4.1.27 All power cables shall be routed along the side of the equipment frame that is opposite to the control and signal cables. Generally, ground, control and signal lines are routed down the right side of an equipment cabinet/rack, and power lines are routed along the left side of an equipment cabinet/rack. C4.1.28 Cables are to leave the rack directly above or below the cabinet, rack, or frame that it terminates to. Cables are to leave the rack, flowing over the edge creating a "waterfall effect", with no excessive slack and not pulled tight. C4.1.29 All cables are to enter intermediate and main distribution frames from top or bottom not from side to side. C4.1.30 Cables serving the vertical side shall be routed to the left of the transverse arm near the terminal strip and kept forward of the spacer bar in order to avoid interference with cross connects. C4.1.31 For cables other than connecting cables, the cable butts shall be located level with the first fanning hole of the terminal block, 1 inch (25 mm) behind the terminal block-fanning strip. C4.1.32 Cables serving the horizontal side of the frame shall be routed to the flat side of the transverse arm and secured near the vertical upright. C4.1.33 Cables then cross over the arm, make a half turn, and are secured in the channel of the transverse arm. C4.1.34 For cables other than connecting cables, the cable butt is to be located 3 inches (76 mm) behind the terminal lockfanning strip.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 64

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.1.35 Minimum bending radius is to be maintained for all cables as specified by the manufacturer. C4.1.36 The inside radius of a bend in a conduit shall be at least six times the internal diameter. When the conduit size is greater than 52 (2) trade size, the inside radius shall be at least 10 times the internal diameter of the conduit. C4.1.37 When the minimum bending radius is not specified, the following criteria shall be followed: five X diameter for paired cables, and 10 X diameter for coax, triax, twinax, helix and fiber optic. C4.1.38 No cabling or wiring is to be routed directly from one cabinet or rack to another. All cabling between cabinets is to be routed over the cable ladder or under the raised floor. C4.1.39 The overall shields of interior and exterior backbone cables shall be grounded at both ends or in accordance to the manufacturer's instructions. A cable's overall shield is to be directly bonded to a ground conductor IAW the manufacturer's guidelines. C4.2 Multi-conductor Cable Terminations

C4.2.1 In cases where cable butts are covered with heat shrinkable tubing, the shrinkable tubing is to extend from 1 inch (2.5 cm) above to 1 inch (2.5 cm) below the butt. Heat shrink is not to be used on cable butts within connector backshells unless specified by the Installlation plan. C4.2.2 Cable sheaths shall be butted where the conductors break off to be terminated to the equipment using heat shrink tubing or crimp-type butts. C4.2.3 There shall be no changes or modifications made to the DSX panel or any other equipment. C4.2.4 Cables that enter a Type 66, 89, or 110 terminal block, or similar type blocks shall be butted where they enter the block. All four-pair horizontal cables shall be terminated in an eight-position modular jack at the work area. C4.2.5 Only a minimum amount of slack in the length of a cable is to be permitted in a cable rack. The excess length of the cable is to accommodate the changing of cable's terminating connectors five times and to relieve the stresses associated DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 65

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
with movement of objects to which the cable is terminated to or fastens to. C4.2.6 All shielded cables and wires carrying signals of frequencies less than 30 kilohertz or of data rates of less than 30 KBPS shall be ground bonded at one end only unless specified by the equipment manufacture or installation drawing.. Typically, shielded cables and wires shall be grounded at the distribution frame or block termination. C4.2.7 Connectors' shells (covers) shall be installed IAW applicable manufacture instructions or standard. There shall be no excess slack of terminated conductors inside of connector backshells. Conductors shall be fanned inside the backshell. Spare conductors shall be trimmed to reach the furthest pin and neatly folded or coiled inside the backshell. The connector shall be assembled with the strain relief engaging the cable sheath. C4.2.8 Twisted pair cables carrying signals greater than 1 MHz or 1 MBPS shall be terminated to Type-110 distribution blocks, or termination blocks having stray capacitance and high conductive characteristics that are similar or better than the Type-110 block. Note that the Type-66 block electrical characteristics are substandard to those of the Type-110 block. C4.2.9 The insulation of cables and wires that are to pass through areas used for the circulation of air in a building, such as ducting, raised-floors and suspended ceilings, shall be plenum rated. This guideline is not to be waivered due to the high toxicity of the gases emitted by some burning plastics that are used in electrical insulation. C4.2.10 Modular connectors shall be the proper size and type for the cable being terminated (solid/stranded, gauge, diameter, oval/flat). Cables shall be the proper type for a modular connector. The connector is to be applied properly. The strain relief is to engage the cable sheath. The conductors shall be pushed completely into the connector so that the contacts fully engage the conductors. C4.3 Light Guide (Fiber Optic) Cabling

C4.3.1 Fiber optic cables shall be segregated from other types of cables and shall be either installed in separate cable raceways or in fiber management systems such as fiber ducting. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 66

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.3.2 The telecommunications outlet box shall be capable of housing two terminated optical fibers as a minimum. The outlet box shall have the ability to secure the optical fiber cable and provide for a minimum fiber bend radius of 25 mm (1 in.). C4.3.3 Light guide cables conveying secure (TS/SCI) information or data shall be encased in a metallic conduit or a ducting system that can be secured or protected from undetected tampering. C4.3.4 Light guide cables shall be routed loose without restraints. Velcro cable straps may be used to secure these types of cable. C4.3.5 When it is necessary to secure a light guide cable, the cable is not to be fastened so tightly as to cause damage or deform the cable. Optical fiber cables should be designed to provide flexibility for mounting on walls, in racks, or on other types of distribution frames and standard mounting hardware. Nylon cable ties are not to be used for banding or securing fiber optic cables. It is recommended that light guide cabling be routed in plastic flex-tubing. C4.3.6 Fiber cables intended for horizontal or centralized cabling shall support a bend radius of 25 mm (1 in.) under noload conditions. C4.3.7 When not subject to a tensile load, inside plant cables shall support a bend radius of 10 times the cable outside diameter. C4.3.8 The inside plant cables shall support a bend radius 15 times the cable outside diameter when subject to tensile loading up to the cable's rated limit. C4.3.9 Light guided cables shall be installed with no kinks, surface damage or any other deformity. Fiber cables intended to be pulled through horizontal pathways during installation shall support a bend radius of 50 mm (2 in.) under a pull load of 222 N (50 lb/foot). C4.3.10 The maximum horizontal distance fiber cable is 90 meters independent of media type. C4.3.11 The maximum channel distance including equipment cords is 100 meters. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 67

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.3.12 The maximum cabling distance in a data center not containing a horizontal distribution area is 300 meters for an optical fiber channel including equipment cords. C4.3.13 Slack in light guide cables are not to be stored unprotected in a rack. The excess cable must be coiled into a light guide cable storage device. C4.3.14 When running cables are equipped with optical connectors, the connectors shall be protected with a cover to prevent damage and contamination to the connector. C4.3.15 Fiber optic cables that pass through areas used for the circulation of air in a building, such as ducting, raised-floors and suspended ceilings, shall be plenum rated. This guideline may not be waived due to the high toxicity of the gases emitted by some burning plastics that are used in the fabrication of light guide cables. C4.3.16 A successful Quality Assurance (QA) prorgam may include sample testings of fiber optic cables in accordance with the testing section of the installation plan, in accordance with the test procedures and standards directed, or as directed by DISA NS6. The following is a list of standard fiber optic cable tests that may be conducted: attenuation, end-to-end attenuation, continuity, length, insertion loss, cable assembly link loss test, cable assembly return loss, and end-to-end return loss test. C4.3.17 The vendor's lead installer or assigned test personnel should be able to present their QA inspector with a test plan for the testing of the fiber optic cables that were installed during the installation. The test plan is to include test procedures for each different type of cable installed and pass and fail test criteria. If the installer or tester does not have a test plan as described above, contact DISA NS6 for direction. C4.3.18 The vendor's implementation personnel should be able to demonstrate the use of their test equipment and accessories in the performance of the cable tests to their QA inspector. All the test equipment is to be in good working order and calibrated. C4.3.19 Cable measurements should be recorded on data sheets. In addition to the test data, the following information is to be listed on the data sheets: Type of measurement, type of cable, DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 68

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
location of cable's terminations, date of measurement, name of personnel performing the measurement, manufacturer, and model number of test instruments used in performing measurements. C4.3.20 The QA inspector may randomly sample data sheets and compare results to the fiber optic cables that were previously measured and request that the test personnel repeat the measurements before the inspector. The tester is to demonstrate a reasonably good degree of competence and proficiency in the test set-up and performance of the measurement. C4.3.21 All measurements requested by the QA inspector should be within 5% of their initial value listed on the data sheet. If more than 10% of the measurements are not within the specified limit, the inspector should take steps to correct the issue to prevent problems in future installations. C4.3.22 Unless otherwise directed by the approved installation test plan or DISA NS6, outside plant fiber optical cable installations and carrier wave implementations shall be tested in accordance with the following test procedures: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ TIA/EIA 455-50B Light Launch Conditions for Long-length Graded Index Optical Fiber Spectral Attenuation Measurements. TIA/EIA 455-59A Measurements of Fiber Point Discontinuity Using an Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR). TIA/EIA 455-61A Measurement of Fiber or Cable's Length Using OTDR. TIA/EIA 526-7 Optical Power Loss Measurements of Installed Single mode Fiber Cable Plant. TIA/EIA 526-14-A Optical Power Loss Measurements of Installed Multimode Fiber Cable Plant.

C4.3.23 Unless otherwise directed by the installation plan or the DISA NS6 each cabling link shall be in compliance with the following test limits:

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 69

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.4 Optical Loss Testing

C4.4.1 Backbone, single and multimode links: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Link Attenuation (Att)(dB)= Cable Att(dB) + Connector Att(dB) + Splice Att(dB) Cable Att(dB) = Attenuation Coefficient(dB/Km) * Length(Km) Connector Att + number of connector pairs * connector loss (dB) Maximum allowable connector loss = 0.75dB Splice Att(dB) = number of splices * splice loss(dB) Maximum allowable splice loss = 0.3 (dB)

C4.4.2 The value of the Attenuation Coefficient (dB/Km) is listed in the table below. Type of Optical Fiber Multimode 62.5/125 ľm Multimode 62.5/125 ľm Single mode(Inside plant) Single mode(Outside plant) Wavelength (nm) 850 850 1310 Attenuation Coefficient (dB/Km) 3.0 3.5 1.0 Wavelength (nm) 1300 1300 1510 Attenuation Coefficient (dB/Km) 1.5 1.5 1.0

1310

0.5

1510

0.5

Fiber Optic Cable Attenuation Coefficient Table C4.4.1 C4.4.3 Horizontal multimode links: C4.4.3.1 The acceptance link attenuation for a multimode horizontal optical fiber cabling system is based on the maximum 90 meters distance. C4.3.2 The horizontal link may be tested using a fixed upper limit for attenuation of 2.0 dB. This value is based on the loss of two connector pairs, one pair at the telecommunication outlet/connector and one pair at the horizontal cross-connect plus 90 meters of optical fiber cable. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 70

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C4.4.3.3 A horizontal link in an open office-cabling network with a consolidation point may be tested using a fixed upper limit of 4.1 dB. C4.4.4 Centralized multimode link: C4.4.4.1 The acceptable link attenuation for a multimode centralized optical fiber cabling system is based on the maximum 300-meter distance. C4.4.4.2 The centralized link may be tested using an upper limit for attenuation of 3.3dB. This value is based on the loss of three connector pairs, one pair at the telecommunication outlet/connector, one pair at the consolidation point and one pair at the horizontal cross-connect plus 300 meters of optical fiber cable. C4.4.4.3 A horizontal link in and Open Office Cabling with a consolidation point may be tested using a fixed upper limit for attenuation of 4.1 dB. C4.4.5 OTDR testing: C4.4.5.1 Reflective events (connections) shall not exceed 0.75 dB. C4.4.5.2 Non-reflective events (splices) shall not exceed 0.3 dB. C4.4.6 Magnified end-face inspection. ˇ ˇ ˇ Fiber connectors shall be visually inspected for end face quality. Scratched, pitted or dirty connectors shall be diagnosed and corrected. Optical fiber splices shall not exceed a maximum optical attenuation of 0.3 dB and shall have a minimum return loss of 20 dB for multi mode, 26 dB for single mode.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 71

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C4.4.6.1 The installation workmanship and the operational performance of an inside fiber optic cable plant shall comply with the approved installation plan, engineering drawings and test plan. Its design and performance shall comply with the requirements of UFC-3-580-01 and ANSI S-83-596, unless otherwise directed. Report immediately to DISA NS6 if the installation plan does not meet the criteria for a DISN facility, or if any of its engineering drawings or performance tests are found to be below standard or insufficient in content to conduct a QA inspection in accordance with DOD standards from DISN facilities. C4.5 Straps: Nylon Cable Ties (Tie-wraps), Wax Lacing, and Velcro

C4.5.1 Nylon cable ties are not to be used for banding or securing fiber optic cables, power strips or equipment. Velcro straps should be used to manage fiber optic cables so that the cable is not strapped too tight or the insulation is not crushed. Wax string should be used on all DC & AC power cables or bundled coax. When using wax string (lacing) care should be used when knotting string to present a professional appearnce, such as all knots behind cable bundle. C4.5.2 Nylon cable ties may be used to secure cable and wire above and below raised access floors. They shall be free of sharp edges. The tail or exposed end is to be flush or extend no more than 1/64 inch (0.5 mm) beyond the tail head. C4.5.3 Specific tools (flush cut) designed to cut tails off nylon cable ties shall be used. Tension of the tie wrap gun is to be set correctly for each application. C4.5.4 Nylon cable ties shall be tensioned tightly enough to hold the wires securely together and/or properly positioned, but not so tightly or at such angles as to cause possible damage to the insulation of the wire or cable. C4.5.5 The nylon cable ties banded around wire and cable must be capable of being rotated with slight to moderate pressure applied with the thumb to the head of the tie. The wires or cables under and/or adjacent to the tie may not twist when rotating the tie. C4.5.6 The permanent use of nylon cable ties is permissible above or below raised access floors in installations. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 72

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C4.5.7 Welding cables used for DC power or grounding shall be protected when secured with nylon cable ties.

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 73

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5. C5.1 CHAPTER 5. CONNECTORS

General Requirements

C5.1.1 Cables and wires shall be of a sufficient length at the area of a connector's termination to allow replacement of the connector at least five times. C5.2 Soldering Connections

C5.2.1 Soldering connections are to have concave fillets around the complete connection. The soldering connection is to have a good wetting characteristic, evidenced by smooth feathering of the fillet onto the connection elements, and the formation of a small angle of contact between the solder fillet and the elements being joined. C5.2.2 Only 63/37 rosin-core solder or 60/40 rosin-core solder is to be used for making soldered connections. C5.2.3 Only rosin based flux conforming to types R or RMA of MIL-F-14256 is to be used for making a soldered connection. The flux used in the solder (wicking) braid is to be type R or RMA. Rosin base flux conforming to Type RA of MIL-F-14256 shall be used for tinning component leads of sealed devices, solid bus wire, and terminals.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 74

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.2.4 Solder connections shall be free of the following defects: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Non-soldered connection Solder bridging Rosin flux connection Cold solder joints Solder connections with stress lines Connections of insufficient solder Connections of excessive solder Solder splatter, Pin-holes in the solder Pits in the connection exposing inner surface of connection Contaminated connections Non-wetting wherein basis metal is exposed Solder connection dull grainy and gray in appearance Solder silvers Overheated connections where solder is dull and chalking in appearance Measling of the solder Improperly cut wires Excessive wicking where the solder extends to the wire's insulation

C5.2.5 The soldering procedure for cup type terminals found in connectors must comply with the following procedures: C5.2.6 Place the connector in a holding fixture at approximately a 45 degree angle with the open side cup facing up. C5.2.7 Apply heat to the side of the cup until the flow temperature of the solder is reached. C5.2.8 Slowly feed the solder into the cup until the required amount is present. C5.2.9 If required, place insulation tubing on the wire and slide it back out of the way.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 75

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.2.10 Place the iron on the side of the cup near the bottom and heat until the solder is molten. Place the stripped and tinned wire in the cup, bottoming the wire in the cup. Maintain heat until it forms a good fillet to the cup and wire. Do not heat longer than necessary to form an acceptable connection since excessive heat can cause excessive wicking under insulation. Ensure wire does not move while the solder is solidifying. C5.2.11 The soldering procedure for turret-terminals is to be the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Tin the conductor of the wire with solder. The bend in the wire is to maintain contact with post. The curvature of the wrap is to extend no less than 180 degrees and not more than 270 degrees. There shall be no more than three conductors for each section of turret terminal. Apply the tinned iron tip to the connection at a point near the midpoint of the mechanical wrap, and heat to the flow temperature of the solder. Feed a sufficient amount of solder to form a heat bridge to the other side of the connection. First remove the solder source, then the iron.

ˇ ˇ

C5.2.12 The soldering procedure for bifurcated terminals is to be the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Tin the conductor of the wire with solder. The wire or component lead is to be dressed through the slot and wrapped to either post of the terminal. The wire or lead is to be wrapped to the terminal post a minimum of 180 degrees and a maximum of 270 degrees (1/2 to 3/4 turn). The wire or lead is to be wrapped on the terminal post to assure positive contact of the wire with at least two corners of the post. The wire or lead must also be in firm contact with the base of the terminal or the previously installed wire.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 76

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.2.13 The number of attachments is to be limited to three per terminal post and is to be maintained such that: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ There shall be no overlapping of wraps and wires. Spacing between wires, and spacing between the wires and the terminal board or panel is a minimum consistent with the thickness of the wire insulation. The wraps are dressed in alternate directions. Apply the tinned iron tip to the connection at a point near the midpoint of the mechanical wrap, and heat to the flow temperature of the solder. Feed a sufficient amount of solder to form a heat bridge to the other side of the connection. First remove the solder source, then the iron.

C5.2.14 The soldering procedure for pierced or perforated terminals is to be the following: Tin the conductor of the wire with solder. For wiring to a single terminal, the wire is to pass through the eye and be wrapped around the terminal between 180 to 270 degrees (1/2 to 3/4 turn). ˇ If wires shall be attached to a group of terminals such as on transformers, certain relays, and rotary switches, the wires must be neatly arranged around the terminals in such a manner that they do not cross one another. ˇ Apply the tinned iron tip to the connection at a point near the midpoint of the mechanical wrap, and heat to the flow temperature of the solder. ˇ Feed a sufficient amount of solder to form a heat bridge to the other side of the connection. ˇ First remove the solder source, then the iron. ˇ There is to be no burned insulation. The maximum length of exposed conductor must be 1/16 inch (2 mm) when soldering to any pin or lug. C5.3 Coaxial Connections C5.3.1 Coaxial cable shall not be spliced. This includes inline splices, barrel connectors, etc. Damaged cables or cables not of sufficient length shall be replaced. C5.3.2 Only approved coaxial cable and connectors shall be used. ˇ ˇ

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 77

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.3.3 Only approved coaxial cable connector crimping tools with registered dies shall be used. C5.3.4 Coax crimps shall be embossed with the vendor ID. C5.3.5 Pin height and continuity (for open and shorts) shall be verified on every installed coaxial connector. C5.3.6 There shall be no cracks or evidence of double crimps on the outer sleeve. C5.3.7 Crimps shall not extend onto the tang area. C5.3.8 The crimped outer sleeve shall exhibit six flat surfaces with no fins or excessive rounding at the 60-degree corner bends. C5.3.9 The Instalation Team shall ensure that all coaxial connectors are locked. C5.3.10 Connector must be the proper size and type for the cable. C5.3.11 Ferrules shall be crimped using the manufacturer's recommended tool as specified by the installation plan. C5.3.12 The ferrules shall be butted against the BNC connector body. Only one crimp is to be made. C5.3.13 The crimp must be hexagonal with no burrs, flanges or excessive rounding of the corners. C5.3.14 The coax-braided shield may not extend beyond the point where the ferrule and connector body meet. C5.3.15 The outer jacket of the coax cable must be under the ferrule. C5.3.16 Crimped center pins on BNC connectors shall be done using only the manufacturer's recommended tools as specified by the installation plan. The center pin is to be soldered to a solid center conductor. C5.3.17 Miniature coaxial/twinax cable is to be routed and supported to eliminate any strain on the terminated end of the miniature coaxial cable. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 78

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C5.3.18 The connector is to be of the proper size and type for the cable. It is to be assembled properly, using the proper tool(s). The strain relief (nut or ferrule) is to engage with the cable sheath. C5.4 Shield Connection

C5.4.1 The shields of shielded cables shall be cut, positioned and bonded to ground as specified in the job documentation. C5.4.2 Shielded cable and wire shall have the shield ground bonded at one end only. This bonding shall be at the equipment (originating) end unless the product design specifies otherwise. Exposed shields of shielded cable shall be protected with two half-lapped layers of electrical tape or heat shrinkable sleeving. C5.4.3 On shielded switchboard cable, the drain lead shall be protected by applying sleeving material. C5.5 Quick-Connect

C5.5.1 Only one wire shall be engaged in each terminal. C5.5.2 Only solder sleeve type splicing connectors shall be used for splicing individual leads. C5.5.3 Conductors shall not be placed on deformed terminals. C5.5.4 Previously terminated wire ends shall not be reterminated. Cut them off and use new ends. C5.5.5 Wire ends shall protrude 1/16 inch beyond edge of clipped terminal. C5.5.6 Wire ends shall clear adjacent metallic parts by 1/32 of an inch minimum. C5.5.7 Textile-insulated wire shall not be terminated in slotted beam terminals. Wire Wrapping C5.6.1 Wire wraps shall be made using the tool sized to the wire gauge. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 79

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C5.6.2 On terminals that are not square, #22-gauge wire shall have a minimum of five wraps and a maximum of seven wraps. C5.6.3 Overlapped turns are not to be counted in the number of turns of a connection. C5.6.4 Wire of gauges #28, 30 or 32 shall have one wrap of insulation in addition to the required number of wraps. C5.6.5 All connections not meeting the requirements shall be reskinned and reconnected. C5.6.6 Installation Team shall not solder #26 through #32-gauge wire. C5.6.7 Exposed un-insulated wire (shiner) shall not exceed 1/8 inch. C5.6.8 Clearance between connections and adjacent metalwork shall be 1/32 of an inch minimum. The wire end projection shall not violate the minimum clearance. C5.6.9 Clearances between adjacent connections shall be 1/64 of an inch minimum. The wire end projection shall not violate the minimum clearance. Wire wrap terminals on blocks, backplanes, etc. shall be straight and not bent. C5.6.10 Cable may be spliced using modular splicing apparatus. These splices shall be done in accordance with the manufacturer's specification. The Engineer will approve any use of these connectors. C5.6.11 The index strip shall have two wires in each slot. C5.6.12 Both halves of the connector body shall be fully latched. If not self-latching, or fitted with locking screws or securing clips, the two halves shall be secured on each end with 9-ply polyester twine, except when they need to remain readily available for rapid opening (e.g., for dial-to-dial conversion activity). C5.6.13 The cap shall be fully latched to the connector body and index strip.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 80

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.6.14 When connectors are placed on cable racks or pressed into adjacent cables they shall be covered with heat shrink tubing. C5.6.15 Cables fitted with connectors, but not connected, shall be secured with waxed fiber cord so that the cables shall not protrude into the wiring aisle behind the bay. C5.4 RJ-45 Connections

C5.7.1 Use the proper connector. Use CAT-5 connectors with CAT5 cable. Use CAT-6 connectors with CAT-6 cable. C5.7.2 When removing outer cable sheath do not nick individual wire sheaths. C5.7.3 Remove enough outer sheath to allow for easy manipulation of individual wires, normally 2" is more than adequate. C5.7.4 When dealing with CAT-6 cable, once the outer sheath has been removed, push the four pairs of wire toward the outer sheath to expose as much of the inner separation core as possible. CAT-5 cable does not have this inner core. C5.7.5 Cut the inner core as close as possible. C5.7.6 Separate the wire pairs and straighten out the twists. This shall allow easier manipulation of the wires. C5.7.7 Fan the wires out to the correct termination configuration. Press the wires between your thumb and first finger and wiggle the wire ends back and forth lightly to set the configuration. C5.7.8 Cut the excess wire length so that all connector wires are flush. If not all wires are flush when inserted into connector, there is a good chance the finished connector shall fail in testing. C5.7.9 When cable is inserted into RJ45 connector, there shall be between 1/4" and 5/16" of sheath inside connector. When connector is properly crimped, the sheath keeps the cable from moving around inside the connector. Cables that can move in the connector can cause cable failures, and shall not be used.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 81

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.7.10 All Ethernet cables shall be tested with approved Ethernet cable tester.

CAT-5 CAT-6 Figure C5.7.1

Cable with sheath Figure C5.7.2

Sheath inside RJ45 connector Figure C5.7.3

C5.8

BNC Connections

C5.8.1 Always use the correct connector for the cable that is to be installed. C5.8.2 Use correct tools to correctly prepare cable and terminate connectors. C5.8.3 Carefully remove outer cable protection sheath on multibundled cables, i.e. 6-pak, 12-pak, 24-pak, etc. Avoid cutting or nicking individual wire sheaths. C5.8.4 If nicking or cutting individual wire sheaths occur, Installation Team shall cut the entire bundle flush and start over. C5.8.5 Strip back outer sheath to a length that allows individual wires to easily flex into their termination point. An average for most installations is approximately 18" to 24". C5.8.6 Carefully trim off the outer sheath. Installation Team shall use either electrical tape or heat shrink over the outer sheath/individual wire bundle to provide a clean look. In this case clear heat shrink is not a requirement. C5.8.7 During the cable termination process, avoid wire bunching. This is caused when wires are not pre-measured and as DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 82

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
wires get terminated to closer connections, the excess wire starts bunching towards the opposite end of the cable. This makes dressing in the cables difficult and normally leaves a messy finished look. C5.8.8 Before stripping wires, take a few spare wires and use the sheath stripper on them to verify sheath stripper is making the proper depth cuts. C5.5 D SUB plugs, contacts connectors and housings (db-xx) D

C5.9.1 This section shall cover D SUB crimp type connections. SUB solder-type connections shall not be covered in this document at this time. C5.9.2 D SUB plug and socket contacts shall be barrel type crimp.

C5.9.3 D SUB contacts shall be US government approved under MILSPEC (Military Specification) requirements. Sockets and contacts that meet this requirement, AMP 205089, AMP 205090. C5.9.4 Crimping tool shall be ratchet type that must complete a full crimp ratchet before it releases. C5.9.5 Crimping tool shall complete a minimum 4-point crimp to a maximum 8-point crimp. C5.9.6 D SUB shells shall have metal plating and match the D SUB contacts for proper connectivity. C5.9.7 Connector covers shall be metal and meet US Government MIL-SPEC requirements. C5.9.8 Plastic D SUB connectors and covers, conversion connectors, etc. shall not be used on any cable. C5.9.9 Cables supplied by equipment manufacturers specifically made for the operation of their equipment are exempt at this time. C5.9.10 Adequate strain relief protection on cable exiting cover shall be used to minimize cable movement within the connector, which can cause cable failure.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 82

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
D SUB Connector Plug and Socket Installation C5.9.11 Under normal circumstances, Category 5 or 5E cable should be sufficient for most installations. C5.9.12 Install the correct size strain relief sleeve over the cable. C5.9.13 Remove approximately 1 ˝" of outer cable protection sheath. Avoid cutting or nicking individual wire sheaths. C5.9.14 Separate the color wire pairs. This shall make it easier to apply the D SUB plug and socket pins. C5.9.15 Strip approximately 1/16" to 1/8" from the end of each of the individual wire sheaths. Even though the crimping tool should break the sheath and make the wire-to pin connection when crimped, experience has taught us that this extra step greatly reduces connector fail rates. C5.9.16 Slide the D SUB plug (male pin) or socket (female pin) over the wire and push pin against wire as far as possible. Previously stripped wire end should end up in the pin part of the connector. C5.9.17 Slide the pin/wire into the crimp tool making sure the wire is fully seated into the pin. C5.9.18 Complete one ratchet crimp movement. Once ratchet full disengages, remove pin/wire from crimper and visually inspect crimp integrity. C5.9.19 Firmly hold on to the pin and moderately tug on the wire to verify connection is sound. C5.9.20 Once all D SUB plug or socket pins are crimped, installing into the connector can begin. C5.9.21 All D SUB connector pin inserts are numbered from 1 to XX, depending on the connector size. Follow whatever wiring pin out requirement based on the equipment termination requirement.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 83

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.9.22 Instalation Team should always use a pin insertion/extraction tool to insert or remove pins from connector. The insertion part of the tool prevents the wire from collapsing into to pin connector when it is pushed into the connector. The extraction part of the tool releases the connector pin from the connector without damaging the wire or connector pin. C5.9.23 Place the insertion tool over the connector pin sleeve and insert the connector pin with tool into the connector pin hole and push until there is a click. This means the connector pin is properly seated in the connector. Hold the connector and tug on the wire to verify connector is actually seated. C5.9.24 Place one half of the connector cover on the connector, slide the strain relief sleeve into place on the connector cover and manage the wires in the cover so there is no pinching or crimping of wires. C5.9.25 Place the other half of the cover on the connector and install securing hardware.

Sheath Removed Figure C5.9.1

Wires Separated Figure C5.9.2

Wires Stripped Figure C5.9.3

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 84

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Wires inserted into connector pins and properly crimped Figure C5.9.4

db9 connector Figure C5.9.5

Connector Pins Properly Seated Figure C5.9.6

Wires Managed in Connector Figure C5.9.7

Completed in Cover Figure C5.9.8

Pin 1

Pin 1

Pin 9

Pin 9

Male Connector Figure C5.9.9

Female Connector Figure C5.9.10

C5.6 Compression Connections General -(#10 AWG 5.3mm2 and Smaller) DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 85

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.10.1 All crimps or compression connections using the various types of commercial connectors shall be properly made with the number of crimps being determined by the supplying manufacturer's requirements pertaining to wire gauge, type of lug, and the crimp or compression tool used.

C5.10.2 Only connectors and splices with an electrical rating that exceeds the predicted current and voltage of a termination may be used. C5.10.3 Connectors shall be made of tin-plated copper with an insulated barrel, unless otherwise specified by the installation plan. C5.10.4 Wires shall be inserted so that they extend 1/16 inch (2 mm) past the barrel of the lug. C5.10.5 Space between wire insulation and the body of solderless connectors and power lugs shall be kept to a maximum of 1/16 inch (2 mm). Solid wire must not be nicked. Stranded wire may not have any strands cut off. C5.10.6 Crimps may not extend onto the tang area. C5.10.7 The number and sequence of crimps must be appropriate for the connector used. C5.10.8 The connector must agree with the wire size as follows for #10-22 AWG (5.27 - 0.63 mm2): Red Terminal Blue Terminal Yellow Terminal #22 - #18 AWG (0.63 - 0.82 mm2) #16 - #14 AWG (1.31 - 2.08 mm2) #12 - #10 AWG (3.31 - 5.27 mm2)

Terminal Color Code Versus Wire Gauge Table C5.10.1 C5.10.9Lugs shall be crimped with the proper tool in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions or recommendations. C5.11 Solderless Wrapped Connections DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 86

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C5.11.1 All connections not meeting the requirements of this section shall be soldered. C5.11.2 When one connection on a terminal is soldered then all connections on that terminal shall be soldered. C5.11.3 There shall be no separations between turns of wire on the terminal. Wraps must begin at the bottom of the terminal. C5.11.4 Insulation shall be within 1/32 inch (1 mm) of the terminal, or a modified wrap. C5.11.5 20-24 AWG wires are to have minimum of five nonoverlapping turns. C5.11.6 26-AWG wires are to have a minimum of seven nonoverlapping turns. C5.11.7 28 & 30 AWG (0.08 - 0.05 mm2) wires are to have a minimum of seven non-overlapping turns plus a full turn of insulation. C5.11.8 The size of the wire may not exceed the capabilities of the terminals. C5.11.9 There shall not be wire-end projections. C5.11.10 No turns of any connection are to overlap the turns of any existing connection on the same terminal. There shall be no gap between multiple connections on the same terminal. C5.11.11 The end of a wire is not to be over-wrapped. C5.11.12 All wraps shall be made in the clockwise direction. C5.7 Optical Fiber Connectors C5.12.1 All connectors, adapters, and cable assemblies shall comply with the Interconnect SID and the Cable Run List of the installation plan. C5.12.2 The telecommunications outlet box shall be capable of housing two terminated optical fibers as a minimum, and provide for a minimum fiber bend radius of 25mm (1 in). C5.12.3 Two fibers' positions in the same connector assembly are referred to as POSITION A and POSITION B. A fiber connector DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 87

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
adapter performs a pair-wise crossover between connectors. Labeling may be either field or factory installed.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 88

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 89

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6. Drawings C6.1 CHAPTER 6. Equipment Designations, Labeling and

General Requirements

C6.1.1 It is the installer's responsibility to apply all equipment designations IAW the Defense Information Systems Network's Managed Element Naming Convention. C6.1.2 The top front of an equipment rack is to be labeled with the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ The rack number and row number where the equipment cabinet is installed. The sequential number of the rack in respect to the adjacent equipment cabinets. The number of the circuit breaker and its breaker panel that the frame's power cable is terminated to must be clearly labeled on the front and rear side of the frame. Lettering shall be ž inch (19 mm) in size.

ˇ

C6.1.3 Labeling machines may be used in place of rubber stamps and ink, as long as the proper character size and color are adhered to. C6.2 Character Colors

C6.2.1 Black lettering on white background or individual white lettering are required on racks and cabinets. C6.2.2 Caution notices shall be in white or black on a red background. C6.2.3 Fuse ratings shall be in black on a yellow background. C6.2.4 Outlets that supply AC power shall be designated with the voltage and applicable circuit breaker designator in black on a white background on the front or side of the outlet.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 90

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.3 Equipment and Frame Labeling Requirements

C6.3.1 The purpose of this section is to provide a detailed, comprehensive and easy to follow instruction guide regarding standard labeling procedures for all technologies. This section will cover: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Label Size Label Type Label Color Ink Colors Label Information

C6.3.2 Additional labeling can be added to other equipment such as Ciena Transceiver and MUX/DEMUX shelves or adding a label that identifies the link that the Ciena gear is transporting C6.3.3 It has been determined that the best devices to use to generate and print labels are the Brady TLS series thermal labelers and the Brother P-Touch series labels that can hold 3/4" labels. C6.3.4 The standard Brady label is part number PTL-64-427 C6.3.5 The standard Brother P-Touch labels are all 3/4 " white back with either, Black, Red or Blue lettering, depending on application. C6.3.6 Labels at equipment ends shall be located as close to the connector end as possible without interfering with equipment or cable functionality. C6.3.7 Labels at the FDP (rear) shall be placed a minimum of 4 inches from connector so that labels are easier to read. C6.3.8 Labels at FDP (front) should be placed as close to the connector as possible. If possible, avoid placing label outside of the FDP. C6.3.9 Labels for Cat-X, DS-X cables should be placed within 4 inches of the connector. C6.3.10 Labels designating racks, cabinets, etc shall be P-Touch 3/4", white backing with bold black letters all capital.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 91

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.3.11 When using rack units (RU), the Installation Team shall identify all rack units the equipment occupies and/or needs. C6.3.12 Example ­ A standard ADC 96 position FDP takes up 5RU so the label would include all RU's on the label ­ RU 20-24. C6.3.13 Example ­ A standard KG 175A takes up 1RU. However, it also requires a 1RU spacing above and below for air flow. Using this parameter, and the assumption that the actual unit is installed at RU 30, the label would read RU 29-31. C6.4 Rack and Cabinet Labeling Requirements C6.4.1 Label the FDP front and back within the rack, with the position location Example - SH 01, 02, 03, etc... RU 30-34, 25-29, etc

FDP Labeling Example Figure C6.4.1

Equipment in Shelf Figure C6.4.2

C6.5 ........Fiber Optic Labeling Requirements C6.5.1 These parameters shall be used on any fiber that connects to any DISA installed equipment unless otherwise described within this document. C6.5.2 Ciena OTN inner-bay fibers will not be required to have labels on both ends of each fiber. These blue or purple fibers connect different cards to each other within the node. The Installation Team should consider labeling these connections as time allows since it aids in initial troubleshooting and provides easy identification during future maintenances.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 92

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.5.3 Labels shall meet the specifications listed in this paragraph. Label shall be 1" x 2 5/8" up to a maximum of 1" x 3 1/2" and meet the below parameters. Labels outside of these parameters must be approved by DISA NS6 on a case-by-case basis. ˇ ˇ ˇ The type of label will be thermal vinyl The color of label will be opaque white or white. The color ink will be black and the text size will allow for up to seven lines of text using the same font size.

C6.5.4 The information on one side of each label shall consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Technology Identifier (10 digit DISA equipment identifier) Brief technology description (Cisco MSPP, Ciena OTS, Sycamore ODXC, etc) Rely Rack/Cabinet identifier (RR 1101, RR FPI-100, CAB DISA 1, etc) Shelf number ­ (On all brand new installations, no DISA equipment in location) rack units shall be used to identify equipment location within rack, cabinet, etc. Equipment that is being installed at existing locations the Installation Team can use current identification pattern (SH01, SH 01, etc) Slot number (If applicable Port number and transport identifier (TX/RX) (3TX/3RX), etc Connection ­ Front/Rear

ˇ ˇ ˇ

C6.5.5 The information on the reverse side of each label shall consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Termination Point (FDP) Relay Rack the FDP is located ­ RR 1101 Location FDP is within relay rack in RU's Termination port on the FDP ­ PORT 1 TX/RX identifier Location/side the fiber was terminated FRONT/REAR FDP to FDP Labeling

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 93

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.5.6 The information below shall be included on both sides of each label shall consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ CCSD (4 digit DISA circuit identifier) Brief description (FDP) Relay Rack/Cabinet identifier (RR 1101, RR FPI-100, CAB DISA 1, etc) Shelf number ­ (On all brand new installations, no DISA equipment in location) rack units shall be used to identify equipment location within rack, cabinet, etc (RU 25-29). Equipment that is being installed at existing locations the Installation Team can use current identification pattern (SH01, SH 01, etc) Port number of the FDP TX/RX FRONT/REAR

ˇ ˇ ˇ

C6.5.7 Fiber Distribution Panel (FDP) Labeling C6.5.7.1 All FDP's shall be labeled to identify their position within the relay rack/cabinet, the equipment connected to its ports and the CCSD/Circuit ID if applicable. C6.5.7.2 Most of the FDP's that DISA uses are position panels. In circumstances when a FDP requires a modified labeling format, approval from DISA NS6 on a case-by-case basis through ADC 24, 48 or 96 installation shall be obtained DISA NS6.

C6.5.7.3 The labels to be used shall meet the following general specifications: C.6.5.7.3.1 Adhesive labels with widths of 2 cm +/- 0.5 cm; C.6.5.7.3.2 Labels fabricated from a white durable, heat resistant laminated vinyl or similar material; C.6.5.7.3.3 Adhesive is waterproof, heat resistant and its adhesion immune to breakdown by most general-purpose solvents; C.6.5.7.3.4 Label lettering is black in color on a white background, waterproof, and immune to discoloring and fading by most general purpose solvents; C.6.5.7.3.5 The font and pitch of the lettering is easy to read and all CAP'S. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 94

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C.6.5.7.3.6 Follow site-specific requirements as needed. C6.5.8 FDP Port Cards C6.5.8.1 Follow the following steps/format to label the FDP port cards C6.5.8.2 Open the front of the FDP cover, leave labeling card in the same position as when the cover is closed. This is the side that the equipment fibers will be identified. Either the PTouch labeler or the Brady TLS can be used to complete the labeling C6.5.8.3 Labels will consist of three lines maximum per port Example: UMSWXXX010 RR110 2-14 SL13-P 10 TX C6.5.8.4 Open the cover card to reveal the reverse side. This is where the CCSD/CKT ID will be labeled. Use P-Touch labeler at 4mm height for these labels and label each port associated with circuit. Example 1234 FDP Information Cover Labeling Examples

FDP label facing fiber connections when door is closed Figure C6.5.8.1

FDP CCSD label facing out when door is closed Figure C6.5.8.2

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 95

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Fiber Optic Labeling Examples

Figure C6.5.8.3 C6.1 DS-X-Cat-X Labeling

C6.6.1 All DS3 and CAT-X cables shall have identification labels on both ends of each cable. C6.6.2 The size of label shall be 1" x 2 5/8" up to a maximum of 1" x 3 1/2". Labels outside of these parameters must be approved by DISA NS6 on a case-by-case basis.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 96

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.6.3 Label type thermal vinyl. C6.6.4 Label color opaque white or white. C6.6.5 Ink color black and the text size will allow for up to seven lines of text using the same font size. C6.6.6 The to/from information on each label will consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Technology descriptions Rack numbers Shelf numbers/RU numbers Slot number Port number and transport identifier (TX/RX-IN/OUT) Connection ­ FRONT/REAR

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 97

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DS3/CAT-X Labeling Examples

Figure C6.6.1

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 98

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Correctly labeled Sycamore SN9K DS3 cables Figure C6.6.2 C6.2 AC Power (110VAC equipment power strip in rack/cabinet, etc to receptacle to AC breaker panel) C6.7.1 All power cables shall have labels on both ends of each cable. C6.7.2 Gray 145P Tags shall be used on all AC power cables C6.7.3 The labels applied to the 145P Tags shall have a white or white opaque background and black lettering. C6.7.4 Font size will allow for a maximum of seven lines. However, if fewer lines of information are required, a larger font should be utilized. C6.7.5 All points where the AC power connection can be interrupted shall be labeled. C6.7.6 The information on each label will consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Equipment Identifier Equipment Type Rack Shelf Voltage

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 99

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

AC Power Labeling Examples

AC Power Strip to Equipment to AC Power Strip AC Breaker Panel via an AC Receptacle. Figure C6.7.1 Figure C6.7.2 C6.3 Equipment Rack/Cabinet with AC power

C6.8.1 All Racks and cabinets that have DISA equipment installed and is fed by AC power, must list the AC breaker panel, breaker number and breaker size on the front and rear of the rack/cabinet and must be visible if the cabinet has doors, when these doors are closed. Labels shall be placed no higher than six feet. C6.8.2 The labels shall meet the following general specifications: C6.8.2.1 Adhesive labels with widths of 2 cm +/- 0.5 cm; C6.8.2.2 Labels are fabricated from a white durable, heat resistant laminated vinyl or similar material; C6.8.2.3 Adhesive is waterproof, heat resistant and its adhesion immune to breakdown by most general purpose solvents; C6.8.2.4 Label lettering is black in color on white background, waterproof, and immune to discoloring and fading by most general purpose solvents. C.6.8.2.5 The font and pitch of the lettering is easy to read and all CAP's. C6.9 DC Power Cable Labeling Requirements

C6.9.1 All electrical cables shall have labels on both ends of each cable. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 100

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C6.9.2 145P-Tags shall be used to attach identification labels to all DC power cables. C6.9.3 9-ply nylon lacing cord shall be used to secure 145P-Tags to all DC power cables. C6.9.4 145P-Tags, secured by 9-ply lacing cord shall be attached to all DC power cables no more than 2 inches away from the terminating end of the cable lug heat shrink or protection sleeve. C6.9.5 Labels specified in paragraph C6.8.2 shall be used . C6.9.6 The identifying label colors for DC power shall be: ˇ ˇ A loads and returns B loads and returns ink with White back Blue is not readily ­ Red ink on White back ­ Blue ink on White back. Black can be substituted for Blue if available

C6.9.7 The text size shall allow for up to four lines using the same font size. C6.1 DC Power Distribution Bay (DC Rectifier) to Fuse Alarm Panel (FAP) C6.10.1 The information one side of each label shall consist of the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Description (DC RECT) Rack number Breaker Number and Amp Load designation and Voltage

C6.10.2 The information on the opposite side of each label shall consist of the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Designation (FAP) Rack number Position (A1, A BATT, -48VDC, etc) Load designation and Voltage

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 101

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DC RECT RR 1099 BRKR 2 60A A LOAD ­48VDC

DC RECT RR 1099 RTN BUS A LOAD

DC RECT RR 1099 BRKR 2 60A B LOAD ­48VDC

DC RECT RR 1099 RTN BUS B LOAD

FAP RR 1103 RU42 A1 BATT A LOAD­48VDC

FAP 1103 RR 1103 RU42 A1 RTN A LOAD

FAP RR 1103 RU42 A1 BATT B LOAD­48VDC

FAP 1103 RR 1103 RU42 A1 RTN B LOAD

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 1 BATT A ­48VDC

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 1 RTN A SIDE RTN

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 BRKR 2 60A B SIDE ­48VDC

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 RTN BUS B SIDE RTN

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 30A A SIDE ­48VDC

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 A SIDE RTN

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 30A B SIDE ­48VDC

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 B SIDE RTN

Figure C6.10.1

C6.11 DC Rectifier and Fuse Alarm Panel (FAP) information cards/covers labeling C6.11.1 The information on these types of identifiers will require additional care to complete accurately. C6.11.2 TELECT and ADC FAP's each have different style information cards and require different font size manipulation based on the type of labeler used to allow required information to properly fit within the space allowed.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 102

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FAP Information Card Figure C6.11.1 C6.11.3 For Emerson and Eaton DC Rectifiers the standard P-Touch 4-line information label fits within their allotted space on the information covers. ˇ ˇ A Loads labeling shall be Red letters/numbers on a White back. B Load labeling shall be Blue letters/numbers on a White back.

C6.2 Relay Rack/Cabinet Labeling C6.12.1 All 2-post and 4-post relay racks and cabinets will be labeled front, back, top and bottom. C6.12.2 Labels will be centered on the outside of each rack/cabinet and easily visible. C6.12.3 The labels to be used are P-Touch (TZ-241). labels have black characters on a white background. These

C6.12.4 The labels are 3/4" in width. Standard text, auto size, bold font and all CAP's is the standard format. Follow sitespecific requirements as needed. C6.12.5 A few examples are listed below. Examples RR 301 CABINET 301 RR FPI-3404 C6.3 Timing Labeling C6.13.1 When labeling timing equipment, it is important to label ALL of the different cables. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 103

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.13.2 These cables include, but are not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ Cables coming from equipment, i.e. MSPP, Ciena, Sycamore, etc. Cables running from Cesium clock to SSU-2000 AC and DC power cables

C6.13.3 The size label shall be 1" x 2 5/8" up to a maximum of 1" x 3 1/2". C6.13.4 Labels outside of these parameters must be approved by DISA NS6 on a case-by-case basis. C6.13.5 Labels that fit this parameter are Brady ­ PTL-64-427 C6.13.6 Label type shall be thermal vinyl. C6.13.7 Label color shall be opaque white or white. C6.13.8 Ink color shall be black and the text size will allow for up to seven lines of text using the same font size. C6.13.9 The information on each label will consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Technology description Rack numbers ­ From and to locations. Shelf/RU number ­ From and to Positions/Group location Termination Type FRONT/REAR

C6.13.10 In some cases the label size may need to be adapted to fit that particular piece of equipment. This is acceptable as long as the format stays the same. C6.13.11 Additional labeling can be added to other equipment such as Ciena Transceiver and MUX/DEMUX shelves or adding a label that identifies the link that the Ciena gear is transporting. For Example: ˇ ˇ ˇ DS1/DS3 Panels Tie Cables and Tie Fibers Ladder Rack and Fiber Trough DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 104

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C6.13.12 Newly installed ladder racks and fiber troughs shall be labeled at approximately 10 foot intervals on both sides. C6.13.13 All crossovers shall be labeled on both sides. C6.13.14 Two-tier ladder rack installations shall have dedicated racks for fused power cables and signal cables. C6.13.15 Vertical fiber trough shall be labeled on the front cover using the vertical print feature on the P-Touch labeler C6.13.16 The labels to be used are P-Touch (TZ-241). C6.13.17 These labels have black characters on a white background. C6.13.18 The labels are 3/4" width. Standard text, auto size, bold font and all CAP's is the standard format. Follow site specific requirements as needed.

Examples Fused Cables Only Signal Cables Only Fiber Optic Cables Only C6.4 Marked Drawing Requirements (REDLINES) C6.14.1 This section covers the requirements for correcting and updating installation documents and drawings. C6.14.2 The Installation Team shall ensure all work is completed in accordance with the detailed specifications or obtain approval from DISA NS6 if changes to the detailed specifications are required. C6.14.3 All installations, removals or assignment changes shall be marked on office base drawings, if applicable, and by electronic application (i.e., AutoCAD, VISIO, etc.). C6.14.4 The Installation Team shall compare the documents with the equipment layout and scope of work and make corrections as

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 105

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
necessary so the "final" document package reflects the actual installation. C6.14.5 When a document or drawing is marked or corrected, there are associated documents that also require changes. the Installation Team shall correct all affected documents. C6.14.6 When corrections are required to the installation documents, the changes shall be legible and marked in color. Changes shall be made as detailed below: ˇ ˇ ˇ Red ­ Additions or changes shall be marked or highlighted in red. Yellow - Removals shall be marked or highlighted in yellow. Green or Blue - New information concerning existing equipment shall be marked or highlighted in green. This indicates a "Record Only" change.

C6.14.7 The Installation Team shall leave one copy of the redlined document package on-site and/or provide an electronic copy to the site POC. This copy is for "informational use only" and will not take the place of the "Final" document provided to the Customer. C6.14.8 When changes to the installation documents are required, the affected area shall be outlined in the appropriate color. It is not necessary to color the entire area. For example, an area outlined in red indicates that everything in that area has been added. However, everything possible shall be done to clarify the correction. Small areas (e.g., units mounted in a relay rack, added fuse, etc.) may be completely shaded; bay or circuit numbers may be colored over. C6.14.9 When a small area is outlined, it requires straight lines that define the affected area of equipment; a loose circle that covers part of the adjacent equipment shall not be used. However, large isolated areas may be circled, for example, if a complete bay or frame is being removed from a front equipment drawing, a circle may be used. The whole idea is to mark the drawing so the draftsperson can accurately update the drawings. C6.15 Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Additions

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 106

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.15.1 Where there is enough space to legibly enter the information, the Installation Team shall: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Outline the exact area in red. Enter the information. Include locating dimensions. Use symbols to indicate bay sizes.

C6.15.2 Where there is not enough space on the drawing to legibly enter the information, the Installation Team shall: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Select a nearby vacant area. Draw an enlarged outline of the area. Circle the outlined area and draw a line to the intended location on the drawing. Enter the new information in the outlined area. Position the information exactly.

C6.15.3 Additions (red) and information (green) shall not be drawn on top of removals or changes (yellow). C6.15.4 C6.16 Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Removals C6.16.1 When equipment is removed, the affected area shall be outlined or highlighted in yellow. C6.17 Parameters for Drawing Changes ­ Changes C6.17.1 When equipment is to be replaced, the removal location shall be outlined or highlighted in yellow. C6.17.2 The Installation Team shall add the changes (new information and additions) using the rules detailed above for additions. Do not add the new equipment (red) over the removed (yellow) area. C6.18 Floor Plan Drawing C6.18.1 the Installation Team shall show the following information on all updated floor plans: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Bay number (inside bay symbol) Bay name on front side of equipment Bay size (length and width) Clearance between adjacent bays DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 107

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ˇ Distance between bay and columns ˇ End guards ˇ Aisle number ˇ Width of aisle (front & rear) C6.19 Cable, Cable Rack & Auxiliary Frame Plan Drawing C6.19.1 The Installation Team shall show the following information: ˇ Size of cable rack ˇ Distance from floor ˇ Type cable rack (pans, ladders, horned, power, etc.) ˇ Location/layout ˇ Auxiliary framing bars ˇ Pipe stanchions C6.20 Relay Rack Front Equipment Drawing C6.20.1 The Installation Team shall show the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ Bay sketch with reference to the height and width of the bay, size of mounting plates and supplier (Cisco, Ciena, Newton, B-Line, etc.) Supplier equipment name or designation Bay number

C6.20.1 When making changes to written installation documents, the Installation Team shall use the strikethrough feature on the information that is changing and then add next to, below, etc the new information. This will allow easy review of the changes that were made. C6.20.2 The same coloring scheme used on drawings applies to written documents.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 108

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 109

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7. C7.1 CHAPTER 7. AC and DC POWER

General Requirements

C7.1.1 Fiber paper, U-shaped fiber insulators, plastic grommet, sheathing, or other suitable materials shall be used to protect wire and cable that is being distributed off cable racks. The insulator or paper is to be secured in place with cable ties or other methods that ensure it remains in place. C7.1.2 Power wires shall be protected with fiber paper or acceptable plastic insulators where they pass through or come in contact with metal edged openings. C7.1.3 Fiber paper, U-shaped fiber insulators or plastic grommets are required around all metallic or other sharp edges of all cable paths. C7.1.4 Power cables shall be marked with their voltage and polarity near their termination points. Examples are: "-48 VDC" or "+48 VDC". C7.1.5 It is recommended when feasible, that the color of power cables used for distributing NEGATIVE DC voltage are BLACK and WHITE or RED and WHITE for the distribution of POSITIVE DC voltages. Large gauge cables 1/0 AWG or greater shall be marked with their respective voltage and polarity symbols at their ends. C7.1.6 Power racks and bays shall be installed plumb and level with the same allowable deviations listed in Table C7.1.1 of this standard. Frame Height 4' (137 7' (213 6" to 7' 0" cm to 213 cm) 0" to 9' 0" cm to 274 cm) 9' 0" (>274 cm) Maximum Allowable Deviation From Vertical Plumb 1/8" (3 mm) 3/16" (5 mm) 1/4" (6 mm)

Vertical Alignment of Power Racks and Bays Table 7.1.1

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 110

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7.1.7 DC power cables shall be run and secured on cable racks, power brackets, ducts, raceways, or conduits dedicated for their distribution. C7.1.8 AC and DC power cabling are not to be run on the same cable ladder or in the same duct. Maintain separation distances between AC power cables and twisted pair copper cables as specified in Table C7.1.2. Refer to NFPA 70, article 800 or applicable electrical codes for additional information. No separation distance is required when the data cables or the power cables are enclosed in a metallic raceway or conduit. Quality of Circuits or Number of Pairs 1-15 Electrical Circuit Type Minimum Separation Distance 50 mm (2 in) 100 mm (4 in) 150 mm (6 in) 300 mm (12 in) 300 mm (12 in) 300 mm (12 in) 100 mm (4 in) Power Cables

20A 110/240VAC 1-phase shielded or unshielded 16-30 20A 110/240VAC 1-phase shielded 31-60 20A 110/240VAC 1-phase shielded 61-90 20A 110/240VAC 1-phase shielded 91+ 20A 110/240VAC 1-phase shielded 1+ 100A 415VAC 3-phase shielded feeder All VDC Power Cables Separation between Twisted­Pair and Shielded Table C7.1.2

C7.1.9 Power cables leaving cable racks and entering frames, racks, and other equipment shall have a maximum unsupported distance of 2 feet for cables 1/0 (53.4 mm2) and smaller. C7.1.10 Power cables leaving cable racks and entering frames, racks, and other equipment shall have a maximum unsupported distance of 3 feet for cables 1/0 (53.4 mm2) and larger. C7.1.11 Power cables are not to be laid or run across the surface of a floor. C7.1.12 Power cabling and wiring are not to be run directly from one cabinet or rack to another, except for rectifier/power board DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 111

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
wiring. A minimum of two dedicated 120 V nominal, non-switch AC duplex electrical outlet receptacles, each on a separate branch circuit, shall be provided for equipment power. The receptacles should be rated at 20 Amps and should be connected to a 20-amp branch circuit, unless otherwise directed in the installation plans. C7.1.13 AC power service in equipment racks shall be designated with name, number, voltage and type of service, therefore as an example: PWR DISTG SERVICE CAB 001 208V AC 60 HZ 3PH 4W C7.1.14 All AC outlets and light switches shall be designated with the location of the power source and circuit breaker number or inverter frame location. C7.2 DC Power Connectors and Connections

C7.2.1 Compression connectors shall be used on all power connections when possible. Mechanical connectors are permitted. Soldered connections are a last resort. C7.2.2 All connectors shall be sized and rated for the size and type of wire they are applied to. C7.2.3 Compression connectors 1/0 AWG (53.4 mm2) and larger are have two (2) hole type lugs whenever possible. Single hole lugs may be used by exception only when connecting to a stud in a power bay, or when the equipment specification requires a single hole lug. Recommend using a pneumatic crimping tool when installing compression connectors on a wire 1/0 AWG (53.4 mm2) or larger. C7.2.4 Lugs require lock and flat washers made of electrically compatible materials. Holes must be the proper size for the bolt or stud securing the lug. C7.2.5 When multiple crimps are required, the first crimp is to be towards the tang area of the connector and is to crimp the wire end. C7.2.6 The proper wire, connector, crimping tool, and die shall be used as a system to complete an acceptable crimp. The lug must be properly crimped.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 112

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7.2.7 If the die generates comers or flashing, they must be thin and uniform. Excess flashing shall be removed and circular crimps shall be symmetrical. C7.2.8 Wires shall be fully inserted into the barrel of the connector. C7.2.9 A maximum length of 1/16"(2 mm) of exposed conductor between the cable insulation butt and the end of the lug is permissible. C7.2.10 Two-hole connectors are to have both holes used for fastening. C7.2.11 Lugs, punch-downs, or connectors designed to accommodate one lead are to have only one lead attached. C7.2.12 The Installation Team must verify that all manufacturer installed power connections are tight in accordance with the torque rating listed. C7.3 Bus Bars C7.3.1 Rack/cabinet bus bars shall be copper and be of a minimum dimension of 12 inches by 1 inch by 1/8 inch (3 mm), unless otherwise specified in the installation plan. C7.3.2 Any sharp edges or burrs shall be filed to insure good electrical contact and prevent personal injury. C7.3.3 Separations between bus bars of different potentials are not to be less than 3 inches (76 mm). C7.3.4 The separation between bus bars used for low frequency signal ground (up to 300 KHz) and cable rack, auxiliary framing, etc. are not to be less than one inch. C7.3.5 Insulators with metal inserts are to support the low frequency signal ground bus bars away from the rack or framing and provide a minimum of one mega-ohm resistance between the two conductors. Insulators shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, or as specified in the installation plan. C7.3.6 Equipment chassis or signal grounds shall be grounded to the respective bus bar with copper wire of 16 AWG or larger and DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 113

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
less than 3-feet in length or in accordance with the lengths listed in Table C7.3.1 or as directed by the installation plan. Cable Size(AWG) 8 10 12 14 16 Maximum Path Length 8ft (2.4 M) 5ft (1.5M) 3ft-2in (1.0M) 1ft-6in (0.5M) 10in (0.25M)

Maximum Length of Equipment Chassis Ground Cable Table C7.3.1 C7.3.7 Metal surfaces of equipment, frame and ground systems to be bonded in direct contact are to fall as close together in the galvanic series as possible. Compatible groupings of the common metals are given in Appendix B. The corrosive action between metals of different groups shall be greatest when the metallic union is openly exposed to salt spray, rain, or other liquids. The less exposed the bond, the less the rate of corrosion. C7.3.8 All connectors and bus bars shall be lightly cleaned with a mild abrasive prior to making connections. C7.3.9 All connections to bus bars shall be treated with a thin coat of anti-corrosion compound (e.g. NO-OX-ID-AŽ). C7.3.10 All connections to bus bars shall be made with 2 hole compression connectors or solder connectors of the proper size and type for the wire and threaded fastener. C7.3.11 All bolts, nuts, and washers used to fasten connectors to bus bars shall be silicon bronze or of electrochemically compatible metal such as brass or another copper alloy. Connections shall be adequately torqued. C7.3.12 Ground cables between the equipment and ground bus shall be terminated as indicated in following subparagraphs: C7.3.13 Termination of ground wire using a copper alloy (i.e. copper, brass, bronze) terminal lug onto an aluminum or steel chassis: Stainless steel flat washer or tooth lock-washer is placed between the terminal lug of the cable and equipment chassis. A stainless steel or copper alloy flat washer is placed on the opposite side of the connector followed by a stainless steel or copper alloy split-type lock washer. The DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 114

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
hardware is held in place by a stainless or copper alloy steel threaded fastener. Cover the connection with an anti-corrosive sealant if it is exposed to the weather or moisture. C7.3.14 Termination of ground wires on a copper bus: The connector shall be mounted directly onto the copper bus bar. A copper alloy or flat washer is then placed on the opposite side of the connector followed by a copper alloy lock washer. The hardware is held in place by a copper alloy threaded fastener. Finally, cover the connection with an anti-corrosive sealant if it is exposed to the weather or moisture. C7.3.15 Bond resistance between the ground wire connector and equipment chassis or ground bus is to be less than one milliohm. Resistance between equipment chassis or signal ground and the respective ground bus is to be less than five milli-ohms.

C7.4

Batteries and UPS

C7.4.1 Batteries shall be installed per the manufacturer's recommendations. Batteries are not required for a DISN Core facility if an existing UPS is used to feed the DC power plant, provided the UPS system has a four-hour battery backup capability. With fully redundant generators, the required UPS or DC power plant battery backup time is 5 minutes. C7.4.2 Battery banks with a capacity larger than 50 KVA shall be installed on open racks in battery rooms or areas that meet the criteria of MIL-HDBK-411B, TM5-684, Chapter 14, TM5-693, Section 4.1, IEEE-484, IEEE-485 and/or IEEE-1187. C7.4.3 It is permissible to install a battery bank with a capacity less than 50 KVA in cabinets and in the same room as the battery charger and inverter. C7.4.4 As a minimum, the room or area containing a battery bank is required to meet the safety and ventilation requirements of NFPA-70. Therefore, all rooms containing battery banks must provide sufficient ventilation to prevent the accumulation of hydrogen gas in the room's air. The ventilation equipment is to have the capacity to circulate the entire volume of the battery room or area air with fresh air from outside of the room at a rate of 2.5 times each hour. The objective of the room or ventilation is to keep the hydrogen concentration in the room air to less than 1 percent by volume. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 115

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7.4.5 The battery room's ambient temperature shall be maintained between 72°F and 82°F. The room shall have overtemperature and under-temperature alarms that are monitored remotely by duty personnel. C7.4.6 The designated battery room having batteries with liquid electrolyte shall have a floor drain with acid or alkaline proof piping leading to a collection tank located near the rack to permit the draining of spilled electrolyte, or a liquid tight fabricated basin underneath the battery bank. C7.4.7 The battery room's ambient temperature shall be maintained between 72°F and 82°F, the room shall have overtemperature and under-temperature alarms that are monitored remotely by duty personnel. C7.4.8 Battery cells shall be mounted only on a rack or group of racks specially constructed for this purpose. The racks shall be constructed of steel rails, frames, and braces. The battery cells are to rest on plastic channels and the rack is to be factory painted with an acid resistant paint. C7.4.9 The battery racks must be positioned and located in such a way as to allow access to the cells for periodic maintenance. C7.4.10 Per NEC insulation restrictions, battery strings are not to exceed 250 volts on any one rack. Ensure that sectionalizing protection is provided for each battery string. C7.4.11 Batteries having rubber jars shall be sectionalized into groups rated at 150 volts or less. C7.4.12 Battery racks, stands and cabinets shall be plumb and level. C7.4.13 Cells shall not be exposed to heating units, strip heaters, radiators, steam pipes, or sunlight. C7.4.14 Before installing cells onto a battery rack or into a battery cabinet, inspect cells for completeness of assembly, verification of nameplate, sizes and connection in accordance with applicable drawings. In addition, inspect for loose parts, leaks, damage, low electrolyte levels, intact vents sealed and plugs in place.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 116

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7.4.15 The battery bank charger and inverters shall be assembled, positioned and located in accordance with the applicable drawings. C7.4.16 All straps are to align with the terminals without force. Batteries shall be moved or shimmed as necessary for alignment and to maintain level and plumb. C7.4.17 All straps and connections shall be tightened to the manufacturer's recommended torque and treated with a thin coat of anti-corrosion compound. C7.4.18 All connections and straps shall be clean and free of corrosion. C7.4.19 All cells shall be free of cracks and other damage. C7.4.20 The positive and negative battery leads must be run in separate non-metallic conduits. The cables from the normal and the alternate AC sources shall also be run in separate conduits. C7.4.21 The battery charger installation, supports, grounding and wiring must be in accordance with the applicable drawings. C7.4.22 The battery charger rating nameplate shall directly correspond with all applicable parameters of the AC supply to the charger and the electrical ratings of the battery to which it is connected. Check the settings of the charger and calibrate per the manufacturer's manual to match the battery recommended float and equalizing voltage levels. If the battery charger has been factory set, check the charger float and equalizing voltage levels against drawings and specifications. If the battery charger has not been factory set, set the charger float and equalizing voltage levels to those listed on drawings and specifications. The design criteria for DISN Core DC power systems is a discharge rate to 1.84 Volts per cell at the 4-hour rate. 44.16 volts is the minimum voltage supplied to DISN Core equipment for satisfactory operation. The float voltage should equal approximately 2.15 times the number of cells in the system. C7.4.23 Before connecting to the battery, measure and record the output voltage provided by the charger. C7.4.24 Verify and record that all charger functions and alarms operate correctly. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 117

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C7.4.25 Measure the resistance and the quality of the cable insulation of all interconnecting cables between chargers, batteries and inverters in accordance with the following procedure: C7.4.26 Place the cable under test on a metal plate in a flat coil arrangement. Insulate the far-end of the cable with a plastic covering. Using a 6 AWG cable or a larger gauge, ground the plate to a known good grounding point. Connect one test lead of the mega-ohmmeter to the conductor of the cable. Connect the other test lead to the metallic plate. Ensure that a clock with a second hand is viewable from the test setup. Perform this test at temperatures ranging between 15°C and 25°C or approximately from 50°F to 80°F. Set the test voltage of the mega-ohmmeter to either 500 or 1000 VDC. C7.4.27 Vender shall ensure the proper High Voltage cable is utilized and meets the insulation resistance required for safe utilization in accordance with manufacturer specifications. C7.4.28 After assembly, torque terminal connections shall be in accordance with manufacturer specifications. Coat terminals with a protective coating of an anticorrosion compound. The compound is to completely seal the bond between the strap and the terminal, and the attaching hardware. There is to be no excessive compound on the straps, or globs of excess compound. C7.4.29 Verify when the battery is fully charged and record the time to charge. C7.4.30 After the battery is completely charged, measure and record the total voltage across the battery and between each adjacent cell. The total voltage should approximately be the resultant of the quantity of cells multiplied by the typical cell voltage. A variation is an indication that the battery bank may be improperly assembled. C7.4.31 Measure and record each cell's internal ohmic values and the inter-cell connection resistances. This is accomplished by either a battery impedance tester or by applying a load across the battery and measuring the step change in voltage and current for each cell taken between the positive and negative terminal posts of adjacent cells as well as the battery as a whole. The ohmic value is the change in voltage divided by the change in current. The resistance values for each cell should be averaged and any interconnection that varies no more than 10 percent from DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 118

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
the accumulated average resistance of all measured cells. Inspect wet and VRLA cells for cleanliness, corrosion, sulfurication and leakage. Pay particular attention to measuring those cells with visable corrosion or leakage. Record cell conductivities and voltages deviating more than 10 percent from the average value of the string cells measured. C7.4.32 Measure and record the following parameters of each cell: voltage in the float mode, specific gravity, negative terminal temperature and visually checked electrolyte level. C7.4.33 Measure and record total battery voltage with charger in float mode of operation, ac ripple current, overall float voltage at the battery terminals, charger output current and voltage, and the ambient temperature. C7.4.34 All cells shall be numbered and appropriate covers shall be in placed upon completion of installation. C7.4.35 Float voltage is to be maintained unless otherwise specified in writing by a DISA CONUS Engineer. C7.4.36 Initial battery cell readings shall be taken using battery report forms during installation. C7.4.37 A copy of the report is to be provided to DISA NS6. aditional copy is to be left in a protective binder and maintained with the battery bank throughout its life cycle. C7.5 Fuses and Circuit Breakers An

C7.5.1 All fuses and circuit breakers shall comply with the general requirements for overcurrent protection and overcurrent protective devices not more than 600 volts, specified in Article 240, Parts I through VII, of the National Electric Code. C7.5.2 Cartridge type fuses are to have the ferrules and blades of the holder coated with a thin coat of conductive anticorrosion compound. C7.5.3 Link type fuses are to have the contact area of the fuse and the blades of the holder coated with a thin coat of conductive anti-corrosion compound. Return to: Top of document DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 119

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

C8. C8.1

CHAPTER 8.

Grounding requirements

General Requirements

C8.1.1 A DISN facility ground system is to be composed of the following four subsystems with the exception of facilities located in the Arctic and Antarctic regions: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Earth Electrode Lightning Protection Fault Protection Signal Reference

C8.1.2 All subsystems are to meet the criteria of MIL-STD-188124 and the guidelines MIL-HDBK-419A. Where conflicts in the standards exist, the more stringent requirement shall be used. DISA equipment and systems are not to be installed at facilities that do not meet the above requirement without the approval of DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 120

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISA NS6. Facilities that receive a waiver are to submit a plan for correcting all cited discrepancies within 30 days after receiving the waiver to DISA NS6. C8.1.3 The Site Concurrence Letter should request the Site provide and install the AC Power connections required for the installation of the DISN equipment. C8.1.4 The Site Concurrence Letter should request the Site provide a dedicated ground for the DISN. This will enable the ground reference to be as close to True ground as possible. C8.2 Earth Electrode Subsystem.

C8.2.1 Engineering drawings accurately illustrate the physical dimension and layout of the EES. The EES engineering drawing is to show the location of the following items: ground rods, grids, plates, interconnecting conductors, ground wells, ground reference point and EES connecting points. C8.2.2 All modifications to the EES shall be shown in a dated and approved revision for the system installation drawing, or RED-LINE into the current installation drawing. C8.2.3 Review the earth resistance measurements of the earth electrode system in accordance with the fall-of-potential method as described in Volume II, Section 2.7.2 and Volume 2, Section 2.2.2.2.1 of MIL-HDBK-419A. The earth resistance measurement of the EES must have been performed at least three months after the EES was back filled. Figures C8.2.2 and C8.2.23 show samples of a drawing and worksheet from a sample test report of a properly performed resistance to earth measurement of an EES. C8.2.4 The fall-of-potential earth resistance measurement of the EES is to be less than 5 ohms. C8.3 Lightning Protection System

C8.3.1 Air terminals must extend at least 25 cm (10 inches) directly above the object that it is protecting. C8.3.2 Coaxial lines and waveguides between the antenna and the associated transmit/receive equipment shall be grounded as stated in the subparagraphs following.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 121

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8.3.3 Each transmission line shall be bonded to the down conductor of the tower's air terminal at the top near its antenna and at the bottom near the vertical to horizontal transition point from the tower. C8.3.4 Transmission lines are also to be bonded to the antenna tower at the same points, as well as at intervals of approximately every 30 meters when the tower exceeds 60 meters (200 feet). C8.3.5 All transmission lines, conduit or piping entering a building must be bonded to the entry plate as shown in Figure C8.3.1. C8.3.6 Lightning surge arrestors shall be installed on all power lines entering a building, normally at the facility main disconnect point found typically in the main electrical distribution panel. C8.3.7 All metallic signal/data lines entering the building that shall be terminated to surge arrestors at the main distribution frame shall be near the cable entrance panel.

Transmission Line at Entry Plate Figure C8.3.1 DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 122

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8.4 Fault Protection Subsystem

C8.4.1 Fault protection ground wires are not to be used to conduct normal load currents and are only to be used to conduct line to ground fault currents. C8.4.2 All single-phase electric power receptacles shall have three wires, including a safety ground, neutral and phase. C8.4.3 Refer to the illustration of a NEMA-15 electrical outlet in Figure C8.4.1. Note that the Phase slot is smaller in size than the Neutral slot. Dependent on the normal voltage setting of the regional electrical provider or the setting of the inverters of the facility's UPS, the Phase-to-Neutral voltage shall range from 108 to 125 VAC. The voltage between the Ground-to-Neutral conductors is not to exceed 2 VAC. The voltage between the Neutral-to-Phase is to be approximately the sum or difference of the Neutral-to-Phase and Ground-to-Neutral voltage.

Appox. PN+/-GN VAC

>2 VAC

G

P

N

G: Ground N: Neutral P: Phase

108-125 VAC

Voltage of a NEMA-15 Outlet Figure C8.4.1

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 123

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8.4.4 Using a clamp-on current probe with all equipment installed and operational, measure and record the current on the main fault-protection ground line in the circuit breaker box that is providing power to the newly installed equipment. If the current on the ground line exceeds one-amp, notify the responsible party on-site and DISA NS6. C8.5 Signal Ground Reference

C8.5.1 Low frequency signal ground reference systems, such as a single-point ground bus (overhead copper bus-bars or large gauge uninsulated bus cable routed under a raised floor) shall not be installed in new DISN Facilities due to their poor performance in conducting high frequency noise emissions to ground. In the event that a low-frequency ground reference system was previously installed, contact DISA NS6 for further instructions. C8.5.2 Only high frequency signal ground reference systems shall be installed in new DISN Facilities, unless otherwised authorized by DISA NS6. A high frequency signal reference typically consists of the three primary components: equipotential plane, equipment ground conductors, and structural steel elements and electrical supporting structures, connected to the earth electrode subsystem. C8.5.3 Document what types of equipotential planes are utilized in the facility. C8.5.4 The structural steel of the building is to be connected to the earth electrode subsystem with 1/0 AWG copper cables. C8.5.5 The distance between adjacent connections from the building structure to the earth electrode subsystem should not exceed 15 meters (50 feet). C8.5.6 In buildings where steel frame construction is not used, a supplemental network must be installed consisting of large copper cables conforming to Table C8.5.1 below. C8.5.7 Equipment racks, electrical supporting structures, and utility pipes shall be connected to this structural steel of the building or copper cable grid of the equipotential plane with #6 AWG copper wire. C8.5.8 This interconnecting wire should be as short as feasible, and not exceeding 24 inches to minimize high frequency reactance. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 124

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Cable Size(AWG) 750 MCM (380 mm2) 600 MCM (338 mm2) 500 MCM (253.4 mm2) 350 MCM (173.5 mm2) 300 MCM (152 mm2) 250 MCM (126.7 mm2) 4/0 (107.2 mm2) 3/0 (85 mm2) 2/0 (67.4 mm2) 1/0 (53.5 mm2) 1 (42.4 mm2) 2 (33.6 mm2) 4 (21.2 mm2) 6 (13.3 mm2) 8 (8.4 mm2) Bus Bar Cross Sectional Area(In.) 4 X ź 4 X 1/8 3 X ź 3 X 1/8 2 X ź 2 X 1/8 2 X 1/6 1 X ź 1 X 1/8 1 X1/16

Maximum Path Length (FT) 375 (115 M) 300 (91 M) 250 (76 M) 175 (53 M) 150 (45 M) 125 (38 M) 105 (32 M) 84 (25 M) 66 (20 M) 53 (16 M) 41 (12.5 M) 33 (10 M) 21 (6.4 M) 13 (4 M) 8 (2.4 M)

636 318 476 238 318 159 79 159 79 39

Maximum Length of Ground Cables and Bus Bars Table C8.5.1

C8.5.9 Where possible, the chassis of rack mounted equipment should be connected to the racks signal ground bus bar or metallic plate mounting flanges. Equipment racks, ground bus or metallic plated mounting flanges are then connected to the equipotential plane. The equipotential plane is then terminated to the earth electrode subsystem to ensure personnel safety and a low impedance path for lower frequency signals. It is permissable to install a home run ground to relay racks IAW Mil Standards and ground equipment ot the relay rack. DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 125

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8.5.10 In an EMP hardened facility or other shielded enclosure structure, the metal floor of the enclosure shall be used as the equipotenial plane. C8.5.11 If an overhead equipotential plane is utilized, because it is impractical to install a plane on the floor around the equipment ensure: ˇ ˇ ˇ The overhead equipotential plane is fabricated from screening or sheets of metal. The overhead equipotential plane is fabricated from a grid with a 4-inch or less spacing. The grounding cables from the equipment racks to the overhead plane shall be 3 feet or less in length.

C8.5.12 The plane shall be bonded to the main structural steel members of the building at multiple locations. The structural steel shall in turn be bonded to the earth electrode subsystem. C8.6 Routing, Supporting, and Securing Grounding Conductors

C8.6.1 Signal or equipotential planes grounding conductors are not to be run on top of cable racks, or next to power, signal or control lines. Ground conductors shall be run in such a manner as to facilitate visual inspection of the conductors. C8.6.2 Signal or equipotential plane grounding conductors shall be routed in straight paths unless not feasible due to rack, equipment or partition layout. C8.6.3 Changes in signal or equipotential plane grounding conductor direction are not to exceed 90 degrees and have a radius greater than 8 inches (20 cm). C8.6.4 Racks/cabinets shall be grounded to the EES by a six AWG (13.3 mm2) wire or larger, in accordance with Table C8.6.1 of this document. The ground wires from rack/cabinet to the EES are not to exceed three feet in length. They shall be terminated to rack/cabinet ground buses and to conductors of the EES that are size 1/0 AWG (53.5 mm2) or greater. A recommended grounding option is to attach a copper ground bar or copper strip to the rack for grounding equipment. Two-hole lugs should be used for secure grounding of equipment. Removing paint at the point of contact in the equipment with Type "B" tooth lock DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 126

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
washers is an acceptable commercial practice, as long as a bonding resistance of 1 milliohm is not exceeded. Bonding on all four sides of the rack is required and each cabinet should be connected to the signal grounding infrastructure with an AWG6 copper conductor that is less than six feet in length. Table C8.6.1 below lists the recommended size of ground cables for general grounding applications.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 127

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Function of Wire Signal reference or equipotential plane members Signal reference or equipotential plane to earth electrode subsystem Signal reference or equipotential plane to individual cabinet/rack/frame Equipment to ground bus in individual cabinet/rack/frame Short bond strap such as those between ladder or duct sections

Wire Size Typical 2 AWG ­ 4/0 AWG (2 AWG min.) (33.6-107.2 mm2(33.6 mm2 min.)) 1/0 AWG (2 AWG min.) (53.4 mm2(33.6 mm2 min.)) 6 AWG (8 AWG min.) (13.3 mm2(8.35 mm2 min.))

10 AWG (12 AWG min.) (5.27 mm2(3.31 mm2 min.)) 12 AWG (14 AWG min.) (3.31 mm2(2.08 mm2 min.))

Recommended Ground Cable Size per Application Table C8.6.1 C8.6.5 The resistance between the ground bus of the installed rack/cabinet and any other grounding point to the building EES is to not exceed 5 milli-ohms. Any two ground references in the equipment room measured with distances over 3 meters should be less than 20 milli-ohms. If these specifications are not met, report the discrepancy to DISA NS6. C8.6.6 The direction of bend in a grounding conductor is to point towards the connection to the earth electrode subsystem. Grounding conductors used for framework grounding are exempt from this requirement, but are to conform if possible. C8.6.7 Signal or equipotential planes grounding conductors shall be supported and secured at intervals of no more than 18". C8.6.8 Grounding conductors shall be secured to with two cable ties. On short support straps or the cable is to be strapped to the underside of bracket or cross-member. On all other brackets, be placed on top. support brackets cable ladders, the support the cable is to

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 128

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8.6.9 Ground leads are not to be completely enclosed by metal, i.e. conduit, threaded rod, etc. When this is unavoidable, both ends of the conduit etc. shall be bonded to the ground lead. C8.7 Termination of Ground Conductors

C8.7.1 An anti-corrosion compound (e.g. NO-OX-ID-AŽ) is required on all external ground connections. C8.7.2 All ground connections shall be clean, secure, and have a bond resistance less than 1 milli-ohm. C8.7.3 Non-conductive coatings such as paint shall be stripped from an area one and a half times the size of the contact area of the lug to expose bare metal before a ground lead is terminated to a particular piece of equipment, frame or structure. C8.7.4 Two-hole compression connectors of the proper size for the wire and bus bar are required on all ground bus bars unless otherwise specified by the installation plans. C8.7.5 All ground conductors shall be copper and terminated with two-hole compression connectors unless otherwise specified by the installation plans. One-hole connectors may be used to ground equipment shelves, etc. C8.7.6 All armored inner duct and metal stiffening members shall be grounded where they first enter the building or cable vault. C8.7.7 Ensure that all cabinets, cable ladder and metal ducting are grounded to the earth electrode subsystem. C8.7.8 All structures such as conduits, cable trays, ducts, power enclosures, and other conductive members longer than 4 feet shall be grounded to the EES at multiple points. They must be grounded regardless of whether they contain a power or signal cable. All fittings must be tight and covers securely fastened. All grounding lock nuts or toothed lock washers must penetrate paint or other non-conductive finishes. Structures shall be connected to the equipotential plane or signal reference subsystem within 24 inches (61 cm) of each end of a run and at intervals, not to exceed 50 feet (15 M). C8.7.9 Proper wire sizes, identified in the installation plans, shall be used. The wire must not be smaller than the indicated minimum size and must provide at least 500 cmil (0.25 mm 2) cross DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 129

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
sectional area per running foot (30 cm) for trunk ground cable and at least 2000 cmil (1 mm2) cross sectional area per running foot (30 cm) for all other signal ground cables. C8.8 Grounding Conductor Identification

Ground leads shall be identified at all common ground points, such as at the Station Ground Bar (SGB) or Telecommunications Master Ground Busbar (TMGB). Grounding installation shall be in accordance with the NEC NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2005. Proper grounding is a life safety requirement and shall not be waived. The contractor shall install a Telecommunications Master Ground Busbar (TMGB) at the DISN site cable entrance area(s). The TMGB shall be connected to the building's main power ground busbar with the appropriate sized cable having a green jacket with a yellow stripe, installed in an appropriate conduit, if required, to protect the cabling. C8.8.1 A "Do Not Disconnect" tag is to be attached to each end of all grounding conductors extending between the signal ground subsystem and the earth electrode subsystem. Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 130

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C9. CHAPTER 9. COAX GROUNDING C9.1 WAVEGUIDE, RIDGED-COAX, AND SEMI-RIDGED

General Requirements

C9.1.1 All waveguides, ridged coax and semi-ridged coax (Helix) shall be grounded in four locations as follows: (1) To the nearest grounding point behind the respective antenna. (2) At the base of the antenna tower as the transmission line bends 90 degrees from a vertical to a horizontal transition. (3) At the entrance to the building near the transmission line feed-through panel. (4) At every 100 foot (33 M) or shorter intervals along the length of the tower. C9.1.2 Grounding kits specified by the manufacturer of the waveguides, ridged coax or semi-ridged coax shall be used. Transmission line grounding kits shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction, as specified by the engineering drawings and installation plans. C9.1.3 The metallic supporting structures for the waveguides shall be electrically continuous and connected to the exterior Earth Electrode System (EES) with a minimum of 6 AWG (13.3 mm2) wire at the first and last support columns. (The wire leads shall be as direct as possible). C9.1.4 All transmission lines shall be properly bonded to the entrance panel. The entrance panel is to be connected by the most direct route to the EES using a 1/0­AWG (53.5 mm2) or larger stranded copper cable. The bonding resistance between the entrance panel and the EES is to be less than five milli-ohms. C9.1.5 The air-dielectric of the waveguide and coaxial line is to be pressurized between 3 and 8 PSI (20 ­ 55 KPa) with dry air or nitrogen. C9.1.6 The dry-air system for the air-dielectric is to provide an audible alarm to a manned monitoring position for the following conditions: the relative humidity of the airdielectric has exceeded 8%, the air pressure of the air dielectric is less than 2 PSI (14 KPa), the air pressure of the air dielectric is more than 9 PSI (62 KPa).

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 131

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 132

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C10. CHAPTER 10. Documentation

C10.1 General Requirements C10.1.1 Upon completion of the installation, the Vendor's installation team shall provide up-to-date marked engineering drawings, also referred to as "REDLINE DRAWINGS," to their engineering support team. The Redline Drawings shall show all changes or deviations from the original approved engineering drawings. Changes or deviations shall be recorded on all corresponding drawings, i.e.: block diagrams, cable/wire/run lists, floor plans, interconnecting diagrams, network architect drawings, rack-face elevations and system diagrams. The following color scheme is to be used for indicating changes: C10.1.2 RED: Equipment addition or changes, assignment changes, cable rerouting or changes. C10.1.3 YELLOW HIGHLIGHT: Equipment or cabling removal or relocation. C10.1.4 BLUE: Text information on changes representing new information that affects existing records, but does not reflect equipment being removed or added. C10.1.5 As part of the completion report submission, the Vendor's engineering support team shall reflect the Redline Drawing information in the final "AS-BUILT" drawing submitted to NS6 and the DISA Configuration Management Team as an update to DISA's Network Configuration and Change Management tool (NCCM). C10.1.6 Installation teams shall ensure proper hand over to DISA Operations for monitoring and maintaining the installed system and not depart the site until released by DISA Operations after their acceptance of system.

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 133

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C10.1.7 Information concerning the installation of DISN/DISN communication equipment and software, DOD-owned and leased links is to include communication networks and systems of DISA and facilities established in direct support of DISN/DISN systems or links, to include system controls, tech controls, patch/tests, multiplexers, and electrical power sources. They shall be reported to the designated DISA configuration manager and Information System Security Officer (ISSO) in accordance with DISAC 300-85-1. The following key information is the minimum required to be reported on equipment or software installs: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Station name Station location (city and state or country) Unit designator Building number Room number Equipment rack number Equipment/software noun name Equipment/software manufacturer Equipment/software model number Equipment/software version Equipment/software serial number System name or designator in which used in Node name IAW DISN Naming convention i.e. UJEWPNT010

C10.1.8 All drawings and documentation shall remain the property of DISA until officially turned over to the respective command and by DISA at the project completion. This would include, but not be limited to, the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Original installation and marked working drawings Vendor's standard drawings Technical and Installation manuals Test summaries and records Battery operation and charge records Operating and maintenance instructions Equipment software packages

C10.1.9 The following color scheme is to be followed to mark blue prints and drawings:

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 134

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

RED

YELLOW

Equipment additions and assignment changes, which represent equipment, which is being added, reconfigured, reassigned, or modified. Equipment which is being removed or relocated. "Information Only" changes. Changes, which represent new information affecting existing records, but do not reflect equipment being removed or added.

BLUE

Color Code for Blue Prints and Engineering Drawings Table C10.1.1

Return to: Top of document Return to: Table of Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C Appendix D

DISN IMPLEMENTATION STANDARDS

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Page 135

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Appendix A. DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST YES NO N/A Remarks

1.

2.

3. 4.

5. 6. 7.

8.

Electrical Power Quality Instructions The following electrical power quality characteristics shall be measured and recorded: RMS Voltage (VRMS), Peak Voltage Vpk, RMS Amperage (ARMS), Peak Amperage (APk), Line Frequency, Voltage Total Harmonic Distortion (VTHD) , Current Total Harmonic Distortion (ITHD), Real Power (KW), Apparent Power (KVA), Reactance Power (KVAR) Power Factor (PF), voltage swell, voltage transients, voltage sags, To measure and record frequently occurring abnormalities of the selected location's electrical power quality it is strongly recommended that the duration of a power quality test is at least week long. The minimum duration of an electrical power quality test shall be eight ­ hours. The power quality test shall be conducted at the power panels in which the planned system(s) derive its power from. In addition the site's emergency generator system shall be brought on line using its automatic start function and shall power the selected site. The power analyzer's measuring location shall be relocated to the power input of the UPS The generator system shall power the site for at least an hour, but no longer then four hours. The selected power quality analyzer (and measurement recorder) shall have at least an one hour battery backup and the capability of measuring and recording the electrical parameters list in Instruction 1 at their possible minimum and maximum magnitude. In the test data sheets provide the initial, maximum and minimum measurement of each parameter.

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13.

14. 15. 16.

Pass-Fail and Report Specifications: VRMS differences between phases shall not exceed ą2% of the mean; Neutral to ground VRMS voltage shall not exceed 2% of the phase VRMS; Report ARMS differences between phases when they exceed ą10% of mean; ARMS differences between phases shall not exceed ą10% of mean at the output of a transformer; ARMS on the ground shall not exceed 0.1 ARMS VTHD% shall not exceed 5% on phases. Report ITHD% that exceed 20% on a phase. ITHD% shall not exceed 35% on phases. Power factor shell be greater than 85%. Line frequency is within a half of cycle of the standard line frequency of the the region of 50 Hz or 60 Hz. Steady state voltage shall not exceed ą10% normal VRMS. Line shall be less than 120% of normal and shall not exceed 0.5 seconds in duration. Transients shall be less 200% of normal VPk, shall have a ringing frequency less than 5 KHz, and shall have duration of less than 3 milliseconds. Voltage sags greater than 80% of normal VRMS shall have, shall have a duration of less then 10 seconds; Voltage sags greater than 70% but less than 80% of normal VRMS shall have, shall have a duration of less then 0.5 seconds; Voltage dropouts shall be less then 20 milliseconds long in duration.

Test results provided by site's power support team or previous implementations power survey may be utilized if less than two years old. If test results are older or unavailable, request the site have their power tested before completing site survey. If the site is unable to conduct a power survey before the site survey begings, the implementations vendor may perform a power survey to utilize. The results from the power and grounding tests shall be compared to the equipment manufacturer's specifications to determine site suitability. If the site is unsuitable for DISN suite installation, notify DISA NS-6 immediately for escalation and go/nogo decision.

A1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.1 1.1.1 1.1.2 1.2.1 1.2.2 1.2.3 1.2.4

YES

NO

N/A

Remarks

1.2.5

Electrical Power Quality Test Base name : Building address: Site's Normal Power Configuration Test point location: Start Date/Time (YYMMDDHHmm): Initial power quality measurement, in Normal Power Configuration Mode at selected test point . Phase to Neu. VRMS Phase ARMS ARMS Neu. A A Grd. B B C C Phase VTHD% Phase & Neu. ATHD% K-Factor A A A B B B C C C Neu. Neu. Real Power KW Apparent Power KVA Power Factor, cosine A A A B B B C C C LINE FREQ Hz End Date/Time: (YYMMDDHHmm):

A2

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.2.6.1 Maximum magnitudes Phase to Neu. VRMS A B C Phase VTHD% A B C Real Power KW A B C 1.2.6.2 LINE FREQ Minimum Magnitudes Phase to Neu. VRMS A B C Phase VTHD% A B C

YES Phase ARMS A B C Phase & Neu. ATHD% A B C Neu. Apparent Power KVA A B C LINE FREQ Hz ARMS Neu. Grd.

NO

N/A

Remarks

K-Factor A B C Neu. Power Factor, cosine A B C

1.2.7

Phase ARMS RMS Neu. A Grd. B C Phase & Neu. ATHD% K-Factor A A B B C C Neu. Neu. Real Power KW Apparent Power KVA Power Factor, cosine A A A B B B C C C Line Freq Hz Steady state voltage is within ą10% of normal RMS voltage?

A3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.2.8 1.2.9 Line frequency is within a half cycle of 50 or 60 Hz? No line voltage swells occurred that were than 120% of normal RMS voltage with a duration of greater then 0.5 second? In the remark section list the magnitude, duration and the date/time when line voltage swells occurred that that were greater than 120% of normal RMS line voltage and longer then 0.5 seconds in duration. No transients occurred that were greater than 200% normal peak voltage, with a ring frequency greater than 5 KHz or a duration longer then 3 millisecond? In the remark section list the peak voltage, ring frequency, raise time, fall time and the date/time when transients occurred that were greater than 200% normal peak voltage, with a ring frequency greater than 5 KHz or a duration longer then 3 millisecond. No voltage sags greater than 80% of normal RMS voltage with duration longer then 10 seconds occurred? In the remark section list the lowest voltage, duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage sags greater than 80% of normal RMS line voltage and with duration greater then 10 seconds. No voltage sags greater than 70% but less than 80% of normal RMS line voltage with a duration greater then 0.5 second occurred? In the remark section list the lowest voltage, duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage sags greater than 70% but less than 80% of normal RMS line voltage with a duration greater then 0.5 second occurred No voltage dropouts greater then 20 milliseconds long occurred? YES NO N/A Remarks

1.2.9.1

1.2.10

1.2.10.1

1.2.11

1.2.11.1

1.2.12

1.2.12.1

1.2.13

A4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.2.13.1 YES NO N/A Remarks

1.3.2 1.3.3 1.3.4

In the remark section list the duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage dropouts longer then 20 milliseconds . Test point location: Start Date/Time (YYMMDDHHmm): Initial power quality measurement, in Normal Power Configuration Mode at selected test point . Phase to Neu. VRMS Phase ARMS ARMS Neu. A A Grd. B B C Phase & Neu. ATHD% A A B B C C Neu. Real Power KW Apparent Power KVA A A B B C C Line Freq Hz End Date/Time: (YYMMDDHHmm): Phase VTHD% C K-Factor A B C Neu. Power Factor, cosine A B C

1.3.5

A5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.3.6.1 Maximum magnitudes Phase to Neu. VRMS A B C Phase VTHD% A B C Real Power KW A B C 1.3.6.2 Line Freq Minimum Magnitudes Phase to Neu. VMS A B C Phase VTHD% A B C YES Phase ARMS A B C Phase & eu. ATHD% A B C Neu. Apparent Power KVA A B C Hz ARMS Neu. Grd. K-Factor A B C Neu. Power Factor, cosine A B C NO N/A Remarks

1.3.7

Phase ARMS ARMS Neu. A Grd. B C Phase & Neu. ATHD% K-Factor A A B B C C Neu. Neu. Real Power KW Apparent Power KVA Power Factor, cosine A A A B B B C C C Line req Hz Steady state voltage is within ą10% of normal RMS voltage?

A6

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 1.3.8 1.3.9.1 Line frequency is within a half cycle of 50 or 60 Hz? In the remark section list the magnitude, duration and the date/time when line voltage swells occurred that that were greater than 120% of normal RMS line voltage and longer then 0.5 seconds in duration. No transients occurred that were greater than 200% normal peak voltage, with a ring frequency greater than 5 KHz or a duration longer then 3 millisecond? In the remark section list the peak voltage, ring frequency, raise time, fall time and the date/time when transients occurred that were greater than 200% normal peak voltage, with a ring frequency greater than 5 KHz or a duration longer then 3 millisecond. No voltage sags greater than 80% of normal RMS voltage with duration longer then 10 seconds occurred? In the remark section list the lowest voltage, duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage sags greater than 80% of normal RMS line voltage and with duration greater then 10 seconds. No voltage sags greater than 70% but less than 80% of normal RMS line voltage with a duration greater then 0.5 second occurred? In the remark section list the lowest voltage, duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage sags greater than 70% but less than 80% of normal RMS line voltage with a duration greater then 0.5 second occurred No voltage dropouts greater then 20 milliseconds long occurred? In the remark section list the duration and the date/time of occurrences of voltage dropouts longer then 20 milliseconds YES NO N/A Remarks

1.3.10

1.3.10.1

1.3.11

1.3.11.1

1.3.12

1.3.12.1

1.3.13 1.3.13.1

A7

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST Grounding, Bonding and Shielding Site Survey 2. Earth Electrode System 2.1 2.1.1 What is the soil resistivity (if known ) ? ohm/cm3 2.1.1.1 What is the resistance of the complete Earth Electrode System (EES)? Ohms 2.1.1.2 Earth resistance measured using Fall-of-Potential Method? 2.1.2 Configuration: (attach as-built drawing) 2.1.2 IAW drawing list the following detail: 2.1.2.1 Ground rod size and length: 2.1.2.2 Ground rod composition: 2.1.2.3 Counterpoise cable size: 2.1.2.4 Counterpoise cable depth: 2.1.2.5 Grounding conductor size and length: 2.1.2.6 Grounding conductor composition: 2.1.2.7 Are ground wells used in the EES design? Lightning Protection System 2.2 2.2.1 IAW with the applicable lightning flash density map, in flashes/km2/year flashes/km2/year 2.2.1.1 2.2.2 2.2.2.1 2.2.2.2 2.2.3 2.2.3.1 2.2.3.2 2.2.3.3 2.2.4 2.2.5 2.2.6 2.2.6.1 2.2.6.2 What is the lightning flash density at the survey site? Rolling Sphere Method of lightning protection,: Attach profile views of selected facility's rolling sphere protection. Approximate radius of average rolling sphere ? Attach drawing of building's, showing placement and routing of air terminals, roof conductors, down conductors. Air terminal material and height: Roof conductor material and size: Down conductor material and size: Lightning surge protectors are installed on power lines entering the building at the electrical disconnect point. Lightning surge protectors are installed on all metallic signal lines entering the building before the MDF. The outer shield of coax and wave guide transmission lines are grounded at the following points: At their respective antennas At every 100 ft (30M) interval on antenna mast Remarks

A8

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DISN SITE POWER CHECKLIST 2.2.6.3 Near all 90° bends of the transmission line 2.2.6.4 At the buildings transmission entrance panel Signal Reference Ground 2.3 2.3.1 Type of signal reference ground, Single-Point, Multi-Point, Equipotential Plane 2.3.2 Signal highest standard data rates or carrier frequencies use by electronic equipment 2.3.3 Single point ground system 2.3.3.1 Attach drawing of routing configuration and termination point to EES . 2.3.3.2 Main bus/trunk conductor type and composition: 2.3.3.3 Main bus/trunk size: Grounding, Bonding and Shielding Site Survey 2. 2.3.3.4 Main bus/trunk length: 2.3.3.5 Branch trunks conductors type and composition: 2.3.3.6 Branch trunks size: 2.3.3.7 Main trunks lengths: 2.3.4 Multi point ground system 2.3.4.1 Attach drawing of routing configuration and termination points to EES . 2.3.4.2 Main bus/trunk conductor type and composition: 2.3.4.3 Main bus/trunk size: 2.3.4.4 Main bus/trunk length: 2.3.4.5 Branch trunks conductors type and composition: 2.3.4.6 Branch trunks size: 2.3.5 Equipotential Plane 2.3.5.1 Type of equipotential plane: 2.3.5.2 Copper grid embedded in concert floor 2.3.5.3 Raised metal floor frame 2.3.5.4 Aluminum, copper, bronze screen or sheet metal under floor tile or carpet 2.3.5.5 Ceiling grid above equipment 2.3.5.6 Standard grid size used in equipotential plane 2.3.5.7 Type of raise floor: 2.3.5.7.1 Bolted ­Grid or Rigid-Grid System raised floor frame 2.3.5.7.2 Drop-In or Removable Grid raised floor frame 2.3.5.7.3 Free Standing raised floor frame 2.3.5.7.4 Size of raised floor tiles 2.3.5.7.5 Bond resistance between equipment rack ground and raised floor frame is less than 1-milliohm? 2.3.5.7.6 Bond resistance between a vertical pedestal and horizontal stringer is less than 100 micro- ohms Remarks

A9

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Appendix B. DISN SITE SURVEY CHECKLIST Table 1: Router Replacements and Upgrades Upgrade Upgrade Comments Install Install 7613 7613 7613 7613 Power Power NIPR SIPR NIPR SIPR Node ID Rack ID # of items Transport Support Transport requirements include installation and/or upgrade of ODXCs Installation of M13 and T-640s. Sites that are candidates for upgrades will be equipped with Network Elements (NE) to provide a platform for access to the network, a migration path for existing circuits, and for DCN network management. The following table indicates NEs to be installed, de-installed and upgraded: Table 2: T-640 and M13 Replacements, Installations or Upgrades Install M13 Upgrade T-640 Comments Node ID # of items Transport Requirements/ Capacity Upgrade The following table indicates the number of ODXC items to be installed. Table 3: ODXC Capacity Upgrade Table Install USC LIM XFP LIM SN9K Modules Filler plug- Comments Modules Plates ins Node ID # of items Transport Requirements/ Capacity Upgrade The following table indicates the number of MSPP items to be installed. Table 4: MSPP Capacity Upgrade Table Install MSPP Install MSPP Comments Cards Node ID # of items
B1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SIPR COMSEC The following table indicates the number of KIV/KG items to be installed Table 5: SIRP COMSEC KIV/KG Table KIV KG KIV KG DeDeComments Install Install Install Install CCSD # of items General Information Surveyor Information Enter the date of survey and surveyor contact information in the table below. Survey Date: Surveyor Responsibility/Title Phone Email Name Site POCs Primary POC: CMCL: DSN: Email: Alternate POC CMCL: DSN: Email: Other Site Personnel Other POCs Name Position / Org. Phone E-mail

Security POC: Other: ALT Security POC Technical POC: Power POC: NIPR POC: SIPR POC: ATM POC: Site Shipping Information Shipping Information
B2

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Shipping Information Site Name: Shipping/Reference Code: Primary Shipping Address (must contain POC name and phone #): Delivery Hours: Secondary Shipping Address (must contain POC name and phone #): Delivery Hours: Delivery Notice Required? (if so, how much) Ship to: Central Warehouse Site? If shipped to site, Is there a Loading Dock and a clear route to the Installation Location? Y N Installation Site Installation Site Site Name: Building: Site Address: Directions to Facility: Facility Access Procedures Facility Access 24 Hour Normal Business Y N Access: Hours: Restrictions: VAR Procedures: Lead-time: Badging: Escorts: Other paperwork: Are the following allowed? Y/N and Conditions Cameras Y N
B3

Survey Dates: Room #:

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Facility Access Laptops Y N Cell Phones Y N PDAs Y N Test Equipment Y N Data Transfer Y N SIPRNet Account Access Y N Other Restrictions/Requirements? Equipment Location Existing SIPR and NIPR 7500s Identify the specific location of existing SIPR and NIPR 7500 equipment. Locations of Existing SIPR and NIPR 7500s 7613 SIPR NIPR N/A 7613 SIPR NIPR N/A 7613 SIPR NIPR N/A

Node ID: Node ID: Node ID: Bldg: Bldg: Bldg: Room: Room: Room: Rack: Rack: Rack: Floor: Concrete Floor: Concrete Floor: Concrete Raised Raised Raised If raised floor: Height: Tempest rated? Y N Y N N/A Y N N/A N/A Plenum rated? Y N Y N N/A Y N N/A N/A Obstructions underneath? Y N N/A Y N N/A Y N N/A Asbestos tiles? Y Y N N/A Y N N/A N If concrete slab floor: How thick is the floor? Will existing 7500-rack space accommodate the new 7613? (dimensions on pg 1) Y N N/A Y N N/A Y N N/A If No, where can the new 7613 be installed?

B4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIPR NIPR N/A SIPR Bldg: Room: Rack: NIPR N/A SIPR Bldg: Room: Rack: NIPR N/A

Bldg: Room: Rack: Existing Crypto

Locations of Existing Crypto KG/KIV KG/KIV KG/KIV Bldg: Bldg: Bldg: Room: Room: Room: Rack: Rack: Rack: RU #: RU #: RU #: CCSD: CCSD: CCSD: Proposed Locations for new Crypto KG/KIV KG/KIV KG/KIV Bldg: Bldg: Bldg: Room: Room: Room: Rack: Rack: Rack: RU #: RU #: RU #: CCSD: CCSD: CCSD: Is there a rack or cabinet available for use at the site? Y N Rack ID Rack ID Rack ID If YES: What are the dimensions of the rack? Does existing equipment need to be de-installed? If Yes: who will remove equipment? If site provides cabinet, ensure adequate ventilation/cooling. Any S-Pecial type/size screws or other hardware? Provide an accurate sketch of the rack. If NO: Are there Specific rack requirements? Does site prefer rack or cabinet? Who will be responsible for the installation of new racks?

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

B5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Are there site-Specific anchoring requirements? Are there Telcordia Seismic Zone requirements? Zone 1, 2, 3 or 4? Does a rack need to be deinstalled? If so, who replaces the floor tiles? Notes:

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

Cable Management ­ NIPR, SIPR, T-640, M13 Ladder Rack Ladder Rack Ladder Rack Dimensions: Width: Rail height: Distance between cross bars Type: ladder or bar? Hollow or solid? Color: Telco Gray, black, other Is there a pan? Y N Is there capacity on Y N existing ladder rack for new cabling? Ladder Rack Height: Height above racks? Height above ground? Ladder Rack Support: Attached to rack only? Y N To rack AND ceiling? Y N Rack Mount: J-bolts or C-clamps? Framing brackets? Y N Aux bar? Y N Ceiling mount: How is it mounted? (ie, to steel girders, drilled into the floor, etc.) Height between rack and false ceiling? Distance between rack and ceiling? Threaded Rods:
B6

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ladder Rack How many supports per section of ladder rack? 1/2" or 5/8" diameter? Note any obstructions: Ladder Rack Extension Is Ladder Rack Extension needed? Y section. Fiber Management Fiber Management Is there existing fiber duct above the ladder rack that we can use/connect to? Y N SIPR Location NIPR Location T-640/M13 Existing fiber duct Bldg: Rm: Bldg: Rm: Bldg: Rm: Manufacturer: Part Number: Size & Color: If no fiber duct is required, does the site use inter-duct? Y N/A Manufacturer: Size & Color: Will duct run under or over ladder rack? What height and width is available to install fiber guide above the ladder rack? If new duct is needed: Does site require Y N Y N Y N existing brand? Is Panduit brand Y N Y N Y N accepted Will duct run 90Y N Y N Y N degree angles Will duct step up? Y N Y N Y N Will duct step down? Y N Y N Y N Support: ladder rack, track, aux bar, other?

N

If No, skip to next

N

B7

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Fiber Management Is fiber guide standalone or will it connect to existing fiber guide? (Check with site to verify that installer can cut into existing fiber guide.) Notes: Power and Ground DC Power DC Power Is existing equipment DC powered? NIPR: Y N N/A SIPR: Y N N/A If Yes: Can the site provide adequate DC power to meet the needs of a CISCO 7613 (6000W)? NIPR: Y N N/A SIPR: Y N N/A If No: Can another LXP Module be added to the current Y N rectifier? LXP Module: Manufacturer Part Number If No: Can another rectifier be Y N added? Who will add the rectifier? Rectifier Manufacturer Shelf: Part Number DC Backup Power Are batteries used? Y N What is the Amp-hour capacity/ Can it support the new equipment? Do DC power feeds run to the Y N racks? If so, what gauge? DC Breaker Panel: Location of DC power panel (rack ID)
B8

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DC Power How close to the power supply will the new equipment be located? Does the power panel have adequate expansion capability? The 7613 Y N requires a total of 8x 40A breakers, 4 A-side, 4 B-side. Note the following: A B C D E F # of available breaker positions Current Load Total AMP Rating What is the maximum breaker size? Breaker Manufacturer Panel: Part Number Breaker Part Number Will the site POC provide the Y N breakers? Will the site provide lugs? Y N If No, list specifications (may be different for battery and return feeds): Max lug width 0.610" Is angling required? NO Dual or single hole? DUAL HOLE Stud size Length of bolts required What is the distance to the racks (note the cable path)? Are there site-specific requirements for cabling? Ex: color for power cabling. (Note: DISA standard is red & blue.) Is cable tray required for Y N power runs? Is a specific tray required? Y N What is the Manufacturer cable tray: Model Part Number Is there an existing FAP in or near the rack that can be used: FAP rack ID and shelf:
B9

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DC Power What is the distance and cable path? What is the Manufacturer FAP: Model Part Number Size of the breaker powering the FAP? What fuse positions (if any) are available? How many fuse positions of each type are available? Lug specifications? What types of fuses are required? Power Notes: AC Power AC Power Is existing equipment AC powered? NIPR: Y N N/A SIPR: Y N N/A If Yes: Can the site provide adequate AC power to meet the needs of a CISCO 7613 (6000W)? NIPR: Y N N/A SIPR: Y N N/A If No: Refer to DC survey information Do AC circuits exist at the proposed rack locations? What voltages are available? If No: Can the site provide Y N adequate AC power? What voltage can the site provide? Will site extend AC power to Y N the rack? (Note: MSPPs require 2x 220VAC 30A AC breakers for a rectifier if no DC provided; M13s require 2x 110VAC 15A breakers; 7613s require 4x 220VAC 20A breakers, 2 A-side, 2 B-side) Where are the AC breaker panels located? AC Breaker Panel: Location of AC power panel ID

B10

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AC Power How close to the power supply will the new equipment be located? Does the power panel have adequate expansion capability? MSPPs require 2x 220VAC 30A Y N AC breakers for a rectifier if no DC provided; M13s require 2x 110VAC 15A Y N breakers; 7613s require 4x 220VAC 20A Y N breakers, 2 A-side, 2 B-side Note the following: Power Power Power Power # of available breaker Panel Panel Panel Panel positions ID ID ID ID Contact information if the site contracts out AC power work: Power Notes: Site Back Up Power Power Back Up DC Backup Power Are batteries used? Y N What is the Amp-hour capacity/ Can it support the new equipment? Do DC power feeds run to Y N the racks? If so, what gauge? AC Backup Power:: Is an UPS available? (Requires a minimum of 4 Hrs Y N back up time). Is an Generators available? (Requires a minimum of 4 Hrs Y N back up time) If Yes: What is the switch over time? What capacity? Can it support the new equipment? Contact information if the site contracts out AC power work. Notes: Ground
B11

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ground Are existing racks grounded? If Yes, how (gauge wire, color of wire, lugs)? What is the distance, gauge, and color to extend the Aisle Ground to the rack? Where is the Main Ground (Note termination on Bus)? What is the distance and cable path from main ground to racks? What lug is required for the ground bar? HVAC HVAC Can the existing HVAC support the new equipment? Y Notes: Timing Timing Source Is a timing source (BITS) available (Base Supplied or DISA Supplied)? What are the timing outputs? Cable path distance to/from the SDN equipment? (Identify location & cable path): Is there space available on the IO panel? (Obtain available port assignments) If Timing is Base-supplied: Manufacturer: Is the timing source Stratum1? Base and Carrier Demarcs Demarc Extension Y N N

Y

N

Y

N

Demarc Extension Is there a requirement to extend DS-1 circuits to the MDF/Base DS-1 Demarc? Y N Distance from SDN to DS-1 Demarc? (Note cable path) Termination Type: Type of patch panel/block required Site-provided? Y N If not, provide part number: Outside Plant OUTSIDE PLANT (OSP)
B12

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Where is the OSP fiber patch panel located? Fiber cable distance between FDP and OSP FDP? What connector types and fiber type are used? Identify available ports on OSP patch panel. Are fibers labeled properly? Y N Determine path between the node and the carrier demarc. Note all building, racks, and shelf numbers. DCN Suite Identify the specific location of existing Black DCN Suite. Existing DCN Suite Locations of Existing DCN Suites Juniper M7i Juniper M10i Node ID: Node ID: Bldg: Bldg: Room: Room: Rack: Rack: Shelf: Shelf: Black DCN Black DCN Node ID: Node ID: Bldg: Bldg: Room: Room: Rack: Rack: Shelf: Shelf: Floor type ­ Concrete Slab or Raised Floor? If raised floor: What is the height? Is floor shielded/tempest rated? Is the floor plenum rated? Is there anything under the floor that will prevent the installation of racks? If concrete slab: Are the tiles asbestos? Y N How thick is the floor? Juniper M7i or M10i Information Fill in the table below for each DCN Juniper Router located at this site. Juniper Configuration Equipment Juniper M7i Juniper M10i
B13

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Type of Card Installed Ports in Service Available Ports Black DCN Cisco 2611/2811 Information Fill in the table below for each DCN Cisco 2611/2811 located at this site. Cisco 2611/2811 Configuration Black DCN Equipment Cisco 2611XM Cisco 2811 Type of NM Module 32 Port 32 Port Ports in Service Available Ports Not cabled available ports: Are all ports on the cards cabled to the coupler panel? Yes No If No, explain: Black DCN Cisco 2950/2960 Information Fill in the table below for each DCN Cisco 2950/2960 located at this site. Cisco 2950/2960 Configuration Black DCN Number of Ports: Ports in Service: Ports Available: NOTES: 24 Port 48 Port

New DCN Suite If the current NIPR DCN suite does not have handle the NIPR routers, or if the distance the DCN suite is greater than 50 feet a new required. Does an N-PE DCN suite exist? Y N If Yes: Is the N-PE DCN within 50 feet of the NIPR? If No: Complete next two sections Proposed Location for New Black DCN Suite Phone Service for New Black DCN Suite Power for new Black DCN suite

enough ports to from the router to DCN suite will be

Y

N

Survey Existing Black DCN Equipment Cabling Cable route distance to each Router from Black DCN suite
B14

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

NE TYPE

Router Node ID

Distance (feet)

NIPR Node U-PE Push Key TAC IP Core Devices 9.0 Drawings Provide Visio Drawings Floor Plan (Existing): Proposed Floor Plan (if applicable): Ladder Rack/Fiber Guide Overview: Existing Rack Elevations (if applicable): Proposed Rack Elevations: Note: Proposed drawings should be delivered to government as part of the Site Survey Report.

B15

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Appendix C. DISN INSTALLATION QUICK REFERENCE CHECKLIST
Description 1. Verify that there is adequate HVAC. Reference: ASHRAE 90429 2. Inspect area under the raised floor or over a suspended ceiling to ensure there are no power runs or HVAC venting, making the space unusable. Reference: Chapter 1 3. Check that there is a minimum of 36" of space in front, rear and 24" on side if it is the end of a rack. Reference: Chapter 2 4. Ensure cable exits a conduit only through a connector or bushing, and not through the unprotected end of a conduit. Reference: Chapter 1 5. Lighting at wire closets or distribution frames shall be at least 50-foot candle. Reference: Chapter 1 6. Fiber carrying secure (RED) communication is to be incased in metallic conduits or ducting and separated from BLACK communication. Reference: Chapter 4 7. Cable ducts, ladders and trays are to be installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows. Reference: Chapter 1 8. The diameter of the ground cable at least 2000 cmil (1X10-6 M2) per running foot. The minimum gauge of a ground cable for frame is 6 AWG. Reference: Chapter 8 9. Resistance between equipment chassis or signal ground and respective ground bus is less than 5 milliohms. Reference: Chapter 8 10. The measured earth resistance of the earth electrode system of any DISN facility is less than 5 ohms, IAW the Fall-Of-Potential method. Reference: Chapter 8 11. Ensure all doors open and close properly. Reference: Chapter 1 12. Rack design and its electronic equipments are positioned for good thermal cooling, natural air convection, or forced air convection from internal fans. An infrared thermometer or thermal image camera does not detect hot-spots that would be detrimental to the operation rack's electronic equipment. Reference: Chapter 2 13. Separation of adjacent equipment within a rack is in accordance with engineering drawings and installation plan. Top and bottom interval spacing of at least 1.75 inches unless otherwise specified by the installation plan. Reference: Chapter 1 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 14. Slotted Channel is anchored directly to the flooring at intervals no greater than 2˝ feet (76cm). Reference: Chapter 2 15. All Slotted Channel is cut squarely. All exposed ends are finished with an end cap. Reference: Chapter 2 16. Threads on bolts, cap screws, machine screws, rods and similar threaded parts are engaged through to the final thread of the Slotted Channel (spring) nut. Reference: Chapter 2 17. Threaded rods are fastened to the Slotted Channel using a flat washer, lock washer and nut. Reference: Chapter 2 18. All bolts, nuts, and screws are tight. Reference: Chapter 2 19. All conduits are installed in accordance with engineering specifications and drawings called out in the installation plan. Reference: Chapter 2 20. All unused knockouts of raceways, electrical boxes and cabinets are closed or covered. Reference: Chapter 1 21. Conduits are placed so as not to block future cabling and equipment installations. Reference: Chapter 2 22. All conduits are grounded at their far ends. In cases where a conduit run exceeds 133 feet (40 meters) the conduit is grounded at least every 100 feet (30 meters) with 2 AWG stranded copper wire. Reference: Chapter 2 23. All conduit supports are the proper size, type and material for the application. They are installed correctly in accordance with engineering drawings and as specified by the installation plan. All conduits are bent to conform to the supporting structure. Reference: Chapter 2 24. Ducts and raceways are supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. Reference: Chapter 2 25. All ducts and raceways are installed plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45-degree elbows. Reference: Chapter 2 26. All duct and raceway fittings are assembled IAW manufacturer's instructions or as specified by the engineering drawings and installation plan. Reference: Chapter 2 27. The edges of wire access cutouts in ducts and raceways are covered with plastic grommet or other suitable protective material. Reference: Chapter 2 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C2

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 28. Ducting, raceways, and ladder racking are electrically continuous by bonding together all sections and covers. Associated brackets or hangers are electrically bonded to the ducting or raceway. Ducting and raceway are electrically bonded to the equipment frames that they feed through physically mating or by wide, flexible solid metallic bond straps. Reference: Chapter 2 29. Ducting, raceways and ladder racking are bonded to facility ground system with copper cable conforming to the 2000 cmil per foot (1X10-6 M2 per 30 cm) criteria. The bonding resistance between the ducting/raceway and the facility ground system is not to exceed 5 milli-ohms and is to be grounded not more than 2 feet (61 centimeters) from each end and every 50 feet (15 meters) along the length of the run. Ducts containing AC power wiring are connected to the protective ground in the AC distribution panel. Reference: Chapter 2 30. Duct, raceway, and ladder racking is squarely cut and deburred. The cut is positioned to allow for future expansion and installation of a coupling fitting. Wire is not to exit through the end cap of a duct or raceway unless the duct cannot be physically extended further in that direction. Reference: Chapter 2 31. Ensure fiber ducting is supported at least every 5 feet (1.5 meters) and within 2 feet (61 cm) of each end. The end of a fiber duct is secured where it enters a cabinet or extends to a rack. Reference: Chapter 2 32. All fiber ducting is plumb or level, except when changing elevations with 45 degree elbows. Reference: Chapter 2 33. All fiber duct fittings and supports are IAW the manufacturer's instructions or as specified by the installation plan. Reference: Chapter 2 34. The DISN facility is of a TYPE-1 or TYPE-2 construction; therefore its walls, fire walls, structural elements, arches, floors and roofs are of approved noncombustible or limited combustible material. Reference: Chapter 3 35. Membrane penetration for cables, cable trays, conduits, pipes, tubes, wires and similar items to accommodate electrical, mechanical and communication systems that pass through a membrane of a floor or wall or floor/ceiling assembly constructed as a fire barrier are protected by a firestop system or barrier. Reference: Chapter 3 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 36. Insulation of power cables installed in the ceiling plenum or below the raised floor meets the requirements of NFPA-70. Communication cables installed in ceiling spaces and under raised floors shall be plenum rated or installed in metallic conduits in accordance with NFPA 70. Reference: Chapter 3 38. All shielded cables and wires carrying signals of frequencies less than 30 kilohertz or of data rates of less than 30 KBPS are grounded at one end only unless directed otherwise by the installation plan, SID equipment or manufacturer's installation instructions. Reference: Chapter 8 39. All shielded cables and wires carrying signals of frequencies greater than 30 kilohertz or of data rates greater than 30 KBPS are ground at both ends unless directed otherwise by the installation plan, SID equipment or manufacturer's installation instructions. Reference: Chapter 8 40. Modular connectors are of the proper size and type for the cable being terminated. The connectors' strain relief engages the cable sheath. The conductors are pushed completely into the connector so that the connector's contacts fully engage the cable's conductors. Reference: Chapter 4 41. Fiber optic cables are segregated from other types of cables and are installed in separate cable raceways or in fiber management system such as fiber ducting. Reference: Chapter 4 42. Light guide cables conveying secure (RED) information or data are encased in a metallic conduit or secure ducting. Reference: Chapter 4 43. Light guide cables are routed loose without restraints. Only Velcro cable straps or similar soft cabling strapping are to be used for securing fiber optic cables. Reference: Chapter 4 44. Fiber optic cable is not bundled or fastened too tightly as to cause damage or deform the cable. Nylon cable ties are not for banding or securing fiber optic cables. Reference: Chapter 4 45. The bend radius of 2 to 4 fiber cables intended use for horizontal or centralized cabling is greater than 25 mm (1 in.) under no-load conditions. Reference: Chapter 4 46. When fiber cables are not subjected to a tensile load, inside plant cables shall support a bend radius of 10 times the cable outside the diameter. Reference: Chapter 4 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 47. When fiber cables are subjected to a tensile load, inside plant cables shall support a bend radius of 15 times the cable outside diameter. Reference: Chapter 4 48. Fiber optic cables are installed with no kinks, surface damage or any other deformity. Reference: Chapter 4 49. Excess cable is coiled into a light guide cable storage device. Reference: Chapter 4 50. Fiber optic cable connectors are protected with a cover when the cable assembly is run. Reference: Chapter 4 51. Fiber optic cables that pass through areas used for the circulation of air in a building, such as ducting, raisedfloors and suspended ceilings, are plenum rated. Reference: Chapter 3 52. All fiber optic cables were tested in accordance with the test section of the installation plan or in accordance with the test procedures and standards as directed or approved by the NS6. Reference: Chapter 4 53. The installed fiber optic cables are tested IAW the approved test plan. The test plan includes test procedures and pass and fail test criteria for each different type of fiber cable installed. Reference: Chapter 4 54. The link attenuation for a multimode horizontal optical fiber cabling system is less than the manufacturer specified loss for 90 meters of the fiber optic cable used. Reference: Chapter 4 55. The horizontal link tested has attenuation of less than 2.0 dB. Reference: Chapter 4 56. The attenuation of a horizontal link in an open office-cabling network with a consolidation point is less than 4.1 dB. Reference: Chapter 4 57. Nylon cable ties' tensions are tight enough to hold the wires securely together and/or properly positioned, but not so tightly or at such angles as to cause possible damage to the insulation of the wires or cables. Reference: Chapter 4 58. The nylon cable ties banded around wires and cables can be rotated with slight to moderate pressure applied with the thumb to the head of the tie. Reference: Chapter 4 59. The permanent use of nylon cable ties is permissible above or below raised access floors in installations. Reference: Chapter 4 60. Power cables distributing NEGATIVE DC voltage are BLACK. WHITE or RED colored power cables distribute POSITIVE DC voltages. Power cables whose gauge PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description is 1/0 AWG or greater are marked with their respective voltage and polarity symbols at their ends. Reference: Chapter 6 61. AC and DC power cabling do not run in the same raceway. Maintain separation distances between power cables and twisted pair copper cables. Reference: Chapter 2 62. Power cables 1/0 (53.4 mm2) or smaller do not exceed a maximum unsupported distance of 2 feet (0.6M). Reference: Chapter 2 63. Power cables 1/0 (53.4 mm2) or larger do not exceed a maximum unsupported distance of 3 feet (9.1M). Reference: Chapter 2 64. Power cables are not laid or run across the surface of a floor. Reference: Chapter 2 65. The facility's lightning protection system is bonded to its earth electrode subsystem. Reference: Chapter 8 66. AC power service in equipment racks is designated with name, number, voltage and type of service. Reference: Chapter 6 67. All AC outlets and light switches are designated with the location of the power source and circuit breaker number or inverter frame location. Reference: Chapter 6 68. Rack/cabinet bus bars are copper and have a minimum dimension of 12 inches by 1 inch by 1/8 inch (3 mm), unless otherwise specified in the installation plan or SID. Reference: Chapter 6 69. Equipment chassis or signal grounds are grounded to the respective bus bar with copper wire of 16 AWG or larger, less than 3-foot in length. Reference: Chapter 8 70. Termination of ground wire on a copper bus: Connector is mounted directly onto the copper bus bar. A copper alloy or flat washer is placed on the opposite side of the connector followed by a copper alloy lock washer. The hardware is held in place by a copper alloy threaded fastener. Cover the connection with an anti-corrosive. Reference: Chapter 8 71. The Bond resistance between ground wire connectors and equipment chassis or ground bus is to be less than 1 milliohm. Resistance between equipment chassis or signal ground and respective ground bus is to be less than 5 milliohms. Reference: Chapter 8 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C6

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 72. All fuses and circuit breakers comply with the general requirements for over current protection and over current protective devices are not more than 600 volts, as specified in Article 240, Parts I through VII, of the National Electric Code.Reference: Chapter 7 73. Cartridge type fuses are to have the ferrules and blades of the holder coated with a thin coat of conductive anti-corrosion compound. Reference: Chapter 7 74. All 4 ground subsystems are to meet or exceed the specifications of MIL-STD188-124 and the guidelines MIL-HDBK419A. Reference: Chapter 8 75. Was a visual inspection of the facility's Earth Electrode Subsystem conducted before it was covered with backfill? Visually inspect all joints and connections. Check mechanical integrity to verify the absence of voids or other indications of poor bonding, and to verify that all required interconnections are made. Reference: Chapter 8 76. The case and ground reference of an exterior transformer is connected with 1/0 AWG or larger gauge wire to a 3meter ground which is in turn bonded to the earth electrode subsystem. Reference: Chapter 8 77. All bonds in concealed locations are to be brazed or welded. Any bonds between dissimilar metals, such as between a copper wire and cast iron or steel pipe, are thoroughly sealed against moisture to minimize corrosion. Bolted clamp connections are to be made only in manholes or in grounding wells. Reference: Chapter 8 78. Records show that the measured earth resistance of each individual ground rod before the interconnection to the other rods is acceptable. Ideally, the earth resistance of an individually ground rod should not exceed 350 ohms. Reference: Chapter 8 79. Fault protection ground wires are not used to conduct normal load currents. They are used only to conduct line to ground fault currents. Reference: Chapter 8 80. All single-phase electric power receptacles are three wires, including a safety ground, neutral and phase. Reference: Chapter 7 81. A single-phase electric power receptacle's phase-to-neutral voltage will range from 108 to 125 VAC and ground-to-neutral voltage is less than 2 VAC. Reference: Chapter 8 82. Current on a fault protection ground wire does not exceed 1 amp. Reference: Chapter 8 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C7

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Description 83. Verify that the equipment safety grounding conductors are green. Reference: Chapter 8 84. The neutral is not connected to the chassis or frame of the equipment. Reference: Chapter 8 85. Isolation of the neutral conductor can be established by the test described in the inspection procedures. Reference: Chapter 8 86. Is the resistance of the neutral greater than 10 ohms. Reference: Chapter 8 87. If the new facility is a steel framed building, all structural steel members of the building such as the building's columns, wall frames, roof trusses, etc. are to be electrically bonded together using welding, brazing, soldering and/or high­compression bolted connections. Reference: Chapter 8 88. Equipment racks, electrical supporting structures, and utility pipes are conductively connected to the structural steel of the building or to the copper grid of the equipotential plane with #6 AWG or larger gauge copper wire. Reference: Chapter 8 89. The chassis of rack mounted equipment is connected to the rack's signal ground bus bar or metallic plate mounting flanges. Equipment racks, ground bus or metallic plated mounting flanges are connected to the equipotential plane. Reference: Chapter 8 90. Ground leads are identified at all common ground points, such as at the Station Ground Bar (SGB) or Telecommunications Master Ground Bus bar. Reference: Chapter 7 PASS FAIL N/A Comments

C8

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Consolidated Label Samples C6.4 Rack and Cabinet Labeling Requirements C6.4 Label the FDP front and back within the rack, with the position location Example - SH 01, 02, 03, etc... RU 30-34, 25-29, etc

FDP Labeling Example Figure C6.4.1

Equipment in Shelf Figure C6.4.2

C6.5 Rack and Cabinet Labeling Requirements C6.5 Label the FDP front and back within the rack, with the position location Example - SH 01, 02, 03, etc... RU 30-34, 25-29, etc

FDP Labeling Example Figure C6.4.1

Equipment in Shelf Figure C6.4.2

C6.5.8.5 Labels will consist of three lines maximum per port Example: UMSWXXX010 RR110 2-14 SL13-P 10 TX

C9

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6.5.8.6 Open the cover card to reveal the reverse side. This is where the CCSD/CKT ID will be labeled. Use P-Touch labeler at 4mm height for these labels and label each port associated with circuit. Example 1234

FDP Information Cover Labeling Examples

FDP label facing fiber connections when door is closed Figure C6.5.8.1

FDP CCSD label facing out when door is closed Figure C6.5.8.2

C10

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Fiber Optic Labeling Examples

Figure C6.5.8.3

C11

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C12

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Correctly labeled Sycamore SN9K DS3 cables Figure C6.6.2 C6.7.7 The information on each label will consist of the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Equipment Identifier Equipment Type Rack Shelf Voltage

C13

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AC Power Labeling Examples

AC Power Strip to AC Breaker Panel Figure C6.7.1

Equipment to AC Power Strip via an AC Receptacle. Figure C6.7.2

C6.10.3 The information on the opposite side of each label shall consist of the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Designation (FAP) Rack number Position (A1, A BATT, -48VDC, etc) Load designation and Voltage

C14

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DC RECT RR 1099 BRKR 2 60A A LOAD ­48VDC

DC RECT RR 1099 RTN BUS A LOAD

DC RECT RR 1099 BRKR 2 60A B LOAD ­48VDC

DC RECT RR 1099 RTN BUS B LOAD

FAP RR 1103 RU42 A1 BATT A LOAD­48VDC

FAP 1103 RR 1103 RU42 A1 RTN A LOAD

FAP RR 1103 RU42 A1 BATT B LOAD­48VDC

FAP 1103 RR 1103 RU42 A1 RTN B LOAD

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 1 BATT A ­48VDC

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 1 RTN A SIDE RTN

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 BRKR 2 60A B SIDE ­48VDC

UMSWXXX010 RR 1103 RU2-14 RTN BUS B SIDE RTN

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 30A A SIDE ­48VDC

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 A SIDE RTN

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 30A B SIDE ­48VDC

FAP TPA RR 1103 RU42 POS 1 B SIDE RTN

Figure C6.10.1

FAP Information Card Figure C6.11.1

C15

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Appendix D. DISN IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1. PROJECT INFORMATION: Start Date: PCN#: Site Name: Installer/FE: Task Order: TO 26 select 1 TO 43 EI SIT Labor Hours: A. Type of Completion Report: Installation Ckt Activation

TO 36 TO 44

Completion Date: Incomplete Code: Project Name: Installer/FE Phone: Travel Authorization #: Site POC: POC Contact Information:

Ship Only

De-installation Ckt De-activation

Tech Assist Testing

Other: Other:

Transition B. IP:

Technologies (Check as many as apply): SIPR NIPR DCN ATM M13/MSPP ODXC

ECOS OTS

KIV Promina

Other: Other:

Transport:

2. CUSTOMER TASKING: (Add any additional tasks as required) Work ID Description ACRN

BR

Labor Hrs

Open/Closed

3. INSTALLER COMMENTS/ISSUES ENCOUNTERED/ACTION ITEMS: POSITIVE: DAILY STATUS UPDATES: DESCRIPTION OF ISSUE: BRIEFED TO NOC CONTACT: TIME/DATE: RESOLUTION:

4. LIST OF ADDITIONAL REQUIRED MATERIALS: Manufacturer Part # Description

Qty

5. IT&A / GNSC ACCEPTANCE: (If applicable otherwise enter N/A) Name: Phone: 6. EQUIPMENT SHIPPED: (DD Form 1149) GFE Release#/ Tracking# Requisition# N/A Mfr. Part # Description Discrepancies: 7. MATERIAL/EQUIPMENT INSTALLED (I) /DE-INSTALLED (D): Mfr. Part # Description Qty Serial# Barcode Installed or DeInstalled

Date Shipped

Verified Receipt with POC / Date

Qty

Serial#

Barcode

Remarks

D1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Mfr. Part # Description Qty Serial# Barcode Installed or DeInstalled

8. MATERIAL/EQUIPMENT RETURNED TO WAREHOUSE: Mfr. Part # Description

Qty

Serial#

Barcode

9. MATERIAL/EQUIPMENT DE-INSTALLED/EXCESS NOT RETURNED TO WAREHOUSE: Mfr. Part # Description Qty Serial#

Barcode

Disposition/ Return Date

10.

SHIPPING DISCREPANCIES:

11.

SITE CONDITION(S)/RECOMMENDATION(S):

D2

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
12. DETAILED MATERIAL/EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION / DE- INSTALLATION RECORD:

Item number

Catalog Name and/or Description of Item

MFR and/or Vendor name

MFR Part number

Rack Number

Stock Number

Serial Number QTY

Location of Asset

MFR Year

Cage Code

Bar Code

Disp.

UIC

Remarks

D3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

RACK ELEVATION DRAWING

D4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Approval of Work Performed
Your signature constitutes your approval of this implementation.

Installation Team POC: ________________________________________

Installation verified/approved by: ____________________________ Site departure approval from: _________________________________

Name: ___________________ [signature] _________________________

Rank/Title:_________________________ Phone #:_______________________ Date:_________________

Site POC: Name: _____________________[signature] _______________________

Rank/Title:__________________________ Phone #:_______________________ Date:_________________

D5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY QASP OTN Enhancement Page 1 of 3

Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
1. Contract Title: DISN Optical Network Enhancement Link 38 2. Work Requirements: The Performance Work Statement (PWS) defines requirements for the Contractor to provide dark fiber, equipment, and commercial facilities to support Department of Defense (DOD) users in the Continental United States (CONUS). The PWS further defines requirements for the Contractor to install, integrate, and test Optical Line Amplifier (OLA), Junction, and service delivery node (SDN), equipment and provide Operations and Maintenance (O&M) support in commercial fiber facilities. In addition, the PWS defines the requirements for the Contractor to provide end-to-end transmission and professional support services to include, but not limited to, Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) diversity and resiliency capabilities, system integration, and system upgrades. 3. Primary Method of Surveillance: The Government primary method of surveillance for all tasks within the PWS shall be:  100 Percent Inspection. This is usually only the most appropriate method for infrequent tasks or tasks with stringent performance requirements, e.g., where safety or health is a concern. With this method, performance is inspected/evaluated at each occurrence. One hundred percent inspection is too expensive to be used in most cases.  Periodic Inspection: These services are monitored weekly, monthly, quarterly, semiannually, annually, etc. Intermittent types of activities are perfect for periodic inspection because not only are they infrequent, but there is normally a predetermined, specified time frame within which the tasks must be accomplished. Therefore, you know exactly when to conduct the evaluations. Periodic inspections automatically become 100 percent evaluations or "100 percent checks." Inspections should be divided and scheduled by frequency: annual, semiannual, quarterly, monthly, weekly and as required. Sometimes services are required for which the time or frequency cannot be predicted, such as accident investigations, one-time special tasking by higher headquarters, etc. These would be labeled "as required inspections." Others are known and predictable, such as the quarterly status report or the monthly travel report currently included in some DISA service contracts.  Customer Input. Although usually not a primary method, this is a valuable supplement to more systematic methods. For example, in a case where random sampling indicates unsatisfactory service, customer complaints can be used as substantiating evidence. In certain situations where customers can be relied upon to complain consistently when the quality of performance is poor, e.g., dining facilities, building services, customer surveys and customer complaints may be a primary surveillance method, and customer satisfaction an appropriate performance standard. In all cases, complaints should be documented, preferably on a standard form. 4. Scope of Performance: The scope of this contract includes all services and supplies necessary to perform the objective, to include programmatic, engineering, and other technical services and the procurement of all necessary equipment and components.

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY QASP OTN Upgrade Page 2 of 3

5. Performance Standards: The Contractor shall adhere adhere to all prevailing telecommunications industry standards during the execution of the PWS. Performance Standard Deliverables are submitted on time and the Contractor manages performance of the overall requirement in accordance with the Project Schedule. Contractor ensures performance of all tasks meet the requirements of the PWS and standard DISA requirements (e.g TSRs, SCLs). Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) Deliverables contain required information and are delivered on time at least 90% of the time. Revisions that occur are minor and are resolved in a satisfactory manner. Schedules and provided implementation plans are accurate 90% of the time. Issues that occur are minor and are resolved in a satisfactory manner. All installation will be of the same quality as similar equipment in the same facility Random inspection of installations will be conducted. Method of Surveillance Random inspection of deliverable products and services.

OLA installations will conform to accepted Telecom practice for other installations in contractor facilities Testing and test data will meet manufactures requirements to ensure the equipment functions as designed System integration will be acceptable when the link passes the 72 hour Bit Error Rate (BER) test with no errors

All test data will be provided to the government engineering team and GNSC for review and historical records. All test data will be provided to the government engineering team and GNSC for review prior to any service being activated.

The Government will perform random review of the test data to ensure it complies with equipment manufactures requirements. 100% inspection of and acceptance of all test data prior to any service activation.

6. Mandatory or regulatory compliance items: The Contracting Officer Representative will monitor compliance as required by clause 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons, and report any issues to the Contracting Officer. 7. Acceptable Quality Level (AQL): The Contractor must deliver the enhancement as specified by the Government, and all equipment must function in accordance with its intended purpose to produce an overall effective communications system. The AQLs for this project are stated in paragraph 5.
UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY QASP OTN Upgrade Page 3 of 3

8. Evaluation Method: The Government shall use the monitoring methods cited to determine whether the performance standards/service level/AQLs have been met. If the Contractor has not met the minimum requirements, the Contractor may be asked to develop a corrective action plan to show how and by what date the Contractor intends to bring performance up to the required levels. 9. Incentives (Positive and/or Negative): If performance standards are not met, the Contracting Officer may seek any remedy available under the terms and conditions of the contract. If response and/or repair times for fiber/equipment failure are longer than required by the PWS, the Contractor shall grant the Government a maintenance credit as specified in the Outage Clause of Section H.

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

1/26/2015
CONTRACT DELIVERABLE REQUIREMENTS LIST (CDRL)

Item # 001

PWS Sec. 6.1.1

Deliverable Title Initial Project Review

Format ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products

Due Date 30 days after authorization

Distribution/ Copies Standard Distribution*

Frequency and Remarks As required

002

6.1.1

IPR Meeting Minutes

5 days after meeting

Standard Distribution*

As required

003

6.1.1

Monthly Progress Report

25th of each month

Standard Distribution*

Monthly

004

6.1.2

Comprehensive Implementation Plan

005

6.1.2. 4

Project Schedule

006

6.2

Fiber Test Plans and Procures

007

6.2

Fiber Test Results

008

6.3

Engineering Design Packages

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Draft 15 days after modification to network is identified and final no later than 30 days after Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award Within 10 days after test completion

Standard Distribution*

As required

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes Updates provided 30 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes One-time

Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

009

6.3

As-Built Drawings

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF

Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed

1/26/2015
formats site install changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided within 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided within 10 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Update as required.

010

6.3.1

OLA and SDN Test Data

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Provided within 10 days after testing

Standard Distribution*

011

6.4

Network Acceptance Test Results

Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Provided within 10 days after testing

Standard Distribution*

012

6.5.4

OLA Configurations and Equipment Design Detailed Fiber Map

013

6.5.6. 7

014

6.6.1

Environmental Assessments

015

6.6.3. 2

Site Survey Documentation

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. Adobe PDF and CAD Formats. ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products. Executive summary max limit of 2 pages. and total page count not to exceed 10 pages ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products Contractor shall deliver utilizing Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF formats

Draft with proposal, final 30 days after award. Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Update as required.

016

6.6.3. 6

Fiber As-Built Drawings

Draft 30 days after identification of need for repair/replace ment for each site requiring trenching and final no later than 60 days after Draft 10 days after conclusion of site survey and final 30 days after Draft with proposal, final within 30 days after site install

Standard Distribution*

As required.

Standard Distribution*

As required.

Standard Distribution*

017

6.7

Maintenance Plan

ContractorDetermined

Draft with proposal,

Standard Distribution*

Updates provided 20 days after plan is changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. Updates provided 20 days after plan is

1/26/2015
format utilizing Microsoft Office products final 30 days after award changed. Contract must submit any proposed changes for Government review prior to updating. As required.

018

6.9.3

Escalation Procedures and Contacts

ContractorDetermined format utilizing Microsoft Office products

Within 15 Days of Award.

Standard Distribution*


CLIN Base Period OP1 OP2 OP3 OP4 OP5 OP6 OP7 OP8 OP9 6 Month Option
0001 Labor (Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Non-Recurring Charge (NRC))
0002 Equipment (FFP NRC)
0003 Shipping (FFP NRC)
0004 Travel (FFP NRC)
0005 Warranty (FFP NRC)
0006 Miscellaneous Installation Related Material (IRM) (FFP NRC)
0007 Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) Fiber (FFP NRC)
0008 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) (FFP Monthly Recurring Charge (MRC))
O&M Annual Total (MRC*12)
subtotal Total evaluated price
Mission Essential Services The Government has identified specific contractor services performed under this contract as essential contractor services in support of mission essential functions. These services are listed below: Task Area - 3: Operation and Maintenance and Sustainment services for fiber and associated assets The Contractor shall provide and perform all the requirements necessary for sustainment of all IRU assets and associated co-location facilities and equipment. This entails, but may not be limited to, backbone fiber, associated co-location facilities, and end-to-end transmission for (SDNs) including GFE equipment within commercial and Government facilities. 6.1 Maintenance Plan Contractor shall provide, operate, and maintain the dark fiber and facilities, and repair the fiber during the life of the contract by providing support for 24 hours, 7 days a week, and 365 days a year. The overall system availability shall be 99.9% calculated monthly. The Contractor will continue to provide O&M support for amplifiers, regenerators, and terminal equipment. When a fiber optic cable failure (e.g., cable cut) occurs, the following response and repair times in Table 6.7 shall be met.
Table 6.7 Response and Repair Time for Fiber Failure Fiber Path Response Time Repair Time1 Terrestrial/Aerial 2 hours 8 hours 1 Indicates maximum Response time after notification by GNSC. 2 Indicates maximum Restore time. Restore time starts once personnel arrive on-site.

The Contractor shall provide a Maintenance Plan that details its fiber operations and maintenance approach, process, and procedures to meet the requirements of this PWS. The Contractor shall submit any proposed changes to the Government for review and concurrence prior to updating the Maintenance Plan. As part of the Maintenance Plan, the Contractor shall provide a process, subject to Government approval, to notify the Government via a web based tool, telephone, FAX, etc. within 10 minutes of the time the fiber failure is discovered. 6.16.2 OLA Maintenance The Contractor shall provide maintenance of the OLA equipment in Contractor facilities for the life of the contract. The Contractor's Maintenance Plan shall outline its plan to provide two (2) types of maintenance support; Corrective and Preventative. In addition, the plan shall include a section on spare equipment management, where the Contractor shall describe how much spare equipment will be required and managed for maintenance purposes based on, but not limited to, the equipment manufacturer's failure rate Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF), the response and repair times, and the Contractor's field

experience. The Government will provide the spares as GFE. Corrective and Preventative maintenance requirements are described as follows: Corrective maintenance ­ The OLA equipment located at the Contractor facilities will be managed and controlled by the Government. The Contractor shall have no active or passive monitoring capability of the equipment. Therefore, the Government, through the Global NetOps Support Center (GNSC), will notify the Contractor of corrective maintenance action needed. The Contractor shall maintain and repair equipment during the life of the contract by providing support 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, and 365 days per year. The Contractor shall respond to equipment failures after notification by the GNSC in accordance with the schedule in Table 6.8. Upon completion, the Contractor shall provide a brief report to the GNSC describing the fault and the remedy taken for each event, both telephonically and electronically. Preventive maintenance ­ The Contractor shall outline in the Maintenance Plan how it will provide preventative maintenance of OLA equipment in accordance with the equipment vendor's specifications (i.e., MTBF). The Contractor shall notify the GNSC at least twenty-one (21) working days in advance of preventative maintenance and any potential down time of equipment. Table 6.8 Response and Repair Time for OLA Equipment Failure Event Response Time1 Restore Time2 Co-location OLA 2 hours 8 hours Equipment 1 Indicates maximum Response time after notification by GNSC. 2 Indicates maximum Restore time. Restore time starts once personnel arrive on-site.

DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY (DISA) NETWORK SERVICES CLASS JUSTIFICATION AND APPROVAL (J&A) FOR AN EXCEPTION TO FAIR OPPORTUNITY Justification Number: JA11-107 JUSTIFICATION 1. REQUIRING AGENCY AND CONTRACTING ACTIVITY: The requiring activity for this procurement is: DISA Network Services Directorate (NS) Ft. Meade, MD 20755-0549 The contracting activity is: DISA Defense Information Technology Contracting Organization (DITCO), PL832 Scott Air Force Base, IL 62225-5406 2. NATURE/DESCRIPTION OF ACTION(S): a. The Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) is the core global enterprise network of the United States military, comprising Department of Defense (DoD) owned and leased telecommunications networks, subsystems, and operations support. The President, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the military departments, defense agencies, combatant commanders, operating forces, and coalition partners all depend on the DISN for secure and sensitive voice, data, video, and bandwidth services. As part of the Global Information Grid (GIG), the DISN provides critical functionality for the warfighters and all those who support them. b. The DISN supports transmission of voice, data, imagery, and video at all security classification levels. The secure network supports flexible and rapid provisioning, and is easily extended and capable of accepting future technology insertions. It provides seamless interfaces to commercial networks to support increased highly secure traffic during surge and contingency conditions. It is capable of rapid restoration in order to minimize the necessity for independent/stand-alone operations. The network employs appropriate Information Assurance (IA) and security measures to address known threats. These measures have been implemented to protect mission data and safeguard system resources and information to ensure system availability in all conflict/threat scenarios. Using the DoD IA Strategy and available information security techniques and tools, the network supports information transfer at all classification levels, and is in accordance with governing security guidelines. 1

c. The military services and agencies in the DoD are authorized users of the DISN. The DISN is the backbone of the military's massive information network and a vital link in meeting DoD's net-centricity goals. d. This Class Justification & Approval (J&A) is for acquisition of equipment, both major and minor, and software incidental to that hardware to efficiently manage and maintain the current and approved DISN configuration. Examples of major equipment items are: provider edge and core routers, optical networking equipment, Synchronous Optical Network switching gear, and fiber. Examples of minor equipment items are: peripherals, network equipment, storage devices, security tools, and other Information Technology products. These products are necessary to maintain and sustain an existing operational infrastructure, replace end-of-life products to current supported versions, and preserve the approved and Joint Interoperability Test Command certified configuration baseline. e. The baseline products have been tested and certified in accordance with the DISN Test and Evaluation Strategy. They meet the requirements of the DISN system characteristics found in Appendix A, as well as interoperability requirements, IA requirements, and net ready requirements. Once certified, the products are added to the Approved Products List (APL) in Appendix B. The test process and the APL maintain the operational baseline of the DISN. They ensure every equipment item and software program that gets installed on the DISN will not cause degradation in performance. The current APL contains over 6,000 items with a large variety of brands and manufacturers. f. For each piece of network equipment, several manufacturers might be in competition. This Class J&A limits the competition to those products listed in the APL. The manufacturers identified in the APL obtain a Government sponsor and apply to have their items tested and added to the APL at any time. g. This class J&A is intended to cover DISN equipment requirements from the estimated approval date of 01 June 2012 to 30 September 2015. The contracts/orders will be firm-fixed price. The anticipated total estimated cost of the proposed acquisitions is $286M, broken down as follows: FY12 $46,808,200 FY13 $97,629,110 FY14 $94,313,974 FY15 $46,808,200 Total $285,559,484

Total estimated budget is based on FY12-15 Technical Refresh (TR) plan in addition to equipment for customer funded projects. The projections are an assessment of current and future requirements for DISN equipment. h. This Class J&A for FY12-15 will allow DISA to efficiently continue to manage and maintain the current and approved DISN configuration by procuring spares for existing equipment and deploying identical configurations of equipment previously competed to satisfy duplicate requirements for DISN services.

2

i. After Fiscal Year 2015, it is anticipated there will be efforts toward an Enterprise Infrastructure in accordance with the DISA Campaign Plan 2010. The Enterprise Infrastructure will provide tailored processes for faster procurement of equipment, services, and applications. 3. DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES: The equipment to be acquired under this Class J&A is identified in the APL, Appendix B. The equipment consists of the same makes and models currently used in the DISN and has been tested and certified for DISN interoperability, IA and security, integration, functional and operational requirements, and was implemented as part of various openly competed DISN programs. Some of the items the APL covers are: personal computers, servers, workstations, Internet Protocol networking equipment such as routers, communications servers, two layer switches, Optical Transport Systems, Optical Digital Cross-Connects, Multi-Service Provisioning Platforms, multiplexers, Asynchronous Transfer Mode voice and circuit switches, operations support systems, software, warranties, maintenance, security hardware and software such as firewalls, Network Intrusion Detection Systems, Host Intrusion Detection Systems, Virtual Private Network concentrators, compliance, and auditing and remediation tools. 4. IDENTIFICATION OF STATUTORY AUTHORITY and DEMONSTRATION OF CONTRACTOR'S UNIQUE QUALIFICATIONS: a. The authority for this action is 10 U.S.C.§2304c(b)(1) and (2) and FAR 16.505(b)(2)(i)(A) and (B). b. DISA requires the use of the unique and highly specialized items on the APL because they have been tested and certified for DISN interoperability. They are currently operating on the DISN and are part of the baseline configuration. The equipment and incidental software on the APL meets requirements for minimum acceptable performance as determined through functional and performance testing processes. c. This contracting action is necessary to ensure the continuation of telecommunications services that support the CONUS and OCONUS sustaining base information infrastructure and allows its rapid extension to deployed military forces anywhere in the world. This will enable the DISN to continue providing the necessary communications services to the warfighter and other customers without any interruption. d. Permitting the purchase of equipment/software for the DISN separately rather than from the APL would result in significant additional cost, resources, and schedule slippages to the Government. For each purchase of hardware not included in the APL, the Government would need to perform new certification testing to include equipment integration evaluation, interoperability certification, functional testing, operational testing and evaluation, IA and/or security testing, acceptance testing, and perhaps further development with the new equipment prior to any DISN approval. It is estimated that for each buy, an additional lead time of 180 days would be required. DISN Operators at the NetOps centers would have to be trained to introduce new vendor equipment into the DISN. The overall operational impact of introducing new vendor items into the architecture would be significant and affect Readiness, Operations and 3

Maintenance, Configuration Management and NetOps of the DISN. Additionally, permanent lab assets would have to be added/resourced for Tier III Ops support in troubleshooting, and support for future software patch and IA Vulnerability Alert testing. e. The addition of non-tested items would require vendor-specific, network management software to be deployed to manage and control the new non-brand name asset. This would require additional servers, training, and additional operators at the NetOps Centers as well. f. Finally, equipment and incidental software to the hardware being inserted in the network without having gone through the functional and performance testing processes would introduce unacceptable levels of risk with interoperability, IA capability, configuration management, and other technical performance parameters. g. For the above reasons, limiting fair opportunity to those items on the APL is justified because (1) the agency's need for these items is of such unusual urgency that providing opportunity to any items not on the APL would result in unacceptable delays in fulfilling that need; and (2) only the contractors with items on the APL are capable of providing the items required at the level of quality required because these items are unique or highly specialized.

END OF REDACTED J&A

4




Section B - Supplies or Services and Prices



|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0001           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Labor                                                                                                 |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Labor necessary to implement and deliver the requirements as specified in the PWS and associated      |                                       |
|               |documents                                                                                             |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Equipment                                                                                             |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Equipment necessary to implement and deliver the requirements as specified in the PWS and associated  |                                       |
|               |documents                                                                                             |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Shipping                                                                                              |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Shipping of any equipment or material necessary to implement and deliver the requirements as specified|                                       |
|               |in the PWS and associated documents                                                                   |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Travel                                                                                                |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Travel necessary to implement and deliver the requirements as specified in the PWS and associated     |                                       |
|               |documents                                                                                             |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Warranty                                                                                              |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Three year equipment warranty in accordance with the PWS                                              |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0006           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Misc Installation Related Material                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Miscellaneous Installation Related Material (IRM) necessary to implement and deliver the requirements |                                       |
|               |as specified in the PWS and associated documents                                                      |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0007           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) Fiber                                                                 |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Two IRU fiber strands connecting the locations specified in the PWS for a period of 10 years          |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|               |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|4008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |








|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|5008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |








|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|6008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |








|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|7008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |








|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|8008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |








|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|9008           |                               |12                   |Months          |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |O&M of the fiber and equipment as specified in the PWS and associated documents                       |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |




Section C - Descriptions and Specifications

SECTION C
PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

A comprehensive Performance Work Statement (PWS) is provided in Section J, Attachment J1 and incorporated by reference in this Section C.
Section E - Inspection and Acceptance




INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE TERMS

Supplies/services will be inspected/accepted at:

|CLIN      |INSPECT AT                                  |INSPECT BY           |ACCEPT AT                                   |ACCEPT BY            |
|0001      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0002      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0003      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0004      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0005      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0006      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0007      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|0008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|1008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|2008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|3008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|4008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|5008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|6008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|7008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|8008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |
|9008      |Destination                                 |Government           |Destination                                 |Government           |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.246-16               |Responsibility For Supplies                                               |APR 1984         |                       |
|252.246-7000            |Material Inspection And Receiving Report                                  |MAR 2008         |                       |
Section F - Deliveries or Performance

CLIN PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE
The periods of performance of the CLINs are based upon an estimated award date and an estimated delivery schedule of eight months.  The actual
periods of performance of the CLINS in the contract may differ from the periods of performance of the CLINS in the RFP.






DELIVERY INFORMATION

|CLIN      |DELIVERY DATE                    |QUANTITY               |SHIP TO ADDRESS                                         |UIC           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0001      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0002      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0003      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0004      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0005      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0006      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0007      |02-MAR-2016                      |1                      |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |                                 |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0008      |POP 02-MAR-2016 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2017                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1008      |POP 02-MAR-2017 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2018                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2008      |POP 02-MAR-2018 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2019                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3008      |POP 02-MAR-2019 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2020                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|4008      |POP 02-MAR-2020 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2021                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|5008      |POP 02-MAR-2021 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2022                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|6008      |POP 02-MAR-2022 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2023                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|7008      |POP 02-MAR-2023 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2024                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|8008      |POP 02-MAR-2024 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2025                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|9008      |POP 02-MAR-2025 TO               |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |              |
|          |01-MAR-2026                      |                       |FOB:  Destination                                       |              |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.211-17               |Delivery of Excess Quantities                                             |SEP 1989         |                       |
|52.242-15               |Stop-Work Order                                                           |AUG 1989         |                       |
|52.242-17               |Government Delay Of Work                                                  |APR 1984         |                       |
|52.247-34               |F.O.B. Destination                                                        |NOV 1991         |                       |
|52.247-55               |F.O.B. Point For Delivery Of Government-Furnished Property                |JUN 2003         |                       |
Section G - Contract Administration Data

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT



52.204-9000 Points of Contact

As prescribed in 4.103(S-90), insert the following clause:

                                                           POINTS OF CONTACT (AUG 2005)

Contracting Officer (KO)
Name:  Nicholas S. Friederich
Organization/Office Symbol:  PL8224
Phone No.:  (618) 229-9227
E-Mail Address:  nicholas.s.friederich.civ@mail.mil

Contract Specialist
Name:  Brittney Meyer
Organization/Office Symbol:  PL8224
Phone No.:  (618) 229-9416
E-Mail Address:  brittney.m.meyer.civ@mail.mil

COR/Mission Partner Point of Contact (Note: To be filled in upon contract award)
Name:
Organization/Office Symbol:
Phone No.:
E-Mail Address:

Contractor Point of Contact
Contractor Legal Business Name:
DUNS:
CAGE CODE:
Contractor POC:
E-Mail Address:
Phone Number:
Fax Number:

                                                                 (End of clause)





52.232-9002  ELECTRONIC INVOICING FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (DEC 2012)


Electronic invoices shall be submitted to the Defense Financial and Accounting Services (DFAS) for telecommunications services.  For further
details and instructions go to: http://www.dfas.mil/contractorsvendors/faqs.html, or contact DFAS Systems Support Operations at CCO-FAB@DFAS.mil
or DFAS customer service at 800-756-4571, option 2, then option 1.

                                                                 (End of clause)




52.237-9000      KEY PERSONNEL (AUG 2011)

The personnel listed below are considered essential to the work being performed hereunder.  Prior to substituting, removing, replacing, or
diverting any of the specified individuals, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer (KO) 15 working days in advance and shall submit
a written request and justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on this Contract.
 The proposed substitution of personnel must meet or exceed the education, experience, and other technical requirements of the personnel being
replaced. No change in personnel shall be made by the Contractor without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer.  However, in
urgent situations, as determined or agreed to by the Contracting Officer, an oral request to substitute key personnel may be approved and
subsequently ratified by the Contracting Officer in writing.  Such ratification shall constitute the consent of the Contracting Officer required
by this paragraph.  The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor within 10 working days after receipt of all required information of the
decision on the substitution(s).  In the event the proposed substitution of key personnel does not meet or exceed the education, experience, and
other technical requirements of the personnel being replaced, the Government reserves the right to require continued performance of previously
approved key personnel or to require substitution of acceptable replacements for the individuals specified below.  The key personnel listed
below may, with the consent of the contracting parties, be amended from time to time during the course of the Contract to either add or delete
personnel as appropriate.

[To be determined by the Government on review of technical/Management Proposals]

|Name                                                                  |Position/Labor Category                                               |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |
|                                                                      |                                                                      |


Section H - Special Contract Requirements

SECTION H
H-1 OUTAGE CREDITS


If response times and/or repair times are longer than the maximum times required by the PWS, maintenance credits will be provided to the
Government by the contractor.  The following schedule shall be used to determine the credit (one Day equals 1/30th of the Monthly Recurring
Charge (MRC)) due the Government during each monthly billing period:



      |Response Time Credit                                              |Repair Time Credit                                                 |
|2 Hour maximum response time                                      |8 Hours maximum repair time                                        |
|2 Hours but less than 3 hours = 1/8 Day                           |8 Hours but less than 9 Hours = 1/3 Day                            |
|3 Hours but less than 6 Hours = 1/4 Day                           |9 Hours but less than 12 Hours 1/2 Day                             |
|6 Hours but less than 9 Hours = 1/3 Day                           |12 Hours but less than 24 Hours = One Day                          |
|9 Hours but less than 12 Hours = 1/2 Day                          |Over 24 Hours = 1/30th of the total monthly charge for each        |
|12 Hours but less than 24 Hours = One Day                         |operational day                                                    |
|Over 24 Hours = 1/30th of the total monthly charge for each       |                                                                   |
|operational day                                                   |                                                                   |


Outage credits will be due no later than the next Billing Cycle/Month following the outage. Each credit will identify the time, date and
duration of the outage/outages and the response and repair times.
                                                                 (End of clause)
H-2 CONTRACTOR ACQUIRED INSURANCE
In performing work under this contract on a Government installation or in a Government building, the Contractor shall obtain and maintain the
minimum kinds and amounts of insurance specified by FAR 28.307-2.
                                                                 (End of clause)



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.239-9001  DATA INFORMATION ASSURANCE PROTECTION  (JULY 2006)

(a) The contractor shall protect and safeguard sensitive Government Provided Information (GFI) and data from inadvertent disclosure, misuse,
display, theft, and unauthorized actions that would destroy or render the information unavailable for specific government use.  Should the
contractor, or one of his/her employees, make any inadvertent or any unauthorized disclosure(s) or willfully participate in activities that
result in detrimental harm to the protection and safeguarding of sensitive (GFI) and data, such actions may be considered to be a breach of this
contract and the terms of the Default clause may be invoked.  The contractor shall afford safeguarding consistent with the protection
requirements identified by the government until such time the government deems the information/data is no longer sensitive and provides
corresponding written notification to the contractor.

(b) All contractor and support contractor personnel with access to DISA and DOD Information Systems shall complete initial information assurance
awareness and annual refresher training in accordance with DOD Directive, 8570.1, IA Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.

(c) To support IA professionals, the DoD IA Portal (IA Support Environment (IASE)) provides DOD IA policy-training requirements and DoD
sponsored training.  The IA Portal is located at http://iase.disa.mil.  This site also provides access to DOD Directive 8500.1, Information
Assurance (IA), and DOD 8570.1-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.

                                                                 (End of clause)
Section I - Contract Clauses

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.202-1                |Definitions                                                               |NOV 2013         |                       |
|52.203-3                |Gratuities                                                                |APR 1984         |                       |
|52.203-6 Alt I          |Restrictions On Subcontractor Sales To The Government  (Sep 2006) --      |OCT 1995         |                       |
|                        |Alternate I                                                               |                 |                       |
|52.203-12               |Limitation On Payments To Influence Certain Federal Transactions          |OCT 2010         |                       |
|52.203-13               |Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct                            |APR 2010         |                       |
|52.203-17               |Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights and Requirement To Inform        |APR 2014         |                       |
|                        |Employees of Whistleblower Rights                                         |                 |                       |
|52.204-4                |Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper        |MAY 2011         |                       |
|52.204-7                |System for Award Management                                               |JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.204-9                |Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel                    |JAN 2011         |                       |
|52.204-10               |Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards        |JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.204-13               |System for Award Management Maintenance                                   |JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.209-5                |Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters                            |APR 2010         |                       |
|52.209-6                |Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors |AUG 2013         |                       |
|                        |Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment                            |                 |                       |
|52.209-9                |Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters|JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.212-4                |Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items                           |DEC 2014         |                       |
|52.215-8                |Order of Precedence--Uniform Contract Format                              |OCT 1997         |                       |
|52.219-6                |Notice Of Total Small Business Set-Aside                                  |NOV 2011         |                       |
|52.219-8                |Utilization of Small Business Concerns                                    |OCT 2014         |                       |
|52.219-14               |Limitations On Subcontracting                                             |NOV 2011         |                       |
|52.222-1                |Notice To The Government Of Labor Disputes                                |FEB 1997         |                       |
|52.222-3                |Convict Labor                                                             |JUN 2003         |                       |
|52.222-19               |Child Labor -- Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies                  |JAN 2014         |                       |
|52.222-21               |Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities                                      |FEB 1999         |                       |
|52.222-22               |Previous Contracts And Compliance Reports                                 |FEB 1999         |                       |
|52.222-26               |Equal Opportunity                                                         |MAR 2007         |                       |
|52.222-35               |Equal Opportunity for Veterans                                            |JUL 2014         |                       |
|52.222-36               |Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities                           |JUL 2014         |                       |
|52.222-37               |Employment Reports on Veterans                                            |JUL 2014         |                       |
|52.222-40               |Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act    |DEC 2010         |                       |
|52.222-50               |Combating Trafficking in Persons                                          |FEB 2009         |                       |
|52.222-54               |Employment Eligibility Verification                                       |AUG 2013         |                       |
|52.223-5                |Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information                        |MAY 2011         |                       |
|52.223-18               |Encouraging Contractor Policies To Ban Text Messaging While Driving       |AUG 2011         |                       |
|52.225-13               |Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases                                 |JUN 2008         |                       |
|52.227-1                |Authorization and Consent                                                 |DEC 2007         |                       |
|52.227-2                |Notice And Assistance Regarding Patent And Copyright Infringement         |DEC 2007         |                       |
|52.228-5                |Insurance - Work On A Government Installation                             |JAN 1997         |                       |
|52.229-3                |Federal, State And Local Taxes                                            |FEB 2013         |                       |
|52.232-17               |Interest                                                                  |MAY 2014         |                       |
|52.232-23               |Assignment Of Claims                                                      |MAY 2014         |                       |
|52.233-3                |Protest After Award                                                       |AUG 1996         |                       |
|52.233-4                |Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim                               |OCT 2004         |                       |
|52.237-2                |Protection Of Government Buildings, Equipment, And Vegetation             |APR 1984         |                       |
|52.239-1                |Privacy or Security Safeguards                                            |AUG 1996         |                       |
|52.242-13               |Bankruptcy                                                                |JUL 1995         |                       |
|52.245-1                |Government Property                                                       |APR 2012         |                       |
|52.245-9                |Use And Charges                                                           |APR 2012         |                       |
|52.246-19               |Warranty Of Systems And Equipment Under Performance Specifications Or     |MAY 2001         |                       |
|                        |Design Criteria                                                           |                 |                       |
|52.251-1                |Government Supply Sources                                                 |APR 2012         |                       |
|52.253-1                |Computer Generated Forms                                                  |JAN 1991         |                       |
|252.201-7000            |Contracting Officer's Representative                                      |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.203-7000            |Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials             |SEP 2011         |                       |
|252.203-7002            |Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights                   |SEP 2013         |                       |
|252.203-7003            |Agency Office of the Inspector General                                    |DEC 2012         |                       |
|252.203-7005            |Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials           |NOV 2011         |                       |
|252.204-7000            |Disclosure Of Information                                                 |AUG 2013         |                       |
|252.204-7002            |Payment For Subline Items Not Separately Priced                           |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.204-7003            |Control Of Government Personnel Work Product                              |APR 1992         |                       |
|252.204-7004 Alt A      |System for Award Management Alternate A                                   |FEB 2014         |                       |
|252.204-7006            |Billing Instructions                                                      |OCT 2005         |                       |
|252.204-7011            |Alternative Line Item Structure                                           |SEP 2011         |                       |
|252.204-7012            |Safeguarding of Unclassified Controlled Technical Information             |NOV 2013         |                       |
|252.204-7015            |Disclosure of Information to Litigation Support Contractors               |FEB 2014         |                       |
|252.205-7000            |Provision Of Information To Cooperative Agreement Holders                 |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.209-7004            |Subcontracting With Firms That Are Owned or Controlled By The Government  |DEC 2014         |                       |
|                        |of a Terrorist Country                                                    |                 |                       |
|252.211-7007            |Reporting of Government-Furnished Property                                |AUG 2012         |                       |
|252.211-7008            |Use of Government-Assigned Serial Numbers                                 |SEP 2010         |                       |
|252.223-7006            |Prohibition On Storage, Treatment, and Disposal of Toxic or Hazardous     |SEP 2014         |                       |
|                        |Materials                                                                 |                 |                       |
|252.223-7008            |Prohibition of Hexavalent Chromium                                        |JUN 2013         |                       |
|252.225-7001            |Buy American And Balance Of Payments Program-- Basic (Nov 2014)           |NOV 2014         |                       |
|252.225-7012            |Preference For Certain Domestic Commodities                               |FEB 2013         |                       |
|252.225-7048            |Export-Controlled Items                                                   |JUN 2013         |                       |
|252.226-7001            |Utilization of Indian Organizations and Indian-Owned Economic Enterprises,|SEP 2004         |                       |
|                        |and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns                               |                 |                       |
|252.227-7015            |Technical Data--Commercial Items                                          |FEB 2014         |                       |
|252.232-7003            |Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports           |JUN 2012         |                       |
|252.232-7010            |Levies on Contract Payments                                               |DEC 2006         |                       |
|252.237-7023            |Continuation of Essential Contractor Services                             |OCT 2010         |                       |
|252.239-7000            |Protection Against Compromising Emanations                                |JUN 2004         |                       |
|252.239-7001            |Information Assurance Contractor Training and Certification               |JAN 2008         |                       |
|252.239-7002            |Access                                                                    |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.239-7004            |Orders For Facilities And Services                                        |NOV 2005         |                       |
|252.239-7005            |Rates, Charges, And Services                                              |NOV 2005         |                       |
|252.239-7006            |Tariff Information                                                        |JUL 1997         |                       |
|252.239-7007            |Cancellation Or Termination Of Orders                                     |NOV 2005         |                       |
|252.239-7011            |Special Construction And Equipment Charges                                |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.239-7012            |Title To Telecommunication Facilities And Equipment                       |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.239-7016            |Telecommunications Security Equipment, Devices, Techniques, And Services  |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.239-7018            |Supply Chain Risk                                                         |NOV 2013         |                       |
|252.243-7001            |Pricing Of Contract Modifications                                         |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.243-7002            |Requests for Equitable Adjustment                                         |DEC 2012         |                       |
|252.244-7000            |Subcontracts for Commercial Items                                         |JUN 2013         |                       |
|252.245-7000            |Government-Furnished Mapping, Charting, and Geodesy Property              |APR 2012         |                       |
|252.245-7001            |Tagging, Labeling, and Marking of Government-Furnished Property           |APR 2012         |                       |
|252.245-7002            |Reporting Loss of Government Property                                     |APR 2012         |                       |
|252.245-7003            |Contractor Property Management System Administration                      |APR 2012         |                       |
|252.245-7004            |Reporting, Reutilization, and Disposal                                    |MAY 2013         |                       |
|252.247-7023            |Transportation of Supplies by Sea                                         |APR 2014         |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.204-9001 Contract/Order Closeout—Fixed-Price, Time-and-Materials, or Labor-Hours
As prescribed in 4.804 (S-90), insert the following clause:

                                           CONTRACT/ORDER CLOSEOUT—FIXED-PRICE, TIME-AND-MATERIALS, OR
                                                              LABOR-HOURS (JAN 2007)

Timely contract closeout is a priority under this contract/order. The Contractor shall submit a final invoice within ninety (90) calendar days
after the expiration of this contract/order, unless the Contractor requests and is granted an extension by the Contracting Officer, in writing.
In addition, and concurrent with the submission of the final invoice, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of the amount of
excess funds that can be deobligated from this contract/order so the closeout process can begin as soon as possible upon expiration of this
contract/order. A bilateral contract/order closeout modification will be forwarded to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer and must be
signed by the Contractor and returned to the Contracting Officer within thirty (30) calendar days of issuance of the modification. A
Contractor’s failure to respond and/or sign the bilateral closeout modification within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt will constitute
approval of the terms of the modification and the modification will subsequently be processed unilaterally by the Contracting Officer to
deobligate excess funds and close this contract/order. If this contract/order contains option periods, the Contractor is required to submit an
invoice within ninety (90) calendar days after expiration of the base period of performance and the expiration of each exercised option period
of performance to allow for deobligation of excess funds that were obligated in those respective periods of performance.

                                                                 (End of clause)




52.209-9000  ORGANIZATIONAL AND CONSULTANT CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCCI) (DEC 2014)

(a) An offeror shall identify in its proposal, quote, bid or any resulting contract, any potential or actual Organizational and Consultant
Conflicts of Interest (OCCI) as described in FAR Subpart
9.5.  This includes actual or potential conflicts of interests of proposed subcontractors.  If an offeror identifies in its proposal, quote, bid
or any resulting contract, a potential or actual conflict of interests the offeror shall submit an Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of
Interest Mitigation Plan  to the contracting officer.  The Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest Mitigation Plan shall describe
how the offeror addresses potential or actual conflicts of interest and identify how they will avoid, neutralize, or mitigate present or future
conflicts of interest.

(b) Offerors must consider whether their involvement and participation raises any OCCI issues, especially in the following areas when:

(1) Providing systems engineering and technical direction.

(2) Preparing specifications or work statements and/or objectives.
(3) Providing evaluation services.
(4) Obtaining access to proprietary information.

(c)  If a prime contractor or subcontractor breaches any of the OCCI restrictions, or does not disclose or misrepresents any relevant facts
concerning its conflict of interest, the government may take appropriate action, including terminating the contract, in additional to any
remedies that may be otherwise permitted by the contract or operation of law.

                                                                 (End of clause)





52.211-9000 Requirement to Submit an Electronic Product List

As prescribed in DARS 211.274-6 (S-90), use the following clause:

REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT AN ELECTRONIC PRODUCT LIST (SEP 2012)

The contractor shall submit the following in addition to complying with all requirements of DFARS 252.211-7003, Item Identification and
Valuation:
(a) Complete the Electronic Product List (EPL) attached to this contract for all products delivered under this contract. If a copy of the EPL
has not been provide with the contract document, the EPL can be downloaded from the following location:
https://www.ditco.disa.mil/DitcoContractingTemplates/doku.php?id=government_property. A separate EPL shall be submitted each time products are
delivered under this contract, including when products are replaced through a warranty or service support.
(b) The EPL shall be delivered electronically for review and approval to the Acceptor identified as the Customer/COR/TM Point of Contact in the
clause at 52.204-9000, Points of Contact if method of payment is via the government purchase card, or the WAWF point of contact identified in
the clause at DFARS 252.232-7006, Wide Area WorkFlow Payment Instructions.for contracts process through WAWF. A copy of the EPL shall also be
submitted to the Manpower, Personnel and Security (MPS) Directorate at the following email address: disa.meade.mps.mbx.mps7-facilities-and-real-
property-div@mail.mil.
(c) The contractor shall submit the EPL to the Acceptor and MPS in advance of or concurrently with delivery of products. The Acceptor will not
accept products delivered under this contract until the EPL is approved.
DISA ACQUISITION REGULATION SUPPLEMENT (DARS)
2012 Edition 52-5
(d) If the EPL is delivered in advance of the products, the Acceptor will notify the contractor via email if the list is approved or
disapproved. If the EPL is delivered concurrently with the products, acceptance of the products delivered via WAWF will also serve as approval
of the EPL.

                                                                 (End of clause)




 52.212-5     CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS—COMMERCIAL ITEMS  (DEVIATION 2013-O0019) (DEC
2014)

(a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records -- Negotiation.
(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to
examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the
disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such
appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
(b) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clause in this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other
than those in this paragraph (b)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall
be as required by the clause—
(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for
construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting
opportunities.
(iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause
52.222-17.
(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).
(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).
(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in
accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.
(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)
(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
____ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--
Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.)
(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012).
(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with
paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S.- Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down
required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to
satisfy its contractual obligations.
(End of Clause)






52.217-8     OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.

(End of clause)



52.217-9     OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 120 months.
(End of clause)



52.219-14     LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (NOV 2011)

(a) This clause does not apply to the unrestricted portion of a partial set-aside.

(b) Applicability. This clause applies only to--

(1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for small business concerns or 8(a) concerns;

(2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for small business concerns or 8(a) concerns; and

(3) Orders set aside for small business or 8(a) concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F).

(c) By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Offeror/Contractor agrees that in performance of the contract in the case of a
contract for--

(1) Services (except construction). At least 50 percent of the cost of contract performance incurred for personnel shall be expended for
employees of the concern.

(2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies). The concern shall perform work for at least 50 percent of the
cost of manufacturing the supplies, not including the cost of materials.

(3) General construction. The concern will perform at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, with
its own employees.

(4) Construction by special trade contractors. The concern will perform at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost
of materials, with its own employees.



52.232-33      PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER—System for Award management (JULY 2013)

(a) Method of payment. (1) All payments by the Government under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT), except as
provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term “EFT” refers to the funds transfer and may also include the
payment information transfer.

(2) In the event the Government is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either--

(i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or

(ii) Request the Government to extend the payment due date until such time as the Government can make payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of
this clause).

(b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the System for
Award Management (SAM) database. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated
information to the SAM database.

(c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the
rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH
are contained in 31 CFR part 210.

(d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor's EFT information in the SAM database is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to
the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the SAM database; and any invoice or contract financing request
shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract
regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply.

(e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Government used the
Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the Government remains responsible for--

(i) Making a correct payment;

(ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and

(iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds.

(2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of
Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and--

(i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Government is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is
responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or

(ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Government shall not make payment, and the provisions of paragraph (d) of
this clause shall apply.

(f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this
contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment
is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System.

(g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of
this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the SAM
database and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment
to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to
subpart 32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT
information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims
acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause.

(h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT
information made by the Contractor's financial agent.

(i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for
transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to
designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of
executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment
office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by
check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in
the SAM database.

(End of Clause)



52.237-9001  Enterprise-wide Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (eCMRA) Reporting.
As prescribed in 37.102-90, use the following clause:
ENTERPRISE-WIDE Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (eCMRA) Reporting   (NOV 2013)

The contractor shall ensure ALL contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for the performance of services provided
under this contract are reported via a secure data collection site.

The contractor (and all subcontractors providing direct labor under this contract) shall report complete and accurate data for the labor
executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs from October 1 to September 30.  The Contractor
shall input the data into the appropriate eCMRA reporting tool, which can be accessed via a secure web site at http://www.ecmra.mil/.  There are
four separate eCMRA tools: Army, Air Force, Navy and All Other Defense Components.  The appropriate eCMRA reporting tool to use is determined by
the requiring activity being supported (e.g., if DISA awards a contract for an Air Force requiring activity, the contractor shall load the
required reporting data in the “Department of Air Force CMRA” tool).  While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be
reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year.  The contractor shall completely fill in all required data fields.  The contractor
shall enter initial data into the appropriate eCMRA tool to establish the basic contract record no later than 15 working days after receipt of
contract award or contract modification incorporating this clause.  The contractor shall notify the COR when the basic contract record has been
established in the appropriate eCMRA tool.

eCMRA User Manuals and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are available at http://www.ecmra.mil/

Contractors may direct technical questions to the eCMRA help desk at
dodcmra@pentagon.af.mil
.

                                                                 (End of clause)




52.252-2      CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es):

http://farsite.hill.af.mil/

http://www.acquisition.gov/far/


(End of clause)



52.252-6     AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is
indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.

(b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement clause with an authorized deviation is
indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.

(End of clause)



252.211-7003   ITEM UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION AND VALUATION (DEC 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause'

Automatic identification device means a device, such as a reader or interrogator, used to retrieve data encoded on machine-readable media.

Concatenated unique item identifier means--

(1) For items that are serialized within the enterprise identifier, the linking together of the unique identifier data elements in order of the
issuing agency code, enterprise identifier, and unique serial number within the enterprise identifier; or

(2) For items that are serialized within the original part, lot, or batch number, the linking together of the unique identifier data elements in
order of the issuing agency code; enterprise identifier; original part, lot, or batch number; and serial number within the original part, lot,
or batch number.

Data Matrix means a two-dimensional matrix symbology, which is made up of square or, in some cases, round modules arranged within a perimeter
finder pattern and uses the Error Checking and Correction 200
(ECC200) specification found within International Standards Organization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 16022.

Data qualifier means a specified character (or string of characters) that immediately precedes a data field that defines the general category or
intended use of the data that follows.

DoD recognized unique identification equivalent means a unique identification method that is in commercial use and has been recognized by DoD.
All DoD recognized unique identification equivalents are listed at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/iuid_equivalents.html.

DoD item unique identification means a system of marking items delivered to DoD with unique item identifiers that have machine-readable data
elements to distinguish an item from all other like and unlike items.  For items that are serialized within the enterprise identifier, the
unique item identifier shall include the data elements of the enterprise identifier and a unique serial number.  For items that are serialized
within the part, lot, or batch number within the enterprise identifier, the unique item identifier shall include the data elements of the
enterprise identifier; the original part, lot, or batch number; and the serial number.

Enterprise means the entity (e.g., a manufacturer or vendor) responsible for assigning unique item identifiers to items.

Enterprise identifier means a code that is uniquely assigned to an enterprise by an issuing agency.

Government's unit acquisition cost means--

(1) For fixed-price type line, subline, or exhibit line items, the unit price identified in the contract at the time of delivery;

(2) For cost-type or undefinitized line, subline, or exhibit line items, the Contractor's estimated fully burdened unit cost to the Government
at the time of delivery; and

(3) For items produced under a time-and-materials contract, the Contractor's estimated fully burdened unit cost to the Government at the time of
delivery.

Issuing agency means an organization responsible for assigning a globally unique identifier to an enterprise (e.g.,
Dun & Bradstreet's Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number, GS1 Company Prefix, Allied Committee 135 NATO Commercial and Government Entity
(NCAGE)/Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code, or the Coded Representation of the North American Telecommunications Industry
Manufacturers, Suppliers, and Related Service Companies (ATIS-0322000) Number), European Health Industry Business Communication Council (EHIBCC)
and Health Industry Business Communication Council (HIBCC)), as indicated in the Register of Issuing Agency Codes for ISO/IEC 15459, located at
http://www.nen.nl/Normontwikkeling/Certificatieschemas-en-keurmerken/Schemabeheer/ISOIEC-15459.htm.

Issuing agency code means a code that designates the registration (or controlling) authority for the enterprise identifier.

Item means a single hardware article or a single unit formed by a grouping of subassemblies, components, or constituent parts.

Lot or batch number means an identifying number assigned by the enterprise to a designated group of items, usually referred to as either a lot
or a batch, all of which were manufactured under identical conditions.

Machine-readable means an automatic identification technology media, such as bar codes, contact memory buttons, radio frequency identification,
or optical memory cards.

Original part number means a combination of numbers or letters assigned by the enterprise at item creation to a class of items with the same
form, fit, function, and interface.

Parent item means the item assembly, intermediate component, or subassembly that has an embedded item with a unique item identifier or DoD
recognized unique identification equivalent.

Serial number within the enterprise identifier means a combination of numbers, letters, or symbols assigned by the enterprise to an item that
provides for the differentiation of that item from any other like and unlike item and is never used again within the enterprise.

Serial number within the part, lot, or batch number means a combination of numbers or letters assigned by the enterprise to an item that
provides for the differentiation of that item from any other like item within a part, lot, or batch number assignment.

Serialization within the enterprise identifier means each item produced is assigned a serial number that is unique among all the tangible items
produced by the enterprise and is never used again. The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the enterprise
identifier.

Serialization within the part, lot, or batch number means each item of a particular part, lot, or batch number is assigned a unique serial
number within that part, lot, or batch number assignment. The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the part, lot,
or batch number within the enterprise identifier.

Type designation means a combination of letters and numerals assigned by the Government to a major end item, assembly or subassembly, as
appropriate, to provide a convenient means of differentiating between items having the same basic name and to indicate modifications and changes
thereto.

Unique item identifier means a set of data elements marked on items that is globally unique and unambiguous. The term includes a concatenated
unique item identifier or a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.

Unique item identifier type means a designator to indicate which method of uniquely identifying a part has been used. The current list of
accepted unique item identifier types is maintained at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/uii_types.html.

(b) The Contractor shall deliver all items under a contract line, subline, or exhibit line item.

(c) Unique item identifier. (1) The Contractor shall provide a unique item identifier for the following:

(i) Delivered items for which the Government's unit acquisition cost is $5,000 or more, except for the following line items:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Contract line, subline, or exhibit
           line item No.                                 Item description
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     ...................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

(ii) Items for which the Government's unit acquisition cost is less than $5,000 that are identified in the Schedule or the following table:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Contract line, subline, or exhibit
           line item No.                              Item description
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     ...................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


(If items are identified in the Schedule, insert ``See Schedule'' in this table.)

(iii) Subassemblies, components, and parts embedded within delivered items, items with warranty requirements, DoD serially managed reparables
and DoD serially managed nonreparables as specified in Attachment Number ----.

(iv) Any item of special tooling or special test equipment as defined in FAR 2.101 that have been designated for preservation and storage for a
Major Defense Acquisition Program as specified in Attachment Number ----.

(v) Any item not included in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or

(iv) of this clause for which the contractor creates and marks a unique item identifier for traceability.

(2) The unique item identifier assignment and its component data element combination shall not be duplicated on any other item marked or
registered in the DoD Item Unique Identification Registry by the contractor.

(3) The unique item identifier component data elements shall be marked on an item using two dimensional data matrix symbology that complies with
ISO/IEC International Standard 16022, Information
technology--International symbology specification--Data matrix; ECC200 data matrix specification.

(4) Data syntax and semantics of unique item identifiers. The Contractor shall ensure that--

(i) The data elements (except issuing agency code) of the unique item identifier are encoded within the data matrix symbol that is marked on the
item using one of the following three types of data qualifiers, as determined by the Contractor:

(A) Application Identifiers (AIs) (Format Indicator 05 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with ISO/IEC International
Standard 15418, Information Technology--EAN/UCC Application Identifiers and Fact Data Identifiers and Maintenance and ANSI MH 10.8.2 Data
Identifier and Application Identifier Standard.

(B) Data Identifiers (DIs) (Format Indicator 06 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with ISO/IEC International Standard
15418, Information Technology--EAN/UCC Application Identifiers
and Fact Data Identifiers and Maintenance and ANSI MH 10.8.2 Data Identifier and Application Identifier Standard.

(C) Text Element Identifiers (TEIs) (Format Indicator 12 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with the Air Transport
Association Common Support Data Dictionary; and

(ii) The encoded data elements of the unique item identifier conform to the transfer structure, syntax, and coding of messages and data formats
specified for Format Indicators 05, 06, and 12 in ISO/IEC International Standard 15434, Information Technology-Transfer Syntax for High Capacity
Automatic Data Capture Media.

(5) Unique item identifier.

(i) The Contractor shall--

(A) Determine whether to--

(1) Serialize within the enterprise identifier;

(2) Serialize within the part, lot, or batch number; or

(3) Use a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent (e.g. Vehicle Identification Number); and

(B) Place the data elements of the unique item identifier (enterprise identifier; serial number; DoD recognized unique
identification equivalent; and for serialization within the part, lot, or batch number only: Original part, lot, or batch number) on items
requiring marking by paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, based on the criteria provided in MIL-STD-130, Identification Marking of U.S. Military
Property, latest version;

(C) Label shipments, storage containers and packages that contain uniquely identified items in accordance with the requirements of MIL-STD-129,
Military Marking for Shipment and Storage, latest version; and

(D) Verify that the marks on items and labels on shipments, storage containers, and packages are machine readable and conform to the applicable
standards. The contractor shall use an automatic identification technology device for this verification that has been programmed to the
requirements of Appendix A, MIL-STD-130, latest
version.

(ii) The issuing agency code--

(A) Shall not be placed on the item; and

(B) Shall be derived from the data qualifier for the enterprise identifier.

(d) For each item that requires item unique identification under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iv) of this clause or when item unique
identification is provided under paragraph (c)(1)(v), in addition to the information provided as part of the Material Inspection and Receiving
Report specified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall report at the time of delivery, as part of the Material Inspection and
Receiving Report, the following information:

(1) Unique item identifier.

(2) Unique item identifier type.

(3) Issuing agency code (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(4) Enterprise identifier (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(5) Original part number (if there is serialization within the original part number).

(6) Lot or batch number (if there is serialization within the lot or batch number).

(7) Current part number (optional and only if not the same as the original part number).

(8) Current part number effective date (optional and only if current part number is used).

(9) Serial number (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(10) Government's unit acquisition cost.

(11) Unit of measure.

(e) For embedded subassemblies, components, and parts that require DoD unique item identification under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this clause,
the Contractor shall report as part of, or associated with, the Material Inspection and Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract,
the following information:

(1) Unique item identifier of the parent item under paragraph (c)(1) of this clause that contains the embedded subassembly, component, or part.

(2) Unique item identifier of the embedded subassembly, component, or part.

(3) Unique item identifier type.**

(4) Issuing agency code (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(5) Enterprise identifier (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(6) Original part number (if there is serialization within the original part number).**

(7) Lot or batch number (if there is serialization within the lot or batch number).**

(8) Current part number (optional and only if not the same as the original part number).**

(9) Current part number effective date (optional and only if current part number is used).**

(10) Serial number (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(11) Description.

(12) Type designation of the item as specified in the contract schedule, if any.

(13) Whether the item is an item of Special Tooling or Special Test Equipment.

(14) Whether the item is covered by a warranty.

** Once per item.

(e) For embedded subassemblies, components, and parts that require DoD item unique identification under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this clause or
when item unique identification is provided under paragraph
(c)(1)(v), the Contractor shall report as part of the Material Inspection and Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract, the
following information:

(f) The Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause as follows:

(1) End items shall be reported using the receiving report capability in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF) in accordance with the clause at 252.232-
7003. If WAWF is not required by this contract, and the
contractor is not using WAWF, follow the procedures at http://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/site/uidregistry/.

(2) Embedded items shall be reported by one of the following methods--

(i) Use of the embedded items capability in WAWF;

(ii) Direct data submission to the IUID Registry following the procedures and formats at http://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/site/uidregistry/; or

(iii) Via WAWF as a deliverable attachment for exhibit line item number (fill in) ----, Unique Item Identifier Report for Embedded Items,
Contract Data Requirements List, DD Form 1423.

(g) Subcontracts. If the Contractor acquires by contract any items for which item unique identification is required in accordance with paragraph
(c)(1) of this clause, the Contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph (g), in the applicable subcontract(s), including
subcontracts for commercial items.

(End of clause)




252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (MAY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization.

Document type means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF).

Local processing office (LPO) is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement
system.

(b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized
by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission
of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.

(c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall--

(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the System for Award Management at https://www.acquisition.gov; and

(2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this Web site.

(d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training
Site before submitting payment requests through
WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the “Web Based Training” link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/.

(e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via Web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol.

(f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF
for this contract/order:

(1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s).

____

(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable document type(s). Note: If a “Combo” document type is identified but not supportable by the Contractor's
business systems, an “Invoice” (stand-alone) and
“Receiving Report” (stand-alone) document type may be used instead.)

(2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the
contracting officer.

____

(Contracting Officer: Insert inspection and acceptance locations or “Not applicable”.)

(3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when
creating payment requests and receiving reports in the
system.

Routing Data Table*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Field Name in WAWF                Data to be entered in WAWF
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pay Official DoDAAC               ____
Issue By DoDAAC              ____
Admin DoDAAC                      ____
Inspect By DoDAAC                 ____
Ship To Code                      ____
Ship From Code                    ____
Mark For Code                     ____
Service Approver (DoDAAC)         ____
Service Acceptor (DoDAAC)         ____
Accept at Other DoDAAC                      ____
LPO DoDAAC                   ____
DCAA Auditor DoDAAC               ____
Other DoDAAC(s)              ____
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(*Contracting Officer: Insert applicable DoDAAC information or “See schedule” if multiple ship to/acceptance locations apply, or “Not
applicable.”)

(4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and
subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up
documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request.

(5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the email address identified below in the “Send Additional Email Notifications” field
of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system.
____

(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable email addresses or “Not applicable.”)

(g) WAWF point of contact. (1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's
WAWF point of contact.

____

(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable information or “Not applicable.”)

(2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988.

(End of clause)





252.239-7008     REUSE ARRANGEMENTS (DEC 1991)

(a) When feasible, the Contractor shall reuse canceled or terminated facilities or equipment to minimize the charges to the Government.

(b) If at any time the Government requires that telecommunications facilities or equipment be relocated within the Contractor's service area,
the Government shall have the option of paying the costs of relocating the facilities or equipment in lieu of paying any termination or
cancellation charge under the Cancellation or Termination of Orders-Common Carriers clause of this agreement/contract.  The Basic Termination
Liability applicable to the facilities or equipment in their former location shall continue to apply to the facilities and equipment in their
new location.  Monthly rental charges shall continue to be paid during the period.

(c) When there is another requirement or foreseeable reuse in place of canceled or terminated facilities or equipment, no  charge shall apply
and the Basic Cancellation or Termination Liability shall be appropriately reduced.  When feasible, the Contractor shall promptly reuse
discontinued channels or facilities, including equipment for which the Government is obligated to pay a minimum service charge.

(End of clause)
Section J - List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

SECTION J
ATTACHMENTS

   1. PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (28 pages; February 06, 2015)

   2. MANUFACTURING BILL OF MATERIALS (2 Excel Worksheets; February 06, 2015)

   3. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS SPECIFICATION (32 pages; December 18, 2014)

   4. DISN IMPLEMENATION STANDARDS (180 pages; January 30, 2013)

   5. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) (4 pages; January 26, 2015)

   6. CONTRACT DELIVERABLE REQUIREMENTS LIST (CDRL)  (3 pages; January 26, 2015)

   7. PRICING TEMPLATE  (1 Excel Worksheet; January 26, 2015)

   8. MISSION ESSENTIAL SERVICES (2 pages; February 05, 2015)


Section K - Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors

SECTION K
Representations and Instructions, Section K will not be physically included in a contract resulting from this solicitation.  Pursuant to the
provisions of FAR 15.204-1 - Uniform Contract Format, Section K - Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors or Quoters,
will be incorporated by reference and considered to be a part thereof.


CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.225-25               |Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or|DEC 2012         |                       |
|                        |Transactions Relating to Iran-- Representation and Certifications.        |                 |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.207-4     ECONOMIC PURCHASE QUANTITY--SUPPLIES (AUG 1987)

(a) Offerors are invited to state an opinion on whether the quantity(ies) of supplies on which bids, proposals or quotes are requested in this
solicitation is (are) economically advantageous to the Government. _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________

Each offeror who believes that acquisitions in different quantities would be more advantageous is invited to recommend an economic purchase
quantity.  If different quantities are recommended, a total and a unit price must be quoted for applicable items.  An economic purchase quantity
is that quantity at which a significant price break occurs.  If there are significant price breaks at different quantity points, this
information is desired as well.

      OFFEROR RECOMMENDATIONS
      PRICE
ITEM  QUANTITY   QUOTATION   TOTAL _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________

(c) The information requested in this provision is being solicited to avoid acquisitions in disadvantageous quantities and to assist the
Government in developing a data base for future acquisitions of these items.  However, the Government reserves the right to amend or cancel the
solicitation and resolicit with respect to any individual item in the event quotations received and the Government's requirements indicate that
different quantities should be acquired.

(End of provision)


52.209-7   INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JULY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision--

Administrative proceeding means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability
(e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board
of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with
performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or
inspection of deliverables.

Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000 means--

(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and

(2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or
requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).

Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business
entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a
division or business segment; and similar positions).

(b) The offeror ( ) has ( ) does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000.

(c) If the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information
it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of
submission of this offer with regard to the following information:

(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or
performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any
of the following dispositions:

(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.

(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement,
restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.

(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in--

(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or

(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.

(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by
the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this
provision.

(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror
has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.

(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through
maintaining an active registration in the System for Award Management database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7).

(End of provision)

Section L - Instructions, Conditions and Notices to Bidders

SECTION L
                                         Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors or Respondents

1. Program Title and Objectives

The purpose of the DISN Optical Network Enhancement Link 38 acquisition is to execute the installation of various telecommunications equipment
at new facilities, all of which will be covered under new Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) fiber.  The acquisition shall effectively include the
purchase of new equipment, and installation of said equipment at the targeted facilities for which the IRU fiber strands intersect. The Optical
Transport Network will be 100 Gigabyte/second (“100G”) 6500 Packet-Optical Transport Network (P-OTN) and tie into the current DISN.

2.0 General Instructions

      (a) This section of the Information to Offerors provides general guidance for preparing proposals as well as specific instructions on the
format and content of the proposal. The offeror's proposal must include all data and information requested by the RFP and must be submitted in
accordance with these instructions.  The offer shall be compliant with the requirements as stated in the Performance Work Statement (PWS),
Functional Requirements Specification (FRS) and Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL). Non-conformance with the instructions provided in this
Information to Offerors may result in removal of the proposal from further evaluation.

      (b) The proposal shall be clear, concise, and shall include sufficient detail for effective evaluation and for substantiating the validity
of stated claims.  The proposal should not simply rephrase or restate the Government's requirements but rather shall provide convincing
rationale to address how the offeror intends to meet these requirements.  Offerors shall assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of
their facilities and experience and will base its evaluation on the information presented in the offeror's proposal.

      (c) Elaborate brochures or documentation, binding, detailed art work, internet hyperlinks, or other embellishments are unnecessary and are
not desired.

      (d) The proposal acceptance period is specified in Section A of the solicitation.  The offeror shall make a clear statement in the contract
documentation volume that the proposal is valid through this date.


      (e) In accordance with FAR Subpart 4.8 (Government Contract Files), the Government will retain one copy of all unsuccessful proposals.
Unless the offeror requests otherwise, the Government will destroy extra copies of such unsuccessful proposals.

2.1 General Information

2.1.1 Point of Contact
The contracting officer (KO) is the sole point of contact for this procurement.  Address any questions or concerns you may have to the KO.
Written requests for clarification must be sent to the KO at the address located in Section A of the contract/solicitation.

2.1.2 Debriefings
The KO will notify offerors of any decision to exclude them from the competitive range; whereupon, they may request and receive a debriefing in
accordance with FAR 15.505.  Offerors excluded from the competitive range may request a pre-award debriefing or they may choose to wait until
after the source selection decision to request a post-award debriefing.  However, offerors excluded from the competitive range are entitled to
no more than one debriefing for each proposal.  The KO will notify unsuccessful offerors in the competitive range of the source selection
decision in accordance with FAR 15.506.  Upon such notification, unsuccessful offerors may request and receive a debriefing.  Offerors desiring
a debriefing must make their request in accordance with the requirements of FAR 15.505 or 15.506, as applicable.

2.1.3 Discrepancies
If an offeror believes that the requirements in these instructions contain an error, omission, or are otherwise unsound, the offeror shall
immediately notify the KO in writing. The offeror is reminded that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial
proposal, as received, without discussions.

2.1.4 Electronic Reference Documents
All referenced documents for this solicitation are available on the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps) web site at
http://www.fedbizopps.gov.  Potential offerors are encouraged to subscribe for real-time e-mail notifications when information has been posted
to the website for this solicitation.

2.1.5 Communications
Exchanges of source selection information between Government and offerors will be controlled by the contracting officer.  Email may be used to
transmit such information to offerors only if the email can be sent and received encrypted and includes “Source Selection Information – See FAR
2.101 & 3.104” in the Subject line.

Defense Information Systems Agency
Procurement Directorate (DITCO-Scott)
Mr. Nicholas Friederich
Contacting Officer
E-Mail: nicholas.s.friederich.civ@mail.mil
Reference:  RFP HC1013-15-R-0004

No information concerning this solicitation or requests for clarification will be provided in response to Offeror-initiated telephone calls. All
such requests must be made in writing and submitted to the above E-mail address. Written inquiries will be answered in writing and provided to
all Offerors. However, because of administrative time, written inquiries may not be answered when requests are received by the above addressee
within 10 calendar days of the due date of offers as specified in this solicitation.

2.2 Organization/Number of Copies/Page Limits
The offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table (Table 2.2 below).  The titles and contents of the
volumes shall be as defined in this table, all of which shall be within the required page limits and with the number of copies as specified in
Table 2.2.  The contents of each proposal volume are described in the information to offerors paragraph as noted in the table below.
Table 2.2 - Proposal Organization
|VOLUME            |Section L Paragraph     |VOLUME TITLE                                 |COPIES           |PAGE LIMIT              |
|                  |Number                  |                                             |                 |                        |
|I                 |3.0                     |Executive Summary                            |1 electronic     |10                      |
|II                |4.0                     |Technical/Management                         |1 electronic     |40                      |
|III               |5.0                     |Cost/Price                                   |1 electronic     |No Page Limit           |
|IV                |6.0                     |Contract Documentation                       |1 electronic     |No Page Limit           |

2.2.1 Page Limitations
Page limitations shall be treated as maximums.  If exceeded, the excess pages will not be read or considered in the evaluation of the proposal.
Page limitations may be placed on responses to Evaluation Notices (ENs).  The specified page limits for EN responses will be identified in the
letters forwarding the ENs to the offerors.  Page limitations shall not be circumvented by including inserted text boxes/pop-ups or internet
links to additional information; such inclusions are not acceptable and will not be considered part of the proposal.  The Government reserves
the right not to consider for award any proposal that does not adhere to the administrative requirements of this solicitation.  Each page shall
be counted except the following: cover page, table of contents, glossary, OCCI mitigation plans and Section 508 compliance.

2.2.2 Page Size and Format

2.2.2.1 A page is defined as each face of a sheet of paper containing information.  When both sides of a sheet display printed material, it
shall be counted as two pages.  Page size shall be 8.5 x 11 inches, not including foldouts. Pages shall be single spaced. Except for the
reproduced sections of the solicitation document and as indicated below in 2.2.2.2, the text size shall be no less than 12 point Ariel, Times
New Roman, or Courier New font for all text.  The technical volume of the proposal is to be submitted as an MSWord 2010 or PDF document.
Tracking, kerning, and leading values shall not be changed from the default values of the word processing or page layout software.  Use at least
1 inch margins on the top and bottom and ¾-inch side margins.  Pages shall be numbered sequentially by volume.  These page format restrictions
shall apply to responses to Ens as well.

2.2.2.2 Legible tables, charts, graphs, and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation
schedules, plans, etc.  These displays shall be uncomplicated, legible, and shall not exceed a single page in in size. For tables, charts,
graphs and figures, the text shall be no smaller than 10-point Ariel, Times New Roman, or Courier New font for all text included in a table.

2.2.3 Cost or Pricing Information
All cost or pricing information shall be addressed ONLY in the Cost/Price Proposal Volumes.

2.2.4 Classified Information
Offerors shall not submit classified information.

2.2.5 Cross-Referencing
To the greatest extent possible, each volume shall be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with a minimum of
cross referencing to other volumes of the proposal.  Information required for proposal evaluation which is not found in its designated volume
will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal.  Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is not permitted.

2.2.6 Indexing
Each volume shall contain a more detailed table of contents to delineate the subparagraphs within that volume.  Tab indexing shall be used to
identify sections.

2.2.7 Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms
Each volume shall contain a glossary of all abbreviations and acronyms used, and with an explanation for each.

2.2.8 Labeling
Be sure to apply all appropriate markings including those prescribed in accordance with FAR 52.215-1(e), Restriction on Disclosure and Use of
Data, and FAR 3.104-4, Disclosure, Protection, and Marking of Contractor Bid or Proposal Information and Source Selection Information.

2.3 Electronic Offers
In order to respond to this solicitation, the offeror shall deliver its proposal via email not later than the time and date specified in this
solicitation.  In accordance with FAR 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors, the offeror's proposal submission will be considered complete when all
volumes are received.  The offeror shall submit volumes I through IV in separate files attached to the email.  The electronic copies of the
proposal shall be submitted in a format readable by Adobe Acrobat Version 11, Microsoft (MS) Office Word 2010, MS Office Excel 2010, MS Office
Project 2010, and MS Office Power Point 2010, as applicable.

3.0 Volume I - Executive Summary
In the executive summary volume, the offeror shall provide the following information:

3.1 Narrative Summary
The narrative summary of the entire proposal should be concise, to include addressing the significant risks, and highlighting any key or unique
features, excluding cost/price.  The salient features should tie in with Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award.  Any summary material
presented here shall not be considered as meeting the requirements for any portions of other volumes of the proposal.

3.2 Table of Contents
Include a master table of contents of the entire proposal.

4.0   Volume II – Technical/Management Volume

4.1 General
The Technical/Management Volume should be specific and complete.  Your responses will be evaluated against the technical/management subfactors
defined in Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award.  Using the instructions provided below, provide as specifically as possible the actual
methodology you would use for accomplishing/satisfying these subfactors.  All the requirements specified in the solicitation are mandatory.
Do not merely reiterate the objectives or reformulate the requirements specified in the solicitation.

4.2 Format and Specific Content
Responses should be structured as follows to address the Technical/Management Approach.

Volume II Technical/Management


          Subfactor 1: Program Management
                 Task Area 1 Requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.1 – 6.4)


          Subfactor 2: Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment
                  Task Area 2 Requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.5 – 6.6)


          Subfactor 3: Operations and Maintenance
                  Task Area 3 Requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.7 – 6.9)


4.2.1 Technical/Management
In the Technical/Management volume, address your proposed approach to meeting or exceeding the minimum performance or capability requirements of
each technical/management subfactor, as well as the risks in your proposed approach in terms of technical/performance, cost, and/or schedule.

4.2.2 Volume Organization
The Technical/Management volume shall be organized according to the following general outline:
        1) Table of Contents
        2) List of Table and Drawings
        3) Glossary
        4) Subfactor One
        5) Subfactor Two
        6) Subfactor Three


5.0 Volume III - Cost/Price

5.1 General Instructions
The price evaluation will be based on the total Life Cycle Cost (LCC) for the contract life.  The Government will calculate the total LCC by
totaling the proposed Monthly Recurring Charges/Non-Recurring Charges (MRC/NRCs) of the Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs) in Section B to
include the base period, all option periods, and the option pricing for the additional 6-month period.

5.1.1 Price Reasonableness and Completeness
This section is to assist you in submitting information other than cost and pricing data that is required to evaluate the reasonableness and
completeness of your proposed price.  The Government will verify that all solicitation requirements have been priced, figures are correctly
calculated, and prices are presented in a clear and useful format.  Additionally, unbalanced pricing poses an unacceptable risk to the
Government and may be a reason to reject an offeror’s proposal.  Price submissions should be sufficiently detailed to demonstrate their
reasonableness.

5.1.2 Price Information
Pricing submitted for the base period and all option periods, including option pricing for an additional six-month period that may be authorized
IAW FAR 52.217-8 "Option to Extend Services" will be evaluated. See FAR 52.217-8 which authorizes the Government to require continued
performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. The pricing proposal should include separate line
items by CLIN for the additional six-month period IAW FAR 52.217-8. These prices shall be identical to the proposed pricing in the six months
prior to expiration of the base period, or the final option period, if option periods are present. The total evaluated price will be based on
the total LCC for the contract life, as defined in 5.1, and will consist of the proposed price for the base period, all option periods, and the
option pricing for the additional 6-month period.  Pricing will be incorporated into Schedule B and related B-Tables upon contract award.

5.1.3 Cost/Price Information
Information beyond that required by this instruction shall not be submitted, unless you consider it essential to document or support your
cost/price position.  All information relating to the proposed price, including all required supporting documentation must be included in the
section of the proposal designated as the Cost/Price Volume.  Under no circumstances shall this information and documentation be included
elsewhere in the proposal.

5.1.4 Pricing Template
The Cost/Price volume shall consist of a price/cost proposal outlining the proposed prices for each of the Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs) in
MS Excel Version 2000 or newer. The Government has provided a baseline 'Attachment J7 Pricing Template' that the Offerors shall utilize in
pricing their proposal.  Within the Attachment J7 Pricing Template, offerors are required to provide prices for all contract years for all open
CLINs, on the worksheet tab entitled "Link 38 Pricing Template."  With the exception of selected cells within the "Link 38 Pricing Template" tab
of Attachment J7 Pricing Template, the Pricing Template is protected by the government and offerors shall not unprotect, alter or add to the
Pricing Template in any manner not directed in the instructions.  A complete solution to meet the minimum requirements of the PWS and Proposal
Format must be demonstrated using the Government provided CLINs.  Offerors should not include additional technical data in Volume III -
Cost/Price to include Attachment J7 Pricing Template and any supplemental summaries. Technical data should only be included in Volume II of the
offeror's proposal.

5.2 Volume Organization
The Cost/Price volume shall consist of the following sections:
      SECTION 1 - Table of Contents.

      SECTION 2 - Pricing information and supporting data.  This shall include a completed Section B of the RFP and Pricing Template (Attachment
J7).

      SECTION 3 - Other information such as Government Furnished Property/Government Furnished Equipment (GFP/GFE).  List each exception to the
ground rules and assumptions provided in the solicitation and each qualification of the Price volume, if any.  Provide complete rationale for
any exceptions.

6.0 Volume IV –Contract Documentation

6.1 Representations and Certifications
The purpose of this volume is to provide information to the Government for preparing the contract document and supporting file.  The Offeror's
proposal must include a signed copy of the solicitation and completion of Sections A through K of the RFP.

Offerors must comply with the clause in Section I – 52.204-7 entitled “System for Award Management.” The Contracting Officer will check the
System for Award Management for the awardee and for those offerors who have been determined to be within the competitive range, should a
competitive range be determined to be necessary.  Offerors who are not registered in SAM will be advised of the need to register.  An offeror
may be determined ineligible for contract award if not registered within SAM at time of award.  Offerors also are also required to complete
additional representations, certifications, acknowledgments and statements reflected in Section K of this solicitation.

6.1.1 Section A-Solicitation/Contract Form
Offerors must complete blocks 17a and 26 and signature and date for blocks 30 a, b, and c of the Standard Form (SF) 1449.  Signature by the
offeror on the SF 1449 constitutes an offer, which the Government may accept.

6.1.2 Section B-Supplies or Services and Costs/Prices
Offerors must complete the pricing information in Section B of the RFP.

6.1.3 Section F - Deliveries or Performance
Offerors shall propose the delivery schedule in Section F of the RFP.

6.1.4 Section G - Contract Administrative Data
Offerors must complete “Contractor Point of Contact” in clause 52.204-9000.

6.1.6 Section I - Contract Clauses
See RFP.

6.1.7 Section K - Representations, Certifications, and other Statements of Offerors
See RFP.

6.2 Other Information Required

6.2.1 Authorized Offeror Personnel
Provide the name, title, and telephone number of the company/division point of contact regarding decisions made with respect to your proposal
and who can obligate your company contractually.   Also, identify those individuals authorized to negotiate with the Government.

6.2.2 Company/Division Address, Identifying Codes, and Applicable Designations
Provide company/division's street address, county and facility code; CAGE code; DUNS code; TIN; size of business (large or small); and labor
surplus area designation.  This same information must be provided if the work for this contract will be performed at any other locations.  List
all locations where work is to be performed and indicate whether such facility is a division, affiliate, or subcontractor, and the percentage of
work to be performed at each location.

6.2.3   Government Furnished Property (GFP)
The Contractor shall Engineer, Furnish, Install, Secure, and Test (EFIST) and make operational a new 100G 6500 P-OTN consisting of fiber,
amplifier and SDN locations detailed in the CONUS Site Specific Manufacturing Bill of Materials (MBOM) - Attachment J2. Equipment purchases in
“Attachment J2” will be Government Furnished Equipment (GFE).



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.204-7                |System for Award Management                                               |JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.212-1                |Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items                                |APR 2014         |                       |
|52.215-1                |Instructions to Offerors--Competitive Acquisition                         |JAN 2004         |                       |
|52.222-24               |Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation                  |FEB 1999         |                       |
|52.237-1                |Site Visit                                                                |APR 1984         |                       |
|252.239-7017            |Notice of Supply Chain Risk                                               |NOV 2013         |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.216-1     TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of a Firm Fixed Price contract resulting from this solicitation.

(End of provision)



52.233-2     SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any
protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by
obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Nicholas S. Friederich
DISA/DITCO/PL8224
2300 East Drive
Scott AFB, IL 62225-5406

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

(End of provision)



52.252-1     SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include
blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions,
the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the
full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):

http://farsite.hill.af.mil/

http://www.acquisition.gov/far/

(End of provision)



252.237-7024 NOTICE OF CONTINUATION OF ESSENTIAL CONTRACTOR SERVICES (OCT 2010)

(a) Definitions. Essential contractor service and mission-essential functions have the meanings given in the clause at
252.237-7023, Continuation of Essential Contractor Services, in this solicitation.

(b) The offeror shall provide with its offer a written plan describing how it will continue to perform the essential contractor services listed
in attachment J8, Mission Essential Contractor Services, dated 02/05/2015, during periods of crisis. The offeror shall--

(1) Identify provisions made for the acquisition of essential personnel and resources, if necessary, for continuity of operations for up to 30
days or until normal operations can be resumed;

(2) Address in the plan, at a minimum--

(i) Challenges associated with maintaining essential contractor services during an extended event, such as a pandemic that occurs in repeated
waves;

(ii) The time lapse associated with the initiation of the acquisition of essential personnel and resources and their actual availability on
site;

(iii) The components, processes, and requirements for the identification, training, and preparedness of personnel who are capable of relocating
to alternate facilities or performing work from home;

(iv) Any established alert and notification procedures for mobilizing identified ``essential contractor service'' personnel; and

(v) The approach for communicating expectations to contractor employees regarding their roles and responsibilities during a crisis.

(End of provision)


Section M - Evaluation Factors for Award

SECTION M
Evaluation Factors for Award


M001 SOURCE SELECTION

      a. Basis for Contract Award

Award will be made to the offeror whose proposal is determined to represent the overall best value to the government using a lowest-priced
technically acceptable evaluation process.  Source selection will be conducted in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15 as
supplemented by the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), and the DISA Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DARS).  These
regulations are available electronically at http://www.ditco.disa.mil/hq/aqinfo.asp and http://farsite.hill.af.mil.

The Government will make award based upon an acceptability assessment of compliance with solicitation requirements, technical/management, and
price.  To be eligible for award, the proposal must conform to the solicitation’s requirements (to include all stated terms, conditions,
representations, certifications, and all other information required by Section L of this solicitation).  The proposal must meet all technical
evaluation criteria set forth below in order to be determined technically acceptable.  The price proposed must be determined reasonable and the
Offeror must be deemed responsible in accordance with the FAR, as supplemented, in order to be eligible for award.  The Source Selection
Authority (SSA) will base the source selection decision on an integrated assessment of the proposal against all source selection criteria in the
solicitation (described below).

      b. Evaluation

The proposal should include all information the Offeror wants the Government to consider and evaluate regarding its company’s ability to perform
all required tasks and conform to all required terms and conditions.  The evaluation of the proposal will be based on the stated evaluation
factors.

After receipt of proposals, the Government will first evaluate the lowest price proposal.  If the lowest price proposal is determined to be
technically acceptable and otherwise properly awardable, no further evaluations will be conducted, and award will be made.  If, however, the
lowest price proposal is determined to be technically unacceptable and/or otherwise not properly awardable, further evaluations will be
conducted.

      c. Evaluation of Options

The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the base period.  The
Offeror shall submit pricing for the base period and all option periods, including option pricing for an additional six-month period that may be
authorized in accordance with FAR 52.217-8.  See FAR 52.217-8 which authorizes the Government to require continued performance of any services
within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  The pricing proposal should include a separate line item for the additional six-
month period in accordance with FAR 52.217-8.  These prices shall be identical to the proposed pricing in the six months prior to expiration of
the base period or the final option period, if option periods are present.  The total evaluated price will consist of the Offeror’s proposed
price for the base period, all option periods, and the option pricing for the additional six-month period.  The Government may determine that an
offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise
the option(s).

      d. Number of Contracts to be Awarded

The Government intends to award one (1) fixed-price contract; however, the Government reserves the right to make no award at all.

      e. Rejection of Offers

The Government may reject any proposal that is evaluated to be nonviable in terms of program commitments, contract terms and conditions.
Additionally, the Government may reject proposals that are exceptionally high or low in cost when compared to Government estimates, such that
the proposal is deemed to reflect an inherent lack of competence or failure to comprehend the complexity and risks of the program.

M002 EVALUATION FACTORS

     a. Evaluation Factors and Subfactors

            The following evaluation factors and subfactors will be used to evaluate each proposal.  An award will not be made to a proposal that
is not technically acceptable in all of the evaluation factors and subfactors described below.

      Factor 1: Technical/Management: In order to be found technically acceptable, the offeror must demonstrate its ability to perform in all of
      the following areas, including all Subfactors:


          Subfactor 1: Program Management (PWS Paragraph 6 (6.1-6.4))
          Subfactor 2: Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment (PWS Paragraph 6 (6.5-6.6))
          Subfactor 3: Operations and Maintenance (PWS Paragraph 6 (6.7-6.9))

      Factor 2: Price Factor




M003 EVALUATION CRITERIA

       a. Factor 1: Technical/Management Factor

           1) Subfactor 1: Program Management


In order for this subfactor to be rated Acceptable, the Offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their ability to provide the services and
deliverables required under PWS requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.1 – 6.4), Task Area 1:  Program management.  The contractor must be capable of
performing the program management activities defined in the PWS including program planning, design, coordination, control, reporting, and
meetings.

           2) Subfactor 2: Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment


In order for this subfactor to be rated Acceptable, the Offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their ability to provide the services and
deliverables required under PWS requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.5 and 6.6), Task Area 2: Implementation of a new 100G P-OTN segment.  The
contractor must be able to Engineer, Furnish, Install, Secure, Test (EFIST) and make operational a new 100G 6500 P-OTN consisting of fiber,
amplifier and SDN locations detailed in the CONUS Site Specific MBOM.  The proposal must demonstrate that the Offeror understands the scope and
complexity of meeting the Government requirements for repairing and replacing dark fiber detailed in the PWS and Functional Requirements
Specification (FRS), as well as the technical requirements detailed in the PWS and FRS.


The Offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their ability to acquire and provide acceptable tested and IRU fiber (2 strands) from:


    • Tinker Air Force Base (AFB), OK Building 3900 or 3001.  From Tinker AFB the route must connect to Fort Sill, OK Building 1645 or 462.


               • If Building 1645 is chosen as the starting point above, the route must continue from Fort Sill, OK, Building 462 and connect to
                 Barksdale AFB, LA (Building 3447 or 7212). If Building 462 is chosen as the starting point above, the route must continue from
                 Fort Sill, OK, Building 1645 and connect to Barksdale AFB, LA (Building 3447 or 7212).


    • From Barksdale AFB, LA the route must connect to Fort Polk, LA (bldg. 1830).


    • From Fort Polk, LA the route must terminate at Keesler AFB, MS (bldg. 1101).


           3) Subfactor 3: Operations and Maintenance


In order for this subfactor to be rated Acceptable, the Offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their ability to provide the services and
deliverables required under PWS requirements, Paragraph 6 (6.7 – 6.9), Task Area 3:  Operation and Maintenance and Sustainment services for
fiber and associated assets.  The offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their ability to provide and perform all the requirements necessary for
sustainment of all IRU assets and associated co-location facilities and equipment. This entails, but may not be limited to, backbone fiber,
associated co-location facilities, and end-to-end transmission for Service Delivery Nodes (SDNs) within commercial and Government facilities.

The proposal must demonstrate an Operations and Maintenance approach that provides the processes, procedures, and controls to ensure performance
and maintenance requirements of PWS will be met.  The proposal must address support for corrective and preventative maintenance 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, 365 days a year for fiber and associated facilities. Offeror must provide an equipment sparing plan that details how much spare
equipment will be required and managed for maintenance purposes based on, but not limited to, the equipment manufacturer’s failure rate Mean
Time Between Failures (MTBF), the response and restoral times, and the Contractor’s field experience.


      b. Price Factor

            (1) The offeror’s price proposal will be evaluated for award purposes based upon the total price proposed for basic requirements
(basic award) and all options, including option pricing for an additional 6-month period that may be authorized IAW FAR 52.217-8, as specified
in Schedule B and related pricing template (Attachment J7 Pricing Template) of the RFP.  The Cost/Price volume will consist of a Government-
provided Attachment J7 Pricing Template in Section J which shall be utilized by the Offerors for pricing their proposals.  With the exception of
selected cells within the "Link 38 Pricing Template" tab of Attachment J7 Pricing Template, the Pricing Template is protected by the Government
and offerors shall not unprotect, alter or add to the Pricing Template in any manner not directed in the instructions.

                 (2) Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise such options.

            (3) The offeror’s price proposal will be evaluated, using one or more of the techniques defined in FAR 15.404, in order to determine
if it is reasonable and complete.  Normally, price reasonableness is established through price analysis techniques as described in FAR 15.404.
For additional information see FAR 31.201-3.  For a price to be complete, all solicitation requirements must be priced, figures correctly
calculated and costs presented in the Government-provided pricing template.  Offerors should not include additional technical data in Volume III
- Cost/Price to include Attachment J7 Pricing Template and any supplemental summaries. Technical data should only be included in Volume II of
the offeror's proposal.

M004 SOLICITATION REQUIREMENTS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and
technical/management requirements, in addition to those identified as factors or subfactors.  Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of
the solicitation may result in the offeror being ineligible for award.


CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.217-5                |Evaluation Of Options                                                     |JUL 1990         |                       |

