<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSF33.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSF33.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)

May 24, 2010










































































































































































































































































































































































 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE

General Background

The Office of Research, Development, and Information (ORDI) provides leadership in producing information and analysis to help shape current and future directions of CMS programs and related policy decisions. 



ORDI staff helps improve CMS programs through: 

Expert consultation 

Program data and statistics 

Policy analysis 

Survey data and analyses 

Health services research 

Medicare and dual-eligible demonstrations 

Program evaluation findings 

Publications and information dissemination 

Research budget and support services 

Privacy oversight for external researchers 

Development of analytic databases and monitoring systems 



The primary users of our products are operational and policy staff within the Agency and the federal government. Other users of our products include the research community, states, providers, health plans, and beneficiaries and their families.



ORDI’s broad experience and expertise encompass all aspects of research, demonstrations, and policy analysis. We provide the organizational structure and systems to support the full range of research, demonstration, statistics, and dissemination activities. We turn research, concepts, and information into improved health care policy and practice.



Although ORDI’s primary business functions relate to research, Information Technology (IT) provides a key enabler of many of ORDI’s core activities.  IT is not ORDI’s core business, but virtually every interaction between ORDI and our business partners and customers depends on applications, systems, and processes employing IT.  



Previously, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services directed the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to develop a new demonstration initiative using Medicare waiver authority to reward the delivery of high-quality care supported by the adoption and use of electronic health records (EHR). The goal of the demonstration was to foster the implementation and adoption of EHRs and health information technology (HIT) more broadly as effective vehicles improve the quality of care provided and transform the way medicine is practiced and delivered.



ORDI directed the construction of an Internet enabled application/system to support the management, administration, data collection, data dissemination, reporting, and other critical activities required to implement and operate this demonstration. CMS’s decision to deploy the EHR Demonstration System (EHRDS) on the Internet was intended to facilitate data collection and validation,  streamline the process for the Electronic Health Record Demonstration activities, and  provide a framework to support the business processes of future research, demonstration, and information IT initiatives.  The EHRDS was constructed to support typical research, demonstration, and information business processes and provide capabilities that enable external entities to apply for the demonstration, register to access the system, and sign on to a secure web site to either manually input additional, patient specific information needed to calculate the quality measures, import data, or generate reports.  The system assigns specific data access roles to each external entity that ensures the entity only has access to the data specifically pertaining to the practice.  Although constructed to support the EHR Demonstration, the system was also designed specifically to be scalable, extensible, portable, and provide a framework for constructing and integrating IT applications that enable future research, demonstration, and information business processing requirements. The system has the capability to assign specific data access roles to each entity that ensures the entity only has access to the data specifically pertaining to that entity.



The EHRDS resides at the  in the CMS 3-zone environment and entities participating in the demonstration connect to the system through their Internet Service Providers.  The EHRDS complies with the CMS Target Reference Architecture and the CMS Internet Architecture.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the CMS IT standards URL.  

ORDI Business Functions Overview

Many existing ORDI demonstrations, evaluations, surveys, information, and research activities follow similar business processes. Typically, these processes include the following functions:



Identification of Eligible Beneficiaries for Demonstrations

Demonstrations have a select group of individuals who are eligible for participation.  Specific inclusion criteria are established, such as those pertaining to coverage (Medicare fee-for-service vs. managed care), entitlement (Part A and Part B), age, where a person lives, health status (presence of chronic condition), etc.  In some instances, specific inclusion criteria are used to identify certain individuals from the universe and a target sample is generated.  In other instances, the sampling universe is provided to an implementation contractor so that it may apply its own sampling methodology to create the target sample for the demonstration.  



Demonstration Enrollment

Demonstrations require processes for enrolling beneficiaries and for monitoring enrollment over time.  Demonstration providers usually have the responsibility for enrolling beneficiaries, and while they are often required to monitor enrollment over time, they are not always consistent and dependable.  In some demonstrations, the implementation contractor or CMS is involved in demonstration enrollment and monitoring. ORDI requires the capacity to develop and maintain the enrollment data based on information from demonstration providers for demonstrations that require this type of technical assistance.  Maintaining accurate information on enrollment is crucial for providing accurate payments for demonstration services and accurate data to the demonstration evaluator regarding participation.  The process for receiving enrollment data from a demonstration provider, checking it for consistency (e.g., includes Medicare number, first name, last name, date of birth, etc.), and creating an enrollment database are typically done ad hoc and require quite a bit of manual intervention.



Eligibility Verification

The eligibility of beneficiaries for demonstrations needs to be verified before payments can be processed to demonstration providers.  This involves taking an enrollment file and running it against a series of edits in the enrollment database (or another database, such as the Chronic Condition Warehouse (CCW) or Medicare Beneficiary Database (MBD)) to ensure beneficiaries who have enrolled are eligible for payment (e.g., not in MA, have both Part A and B, alive, etc.). Eligibility verification occurs upon the beneficiary’s initial enrollment in a demonstration and monthly thereafter.  Beneficiaries who lose eligibility need to be identified and removed from the enrollment file for the particular month.  Demonstration providers need to be notified of beneficiaries who have lost eligibility and been disenrolled from the demonstration payment system so that they may disenroll the beneficiaries from the demonstration.  The enrollment database needs to be updated monthly to reflect changes in eligibility as well as be able to maintain a history for each person who has ever been enrolled in the demonstration. 



Data Collection

CMS needs the capability to “acquire” clinical and other appropriate data necessary for program administration and improving health outcomes for beneficiaries at the point of service (provider setting). These systems shall include the capabilities for an entity to apply to access the system demonstration, register to access the system, and sign on to a secure web site to either manually input information or could use an “import” function to import the data.  The system shall assign specific data access roles to each entity that ensures the entity only has access to the data specifically pertaining to the practice.



Payment Calculation

Demonstration providers often have different payment rates.  The payment process must include programming separate payment information for each provider and have the capacity to allow for updates or changes in payment rates.  The process must also be able to calculate payment amounts for each eligible person each month and maintain a payment history for each participant in the demonstration, and for each demonstration provider.  



Report Generation & Data Access

Reports on enrollment, disenrollment, provider listings, and payment often help ORDI and demonstration providers monitor demonstration activities.  These reports can be generated both on an ad hoc basis and recurring schedules for monitoring. Different entities frequently need to perform periodic data extracts for their analysis



Program Integrity

Many demonstrations require periodic monitoring of spending under the demonstration, either in total or by sub-population or by subset of conditions and/or type of service, for the purpose of helping demonstration sites understand the impact of their interventions on their population or for the purpose of helping ORDI determine whether a demonstration should be terminated or extended. Most of this monitoring work has been done by customized applications, but it is preferred that such work be done in a more systematic fashion spanning the entire demonstration portfolio.



Surveys

One of the core functions of ORDI is to develop, implement, and analyze surveys of the populations and entities affected by CMS Programs. ORDI serves as center of expertise in survey methodology in that we develop and test innovative methods of data collection, measurement, storage, aggregation, and dissemination. The Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey (MCBS) and the Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) are surveys sponsored by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and directed by the Office of Research, Development and Information (ORDI). 



Many of the demonstration functions also reflect survey functions conducted by CMS.  The base tenets outlined above for the demonstration specific projects can also be applied to many of the surveys conducted by CMS. 



Data Dissemination

ORDI serves as a key resource for disseminating data to public and private researchers seeking to access CMS Medicare and Medicaid data. We help provide a point of contact for external entities seeking to obtain Medicare and Medicaid data. 

Demonstration & Evaluation IT Development & Operations

Historically, ORDI Research, Demonstration and Evaluation projects have independently sought their own IT solutions to meet the project’s needs.  Oftentimes this was done due to the fact that the existing CMS IT environment could not assist in meeting ORDI’s demonstration requirements.  IT had become more of an obstacle as opposed to an enabler.  Systems were developed piecemeal to meet project specific requirements and little effort was devoted to integrating efforts to reuse common functionality.  Oftentimes, very little consideration was given to whether or not the IT solution complied with Federal, HHS, or CMS standards, policies, and procedures.  



The fundamental limitation of this approach to systems is that it can never result in a foundation for effective business processes. Every demonstration and evaluation business process is dependent on the instincts, judgments, and attention of the person completing it.  Furthermore, if these research, demonstration and evaluation systems need to interface with existing CMS legacy systems, we need to spend more and more time trying to tie together systems and data that were designed independently.  The eventual patchwork of systems makes the business processes more susceptible to system’s outages and we find it increasingly difficult to respond to changing business conditions.  Additionally, this approach makes ORDI more susceptible to being out of compliance with various CMS and Federal mandates concerning security and privacy regulations (e.g. FISMA).



ORDI has begun establishing an integrated set of research, demonstration, and evaluation business processes and the appropriate capabilities to employ technologies, applications, and data to support these processes.  Although each demonstration and evaluation has unique requirements, core business processes still transcend demonstration boundaries that do not change so they can be used to define a reliable set of reusable IT-supported data and processes.  Business entities can apply different decision rules relating to specific demonstrations and evaluations, using the same business process other demonstrations and evaluations employ.  



Many demonstrations, evaluations, and research projects share business processes that follow a similar life cycle.  Report generation, monitoring and program integrity checks, evaluation analytics, eligibility identification, demonstration enrollment, eligibility verification, and payment calculation and reconciliation are business functions that apply to many demonstration projects.  The ultimate goal is to construct integrated systems that apply different decision rules relating to specific demonstrations, evaluations, and research projects, while at the same time reusing the same business process.  Because many of these systems should be Internet-based and will house sensitive and personally identifiable data, security is a crucial aspect of the system development.  We need to be concerned about the authentication of users, many of whom may be dispersed throughout the Medicare provider community.  We also need to be concerned about the transmission of sensitive financial (e.g. tax identification numbers) and health information over the Internet.

Data & Statistics Dissemination

ORDI maintains the Chronic Condition Warehouse (CCW) that houses data that are easily linked, at the individual patient level, for all Medicare claims data, eligibility data, nursing home and home health assessments, and CMS beneficiary survey data.  This data warehouse transforms and summarizes this administrative health insurance information into research data files.  Part of this process involved transforming diagnostic information on a beneficiary’s Medicare claims into information about their chronic medical conditions.  The data warehouse is designed to support research, policy analysis, quality improvement activities, and demonstrations that attempt to foster a better understanding of how to improve the quality of life and contain the health care costs of the chronically ill.  The data warehouse has become a critical enabling technology for ORDI individuals that provide the following capabilities:



Disseminating data to health services researchers studying ways to improve the quality and reduce the cost of care provided to chronically ill Medicare beneficiaries.

Reduce program spending by making current Medicare data more readily available to researchers studying chronic illness in the Medicare population.

Making data extraction from more efficient, allowing for data requests to be fulfilled in a timelier and more cost efficient manner.

Eventually, providing the same capabilities for Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) data.



ORDI also oversees the Research Data Distribution Center (RDDC) that serves as a key resource for disseminating data to public and private researchers seeking to access CMS Medicare and Medicaid data. We provide a single point of contact for external entities seeking to obtain Medicare and Medicaid data. 



In the last several years, CMS has seen an explosive demand for its data by internal and external customers.  However, the demand is not only for raw data, but also for timely and readily available information. The White House and Office of Management and Budget have given direction that we should move forward aggressively with efforts to make program data and information much more available and readily accessible to internal and external users.



CMS maintains the most comprehensive health care data resource anywhere and we are in a unique position to help catalyze a data-driven health care industry that can encourage high quality and efficient performance.  CMS is now moving in the direction of becoming an information-focused organization at the center of the federal health enterprise.

Data Dissemination

In addition to overseeing and maintaining the CCW and RDDC, ORDI has also been tasked with assisting in the integration of Medicare public use data sets into www.Data.gov.  This is a website developed by the Federal CIO Council as an interagency federal initiative to increase public access to high value, machine readable datasets generated by the executive branch of the federal government.  Many of these products were developed and are maintained by ORDI.  Recently, ORDI’s Statistical Supplement has been selected as one of the “Featured Tools” of the site.  One of the main intents of the site is to enable the public to participate in government by providing downloadable federal datasets to build applications, conduct analyses, and perform research. CMS plans to contribute a variety of data files, tools and extracts to Data.gov.  We will contribute data on a rolling basis as they are available. ORDI requires the capability to:



Design, develop, produce, and disseminate information products that will allow easy monitoring of program enrollment, utilization, payments, and performance of the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs.  

Design, develop, produce, and disseminate a variety of statistical and analytical data repositories containing Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP program information for use by the general public and research communities.

Design, develop, produce, and disseminate statistical tables, chart books and data tables of Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP program information.

Expands our information products, including public use files (PUF) and data, limited data sets (LDS), research identifiable files (), and enhanced information products produced through file linkages

Translate raw statistical data into files useful to technical researchers, website visitors, and the general public in understanding CMS programs, spending, and policies

Digital Journals

Previously, IMG created and published the Health Care Financing (HCF) Review, which provided a unique means for CMS to communicate with the health care provider, research, and policy communities on CMS initiatives, issues, and accomplishments.  The Review helped provide government, academia, and industry information on health care expenditures, enrollment, and utilization, and a forum for the discussion and evaluation of research projects to assess alternative financing and delivery systems for health care.  The Review also provided information on publications, studies, and conferences related to health care financing. 



ORDI recently made a determination to end the 30-year run of the HCF Review.  However, there is an opportunity to carry forward valuable functions of the hard copy HCF Review to a new (digital) medium.  ORDI researchers and analysts have skills and data access opportunities that could allow the agency to be among the first out of the gate in identifying significant issues, not only for research, but to inform the policy and lawmaking processes at a time when it would still have an impact. ORDI shall play a lead role in the design, development, production, and publication of Internet-based digital journals that communicate Research and Development (R&D) findings to Congress, the Administration, state & local government officials, academia, researchers, analysts, and other stakeholders.  ORDI shall be a key contributor in creating and operating a future peer-reviewed online journal reporting data and research that help shape current and future directions of the Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance programs.  The journal shall seek to examine and evaluate effective up-to-date health care coverage, quality and access to care for beneficiaries, and efficient payment for health services. These journals and associated IT systems shall also provide the following capabilities and features:



Communicate CMS R&D findings to Congress, the Administration, state & local government officials, academia, researchers, analysts, and myriad other stakeholders

Report data and research that help shape current and future directions of the Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance programs

Provide analytical narratives to accompany program data

Provide an outlet for CMS staff research

Provide “provisional research” or other preliminary analysis on current policy issues 

Examine and evaluate effective up-to-date health care coverage, quality and access to care for beneficiaries

Examine and evaluate effective efficient payment for health services

Provide support for the preparation, release and dissemination of ORDI products via electronic media and web publishing

Purpose

The purpose of this Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Cost Reimbursable contract is to assist the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) in providing information technology services to develop secure and integrated Internet-based software and database systems to support research, demonstration, and information activities.  The overarching system shall be referred to as the Research, Demonstration and Information System (RDIS) and shall be constructed and integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the EHRDS. This IDIQ will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination and analytics to support ORDI’s current and future portfolio of research projects. 



Because many of the components of the RDIS shall be Internet-based and may house sensitive and personally identifiable data, security is a crucial aspect of the system development.  CMS is concerned about the authentication of users, many of whom may be dispersed throughout the Medicare provider community.  CMS is also concerned about the transmission of sensitive financial (e.g. tax identification numbers) and health information over the Internet.



CMS’s decision to deploy the RDIS on the Internet is intended to ensure security and privacy requirements, streamline business processes, and facilitate data collection, validation, dissemination, reporting, and analytics.  The system will reside at the  in the CMS 3-zone environment.  The entities accessing system components will connect to the system through their Internet Service Providers.  By maintaining the system on the web and establishing a secure, centralized system, security concerns and problems presented by so many external entities might largely be avoided. 



The period of performance for this contract is five years; individual Task Orders will be issued during the five years from the effective date of award and may continue to be effective for five years after the Task Order’s effective date.  The RDIS IDIQ will cover the Information Technology Requirements, Project Management, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, and Operations tasks as they are determined.  

TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION

All system components will comply with the CMS Target Reference Architecture and the CMS Internet Architecture.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the CMS IT standards URL.  The Contractor will develop the system with standard (or future) CMS development software tools (ie: Java, Flex, etc.) and standard CMS Business Intelligence tools to use an Oracle and/or Teradata database.  



Because of the complexity and breadth of this effort, it is anticipated that multiple contracts will be awarded under this IDIQ to assist with the Information Technology (IT) design, implementation and operational activities, including but not limited to:  



IT Project Management

Requirements Analysis & Development

System Quality Assurance and Test 

System Architecture

System Engineering

System Integration

System Design

IT Application Design

System Programming

Database Design

Extract, Transform, & Load Design and Integration

Operations & Maintenance

IT Security

IT Infrastructure

 Architecture

Business Intelligence

Data & Statistical Information Dissemination

Technical Direction

Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the requirements of this SOW.



All work under this contract shall be performed under the general guidance and monitoring of CMS and is subject to CMS approval. The Contractor shall work closely with the CMS Contracting Officer Technical Representatives (COTRs), Government Task Leaders (GTLs) and Project Officer to accomplish all Government requirements described in this Statement of Work.



The Contractor shall serve in a consultative/collaborative capacity on an ongoing basis to address issues related to all IT aspects of the RDIS. This contract requires the Contractor to interact with CMS Federal personnel and contracting entities of multiple disciplines (contracting personnel, project management personnel, technical personnel, application development, etc.) that form a CMS team. Identification of the specific point-of-contact on the CMS team for specific situations has not been addressed in this document. This lack of a specific point-of-contact in no way affects any of the requirements the Contractor is required to perform. The Contractor shall be held accountable for positive and negative collaboration performance that advances or impedes the ability of CMS and CMS contractors to perform effectively. The Contractor is advised that specific use of the terms “CMS”, “Contracting Officer Technical Representative” (COTR), “Project Officer” (), “Contracting Officer” (CO), or “Government Task Lead” (GTL) in this document could denote one or more members of the CMS team.  The CO is the only CMS official who can approve requests for additional funds or authorize work not specified under this statement of work in this contract.  All contract changes must have the prior approval of the CO through the written contract modification.  

Contractor Security

The Contractor will be required to sign an Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) that describes the security requirements between the CMS Data Center (CMSDC) and the Contractor. The security requirements documented in this agreement will be the result of a Risk Assessment performed by CMS at the Contractor site.

The policies, standards, and procedures that govern the CMS Information Security Program have a two-fold purpose:  (1) to enable CMS’ business processes to function in an environment with adequate security protections; and (2) to meet the security requirements of Federal laws, regulations, and directives, including the Privacy Act of 1974 (as amended), HIPAA, and FISMA, as well as various rules, regulations, policies, and guidance developed by DHHS, OMB, Homeland Security and NIST.  Although all the documents are important in applying information security for CMS systems, the key ones include:

The CMS Policy for the Information Security Program

This policy aims to reduce the risk, and minimize the effect of security incidents and establishes the ground rules under which the CMS shall operate its information systems.  All CMS employees, contractors, sub-contractors, and their respective facilities supporting CMS business missions shall observe the individual policy statements. Some policies are explicitly for persons with a specific job function, e.g. the System Administrator; otherwise, all personnel supporting CMS business functions shall comply with the policies.  The CMS IS Program Policies address the reduction in risks to information resources through adoption of preventive measures and controls designed to detect any errors that occur.

CMS Information Security Acceptable Risk Safeguards (ARS)

The ARS reflects the minimum thresholds for information security controls based on the NIST SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and NISP SP 800-63, Electronic Authentication Guidelines.  These controls must be implemented to ensure that all CMS systems meet a minimum level of information security.

CMS Information Security (IS) Risk Assessment (RA) Methodology

This methodology presents a systematic approach for the Risk Assessment (RA) process of information systems within the CMS environment.  The IS RA provides an evaluation of current security controls to safeguard against the identified threat/vulnerability pairs and the resulting risks levels; and the recommended safeguards to reduce the system’s risk exposure with a revised residual risk level once the recommended safeguards are implemented.

CMS System Security Plan Methodology

This methodology is intended to serve as a tool for System Owners/Managers and System Maintainer/Managers in determining the SSP requirements of General Support Systems (GSS), Major Application (MA) systems and applications.  The SSP documents the current level of security within the system and is evaluated by the CMS Chief Information Officer (CIO).  Based on those controls currently implemented and documented in its SSP, the CIO determines whether or not the system will be granted authorization to process, i.e., accreditation.  Similarly, the SSP forms the primary reference documentation for testing and evaluation, whether by CMS, the GAO, the IG, or other oversight bodies.  The following web page should be referenced for more information regarding CMS’ Policy for the Information Security Program (PISP): .  The information on this web site is updated frequently to comply with the on-going directives of OMB, Homeland Security, the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Department of Health and Human Services.

 Connectivity

The Contractor shall be required to establish a network configuration within the Contractor site that enables establishing broadband connectivity between the Contractor site and the  within three months after contract award. The network configuration shall adhere to the security requirements established by CMS. CMS shall provide the funds for the actual broadband connection service costs.  The Contractor has the responsibility for the costs associated with establishing the internal network at the Contractor site.

On Site Availability

The Contractor shall be required to attend scheduled and impromptu meetings and conferences at the CMS facility on a regular basis.  The Contractor shall also be required to perform tasks that require their physical presence within the CMS data center and satellite telecommunications rooms on a scheduled and impromptu basis.  The Contractor must have the capability of arriving at the CMS facility for these types of activities within 60 minutes after being notified their presence is required on site.  Due to the nature of the work, this could occur several times over the course of a normal business day and may also take place on Federal holidays, weekends, and non core weekday hours.  It is estimated these types of activities could potentially consume 25% - 75% of their normal workday tour of duty for a business day.

Tour of Duty

CMS Core business hours for covered tasks are defined as between 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Friday, excluding Federal Holidays.  The Contractor shall be required to provide coverage for production systems during this time frame.  Due to the requirement to maintain system availability 24/7/365, it is expected that the contractor shall be able to provide service for this requirement when needed including on-call support.  This may require duty tours during Federal holidays and weekends, particularly when there is a need to perform tests for operating system, hardware, COTS software, and other CMS infrastructure related upgrades in addition to RDIS application specific upgrades and maintenance releases.  The Contractor is allowed to stagger shifts and provide flexible workplace options for contracting employees as long as the core hour coverage is maintained.

Computer Hardware & Software

The nature of the work necessitates the Contractor provide portable-computing devices to individuals engaged in CMS related DBA and DA tasks.  The Contractor must have the capability to access critical and sensitive data remotely outside of the CMS and Contractor physical facilities.  Remote access to the CMS computing infrastructure is mandatory.  The Contractor shall also be required at times to access the CMS computing infrastructure from within the CMS physical facilities.  CMS may or may not provide the computing resources to perform these tasks.

The Contractor shall be required to provide employees working on CMS tasks the capability to meet the portable computing requirements.  Dial-in remote access and on-site access to the CMS computing infrastructure shall only be granted to individuals possessing a Government approved Contractor-owned portable computing device.  To ensure accountability and auditability, these computers may not be shared between individuals.  The Contractor shall provide CMS an inventory detailing the computer identification numbers and individual assignments.  Portable computing devices in support of the CMS contract shall have the CMS standard desktop configuration and abide by the CMS Desktop Features and Specifications, which shall be provided by CMS.  The portable computing device must have the Microsoft Office Professional software suite installed, which shall be provided by the Contractor.

Personally owned computers are prohibited from connecting to the CMS network.

Task Order Management

The contractor shall provide skilled personnel together with the supervisory, managerial, and administrative services necessary to successfully meet the requirements of this task order. Personnel assigned by the contractor to perform work on the contract shall be acceptable to the Government in terms of personal and professional conduct and technical knowledge.  The contractor shall have a plan in place with the ability to retain and attract qualified personnel.    Replacement personnel qualifications shall be equal or greater than those of the personnel being replaced and will result in no increase in Task Order price.  Employment and staffing difficulties will not be a justification for the failure to meet established schedules.  

Contract Kick-Off Meeting	

The Contractor shall participate in an initial kick-off meeting hosted by CMS to discuss expectations.  The Kick-Off Meeting will be held at CMS’s , MD Central Office location on a mutually agreed upon date and time.  The Contractor shall develop and deliver a presentation for the Kick-Off Meeting that includes the following material:

Technical Approach Overview 

Introduction of Key Personnel

Other Topics as directed by CMS 

Monthly Status Report

The Contractor shall submit monthly administrative progress reports outlining all work accomplished during the previous month.  At a minimum, such reports shall cover the following items:



Activities during the month (data collection activities, problems encountered and potential future problems, actual and possible delays in deliverables, etc.);

Activities planned for the forthcoming month;

Contractor expectations of the  or other CMS staff during the forthcoming month (review of deliverables submitted, delivery of data or other items);

A financial report, including past month expenditures, to-date expenditures, and significant deviations from planned expenditures.  This is to include a discussion of planned versus actual resource consumption by major task area.  Discrepancies of greater than 10 percent (i.e. cost overruns or underruns) shall be noted. To the extent actual expenses for the period are not yet available (e.g. for sub-contractors), an estimate of incurred expenses shall be provided in order to more closely manage total project costs; and

A brief discussion of substantive findings during the previous month, if any. 



Each monthly report shall be submitted electronically within 10 days following the end of the month and one copy shall accompany the Contractor's voucher that is sent to the CMS contract officer.  Vouchers will not be processed without submission of a monthly progress report.

Earned Value Management

At the Government’s discretion, the Contractor shall maintain an earned-value management system (EVMS) that uses criteria acceptable to the CMS GTL and Project Officer.  The EVMS shall correlate cost and schedule performance with technical progress while performing all tasks and shall be capable of producing a project level (includes all project related contract costs) EVM status report both on demand and at predefined intervals using a format acceptable to the CMS GTL.

Project Status Review

The Contractor may be required to lead or participate in ad hoc Project Status Reviews with CMS senior management.  The Project Status Reviews may include:



An overview of the project status with a focus on outstanding issues and risks; 

Identification of Critical Path Milestones;

Identification of issues needing resolution by CMS; and

Identification of decisions needed from CMS.

Interfacing Contracting Entities

The Contractor shall serve in a consultative/collaborative capacity on an ongoing basis to address issues related to all IT aspects of the RDIS. This IDIQ contract requires the Contractor to interact with CMS Federal personnel and contracting entities of multiple disciplines (contracting personnel, project management personnel, technical personnel, application development, etc.) that form a CMS team, headed by the COTR.  The contractors must work together and in collaboration with various components within CMS to support the requirements and goals of the RDIS.  Representative interfacing entities are detailed below.

IT Technical & Requirements Management Contractor



The IT Technical & Requirements Management Contractor will provide IT project and technical management support services to assist in the planning, definition, design, testing, and quality assurance of IT related functionality.  

IT Development, Operations, & Maintenance Contractor 



The IT Development, Operations, & Maintenance Contractor shall be responsible for the development of an Internet-based systems that will facilitate data dissemination, statistical publications, demonstration enrollment, and demonstration application data collection activities.; Additionally, the Internet-based system will be responsible for incorporating  demonstration payment, demonstration and evaluation reporting and analytics, and streamlining and improving data security for collection of clinical quality data.  

Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER) IT Development, Operations, & Maintenance Contractor 



The CER IT Development, Operations, & Maintenance Contractor shall be responsible for the development of Internet-based systems that facilitate data dissemination for comparative effectiveness research.  

CER Research Development Contractor 



The CER Research Development Contractor shall be responsible for conducting comprehensive research on re-identifying Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) de-identified datasets.  

Office of Information Services (OIS) Support Contractors



The OIS Support Contractors shall be responsible for establishing the physical environment within the CMS data center, providing Business Process Modeling (BPM) support, identity management support, and a host of other critical IT infrastructure and IT support tasks.  

 Contractor (RESDAC)



ResDAC is a CMS contractor that provides assistance to researchers in understanding how to use CMS data and how to request CMS data. 

Chronic Condition Warehouse (CCW)/ (RDDC) Contractors



The CCW/RDDC contractors are currently employed by Buccaneer Computer Systems & Service, Inc. (BCSSI). The contractors will provide support for the Chronic Condition Warehouse Database and fulfill research requests using identifiable data, Limited Data Sets (LDS) which are partially de-identified data, and Public Use Files (PUF). 

Key Assumptions & Constraints

Some of the key assumptions and constraints for the RDIS components and for this contract are listed below.  



ORDI is the Business Owner for the RDIS components.

All RDIS components will reuse current EHRDS and CMS systems and technology to the maximum extent possible.

CMS will develop the different RDIS components in incremental releases.  Each major release will implement a defined set of functionality for the program.

Based on the gap analysis and high level implementation planning, CMS will define the scope of each release and provide direction to the Contractor.

To the extent applicable, all projects shall follow the CMS Lifecycle Framework.  Additionally, all releases will follow the CMS Life Cycle Framework.  Each release will build on prior releases’ life cycle documentation (i.e., the Contractor will not need to create completely new documentation for each release).

All RDIS components will either use CMS’ Enterprise Identity Management and Authentication Service, referred to as the Individuals Authorized Access to the CMS Computer Systems (IACS), or an alternative approach as designated by OIS.   

The Identity Management and Authentication Services will store user identification information

All deliverables, reports, data, or information either generated as a result of performance under this contract or provided to the Contractor or to any subcontractor or consultant are subject to the restrictions found in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.227-17 Rights in Data – Special Works clause.  

The Contractor will be capable of working under aggressive time constraints and in coordination with the Office of Information Services (OIS) Support Contractors and CMS to successfully fulfill the requirements of this contract.

Many RDIS components will be Internet-based.  The system components will be accessed and data will be submitted over the Internet using a standard Internet browser.  

Licenses for CMS-standard software will be obtained under existing OIS or ORDI contracts.   

All hardware and network infrastructure will be obtained under existing OIS or ORDI contracts.   

The Contractor will collaborate with other OIS contractors responsible for the   , database administration, infrastructure and network support to install and implement the RDIS components in the  and IT environment.

The RDIS components must be functionally scalable and expandable to meet future business needs and must enable rapid integration of clinical and technical specification changes over time. 

The RDIS components will comply, to the extent possible, with standardized Health Information Technology (HIT) terminology, taking into consideration the Consolidated Health Informatics (CHI) terminology standards proposed by the Federal Government and adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. 

When applicable, RDIS components will be approved by the Executive Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and meet all Paperwork Reduction Act requirements. 

The contractor shall not design, implement, or maintain any customized or proprietary utilities without prior approval in writing from the Project Officer (PO).

The contractor shall receive prior approval, in writing, from the  before introducing any new Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) products or proprietary utilities.  

All products, including software and all utilities (proprietary and non-proprietary) developed to support the activities and deliverables of this contract, are the property of CMS.  The contractor shall deliver all products, including software, utilities (proprietary and non-proprietary), and deliverables of this contract at the request of CMS or upon termination of this contract.  The Contractor is also required to deliver all source and object code required for the implementation of the Internet-based system (ie: jsp, sql scripts, etc.)

The contractor shall provide contractor staff training on software and tools that are not unique to CMS and are required for this contract. (For example: WebSphere, Oracle, JAVA).

The contractor shall provide training to CMS staff on contractor unique software and tools, upon CMS request.

CMS shall provide training to contractor staff on CMS unique software and tools that are required for this contract, upon contractor request.

All documentation shall be created using CMS standard methodologies and formats.

The contractor shall use the current CMS standard desktop suite for all deliverables. 

All deliverables developed by the contractor shall be made accessible in accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as stated in Section J.13 (Section 508 Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology). 

Where timeframes are stated, CMS may choose to give consideration to unforeseen circumstances. Therefore, deliverable due dates are as stated unless otherwise agreed to by CMS and the contractor. Throughout this document, unless specifically denoted as workday(s), all timeframes are in calendar days, calendar weeks, and calendar months.

The duration of this contract is an initial 1 year base period with an optional one year extension (up to 4 extensions) for a maximum contract length of 5 years. (1 year base period plus 4 one year options). 

STANDARDS, POLICIES, & PROCEDURES

The Research IT Development Contractor shall comply with all Federal, HHS, and CMS standards, policies, and procedures referenced in this SOW.  In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and this SOW, the SOW shall take precedence.

Federal Standards, Policies, and Procedures

The Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below.  

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)

OMB Circular A-130 Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, "Security of Federal Automated Information Systems"

MIL-HDBK-881 - Department of Defense Handbook, Work Breakdown Structure

DI-MGMT-81466 - Cost Performance Reporting

MIL-HDBK-61 - Configuration Management Guidance

ANSI/EIA Standard 748, Industry Guidelines for Earned Value Management Systems

Privacy Act of 1974 

Pubic Law 93-579, as amended

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards

29 U.S.C 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

36 CRF 1194 (508 Standards)

www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm (508 standards) 

OMB M-06-16 (New Encryption requirements for sensitive data)

NIST 800-53 (Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems) 

CMS Integrated IT Investment & System Life Cycle Framework

The Contractor shall adhere to the CMS Integrated IT Investment & System Life Cycle Framework.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the CMS SDLC Framework URL.  This framework establishes the multi-phased life cycle of system development at CMS and specifies the required checkpoints, artifacts, and activities.  

CMS IT Standards

The Contractor shall adhere to all CMS IT standards as published on the CMS Internet or as communicated to the Contractor by the GTL.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the CMS IT standards URL.  

CMS Information Security

The central tenet of the CMS Information Security (IS) Program is that all CMS information and information systems shall be protected from unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse, or theft—whether accidental or intentional.  The security safeguards to provide this protection shall be risk-based and business-driven with implementation achieved through a multi-layered security structure.  All information access shall be limited based on a least-privilege approach and a need-to-know basis, i.e., authorized user access is only to information necessary in the performance of required tasks.  Most of CMS's information relates to the health care provided to the nation’s Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and as such, has access restrictions as required under legislative and regulatory mandates.  

The CMS IS Program has a two-fold purpose: 

(1)	To enable CMS’s business processes to function in an environment with commensurate security protections, and 

(2)	To meet the security requirements of federal laws, regulations, and directives.

The principal legislation for the CMS IS Program is Public Law (P.L.) 107-347, Title III, Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), .  FISMA places responsibility and accountability for IS at all levels within federal agencies as well as those entities acting on their behalf.  FISMA directs Office of Management and Budget (OMB) through the Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), to establish the standards and guidelines for federal agencies in implementing FISMA and managing cost-effective programs to protect their information and information systems.  As a contractor acting on behalf of CMS, this legislation requires that the Contractor shall:

Establish senior management level responsibility for IS,

Define key IS roles and responsibilities within their organization,

Comply with a minimum set of controls established for protecting all Federal information, and

Act in accordance with CMS reporting rules and procedures for IS.

Additionally, the following laws, regulations and directives and any revisions or replacements of same have IS implications and are applicable to all CMS contractors.

P.L. 93-579, The Privacy Act of 1974,  , (as amended);

P.L. 99-474, Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986,    P.L. 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1978, as amended in 1995, U.S. Code 44 Chapter 35, ;

P.L. 104-208, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act), ; 

P.L. 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Kennedy-Kassenbaum Act) ;

OMB Circular No. A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, December 21, 2004, ;

OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 30, 2000, ; 

NIST standards and guidance, ; and,

Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) regulations, policies, standards and guidance 

These laws and regulations provide the structure for CMS to implement and manage a cost-effective IS program to protect its information and information systems.  Therefore, the Contractor shall monitor and adhere to all IT policies, standards, procedures, directives, templates, and guidelines that govern the CMS IS Program,  and the CMS System Lifecycle Framework, .  

The Contractor shall comply with the CMS IS Program requirements by performing, but not limited to, the following:

Implement their own IS program that adheres to CMS IS policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines, as well as industry best practices; 

Participate and fully cooperate with CMS IS audits, reviews, evaluations, tests, and assessments of contractor systems, processes, and facilities;

Provide upon request results from any other audits, reviews, evaluations, tests and/or assessments that involve CMS information or information systems;

Report and process corrective actions for all findings, regardless of the source, in accordance with CMS procedures;

Document its compliance with CMS security requirements and maintain such documentation in the systems security profile;

Prepare and submit in accordance with CMS procedures, an incident report to CMS of any suspected or confirmed incidents that may impact CMS information or information systems; and

Participate in CMS IT information conferences as directed by CMS.

If the contractor believes that an updated IS-related requirement posted to the CMS website may result in a significant cost impact (e.g., over 2 percent of annual contract cost), the contractor may submit a request for equitable cost adjustment before implementing change.

HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules  

The Contractor is considered a business owner to CMS and must meet the requirements of the Privacy and Security regulations as it relates to protecting and releasing personally identifiable protected health information, (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)). 



All Contractors who access CMS data that is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a (P.L. 93-579) shall sign and adhere to a CMS Data Use Agreement (DUA), which is available for downloading from the CMS website at: 



.  



An executed Data Use Agreement is a prerequisite for any contractors that require access to such data.  The Contractor shall be required to sign and adhere to a CMS Data Use Agreement before any data is accessed by the Contractor. If subcontractors are used for any Task requiring access to covered data, each subcontractor must also submit a DUA request.

Section 508 Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology

These task orders are subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220).  Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without  disabilities.  



The EIT accessibility standards at 36 CFR Part 1194 were developed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance  Board ("Access Board") and apply to contracts and task/delivery orders, awarded under indefinite quantity contracts on or after  June 25, 2001.



Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194), as specified in the contract, as a minimum.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing.  The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing.  If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following recourses:

Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase or line item without termination liabilities; or 

In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed by a contractor for the Government, the Government shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm for the noncompliant EIT, with the contractor liable for reimbursement to the Government for any expenses incurred thereby.

The contractor must ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant with the accessibility standards are provided pursuant to extensive market research and are the most current compliant products or services available to satisfy the contract requirements. 

For every EIT product or service accepted under this contact by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either a contract specified refresh cycle for the product or service, or on a contract effective option/renewal date; whichever shall occur first.



Section 508 Compliance for Communications

The Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below.  In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and the Task Order, the Task Order shall take precedence.



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508 Accessibility Standards

1.      29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

2.      36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

3.       (508 Standards)

4.      FAR 39.2 (Section 508)

5.      CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)



In addition, all contract deliverables are subject to these 508 standards as applicable.

Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced, including text, audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including subcontractors) or consultants responsible for preparing or posting content must comply with applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents above. Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the Task Order shall be the responsibility of the contractor or consultant.



The following Section 508 provisions apply to the content or communications material identified in the Task Order:



36 CFR Part 1194.21 a - l 

36 CFR Part 1194.22 a - p

36 CFR Part 1194.31 a - f

36 CFR Part 1194.41 a – c



The contractor shall provide a completed Section 508 Product Assessment Template and the contractor shall state exactly how proposed EIT deliverable(s) meets or does not meet the applicable standards.



The following Section 508 provisions apply for software development material identified in the Task Order:



For software development, the Contractor/Developer/Vendor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards

(1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)



(2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.21 (a – l)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.31 (a – f)

  	     36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)



(3)  (508 Standards)



(4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508)



(5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	    a. Information Technology – General Information

      	   ()



For web-based applications, the Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards



(1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)



(2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.22 (a – p)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)



(3) (508 Standards)



(4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508)



(5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	     a. Information Technology – General Information

       	     ()

SERVICES SCOPE

RDIS IT Project and System Management Services

The Contractor shall perform all system development related project management including technical and business management functions, in order to plan, implement, track, report, and deliver the required system.  The Contractor shall manage all aspects of the RDIS in compliance with CMS project management and OIS Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) standards.



The Contractor shall be responsible for all project management controls, quality assurance, technical reviews, and document artifacts. Project Management functions will include: 

Planning; 

Schedule development and maintenance; 

Meeting management; 

Issues Tracking; 

Risk Analysis and Mitigation; 

Technical and Quality Reviews; 

Status Reporting; 

Communication Assurance; and 

Project Charter.  



The Contractor shall also be responsible for coordinating and producing project level earned value management reports.



As directed by the GTL, the Contractor shall provide technical evaluation and direction consistent with long-term project objectives, OIS standards, and industry software development best practices. The Contractor shall provide technical analysis and evaluation support where deemed necessary by the GTL, including support in the following areas: High-level System Concept for Technical Review Board (TRB); Design Elements; System Design; Preliminary Design Review (PDR); Detailed Design Review (DDR); Code Review; Implementation Readiness Review (IRR); and Operational Readiness Review (ORR).



The Contractor shall develop and deliver a Project Management Plan (PMP) and shall perform in accordance with the CMS-approved PMP.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final PMP according to the Deliverables Schedule.  The Contractor shall update and maintain the PMP throughout the life of the contract.

Communications Plan

Effective communication can make the difference between success and failure in any kind of project. The Contractor shall participate in the creation of a RDIS communication plan designed to provide everyone involved in the project a general framework for development activities project communications.  The communications plan shall include guidelines for project communications amongst all project stakeholders.  The Contractor shall adhere to all direction outlined in the communication plan.

Project Schedule

The Contractor shall provide and maintain a baseline project schedule.  The schedule shall be created using CMS’s current version of Microsoft Project. The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final Project Schedule according to the Deliverables Schedule.  The Contractor shall update and maintain the Project Schedule throughout the life of the contract.  

Risk Management

The Contractor shall provide data and identify, analyze, and prioritize the areas of the software development project that involve potential technical, security, project, cost, or schedule risks; develop strategies for managing those risks; record the risks and strategies in the PMP; and implement the strategies in accordance with the approved plan.  The Contractor shall perform risk management throughout the life of the contract. 

Project Status & Technical Meetings

Project Status Meetings shall be conducted between the Contractor, the COTR, the GTL, and the Project Officer.  Other internal and external CMS stakeholders may be invited to attend at the GTL’s discretion.  Meetings will be held bi-weekly, at a minimum, and may be more frequent at the GTL’s discretion.  The meetings will be held at a location designated by CMS.



The Contractor shall participate at the GTL’s discretion in scheduled and ad hoc meetings with the other CMS components and contractors involved in the Research, Demonstration, and Information System.  At these meetings, CMS and its contractors will coordinate the integrated project schedule, communicate the occurrence of key project milestones, and address project issues and risks affecting the integrated RDIS project.  These meetings will also serve as a forum for collaboration and cooperation of the various contractors involved in the Research, Demonstration, and Information System.



All meetings will be held at CMS or by conference call, at CMS’s discretion.  

Meeting Agendas and Minutes

The Contractor shall attend and conduct project meetings and prepare agendas as directed by the GTL.  Agendas shall be submitted to the GTL at least one business day before the meeting is to occur.  The Contractor shall prepare and provide Meeting Minutes.  The Meeting Minutes shall contain: 



The meeting date(s);

The participants of the meeting;

Purpose of the meeting;

Decisions reached during the meeting; and

Action items identified (including party responsible for action and due date for action to be completed).



The Contractor shall record meeting minutes and submit them to the GTL within two business days after the meeting.  CMS reserves the right to modify the minutes prior to approval.

RDIS IT Requirements Development Services

The Contractor shall work in conjunction with RDIS stakeholders to gather the business requirements, and the first cut of the functional and nonfunctional requirements, for the RDIS. This may entail establishing and participating in some Joint Application Design (JAD) sessions with both internal and external CMS stakeholders.  

Business Process Models (BPMs)

The Contractor shall participate in creating a Business Process Model which describes the system’s characteristics from a business process point of view.  The RDIS BPMs shall depict the end-to-end flow of the related business processes.

Concept of Operations (CONOPs)

The Contractor shall participate in creating a Concept of Operations which describes the system’s characteristics from a user’s point of view.  The RDIS Concept of Operations document shall describe the desired characteristics of the system from the user’s viewpoint and shall identify the proposed system and a brief overview of the system.

Gather and Document Business, Functional, and Nonfunctional Requirements



The Contractor shall gather the business requirements, and the first cut of the functional and nonfunctional requirements. This may entail coordinating and facilitating some JAD sessions with both internal and external CMS stakeholders.  The Contractor shall specifically define and document within these requirements the business needs “shall statement,” functional, and nonfunctional requirements, as well as high-level events and scenarios. The requirements will assist in the transition to design definition.



The Contractor shall gather and write the requirements such that they are correct, complete, clear, consistent, testable, traceable, feasible, modular, and design-independent.  The Contractor shall ensure that these requirements capture the required technical capabilities and constraints of the system being developed.   



The Contractor shall participate in defining the requirements to be met by the system and the methods to be used to ensure that each requirement has been addressed by the system.  In conjunction with the business stakeholders, the Contractor shall document the following:



 Documenting Events

 Creating Scenarios/Use Cases

 Writing Functional Requirements

 Writing Nonfunctional Requirements

 Determining Pass/Fail Statements

Requirements Document

The Contractor shall deliver the Application Requirements Document (RD).  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final RD according to the Deliverables Schedule.  The Contractor shall use the CMS Requirements Writer's Guide () for guidance on preparing the RD.  

Requirements Review

The Contractor shall conduct a formal review of the RD with CMS staff.  The purpose of this review is to affirm final agreement regarding the content of the RD.  Upon successful completion of this review, the RD shall be the baseline. The Contractor shall secure signatures from all major stakeholder components, indicating approval of the final RD, to ensure that there is clear agreement on the scope and outcomes of the project. The Contractor shall manage the RD baseline.  Following establishment of the baseline, changes to the RD will require CMS approval. In addition, the Contractor shall notify CMS if changes to the RD will impact contract cost or schedule. The Contractor shall prepare presentation materials for the Requirements Review.  The Contractor shall prepare a draft of the presentation material to CMS according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

Requirements in DOORS

The requirements management tool at CMS is DOORS and CMS recommends its use for storing and managing requirements. If the Contractor uses a tool other than DOORS, the Contractor shall use a tool that will generate formats that are importable into DOORS. Microsoft Excel can produce importable formats if the spreadsheet is saved as a comma delimited file.  Microsoft Word can produce importable formats if appropriate heading styles are used. The Contractor shall deliver either the appropriate DOORS modules or a softcopy of the requirements in a format that is importable into DOORS.  In either case, all applicable links between requirements shall be established.  The Contractor shall deliver the Application requirements baseline in DOORS or in a format that is importable into DOORS according to the Deliverable Schedule.  The Contractor shall update the requirements in DOORS or provide the updated requirements in a format that is importable into DOORS at the GTL’s direction.

RDIS IT Development Services

System Engineering/System Integration

The RDIS shall be an extremely complex IT system that interfaces with many other key CMS IT enterprise systems and possesses many unique requirements. The Contractor shall be responsible for the system engineering/system integration activities required to design and coordinate RDIS development and operations.  System engineering/system integration roles include:



Performing the efforts to translate the research operational  into  RDIS  and  ; incorporating all physical and   to  an  ; and ing  such as , , , and  to meet , performance, and  .

Deploying the RDIS in an operational setting and provide for maintenance over time.

Ensuring the design of the complex interrelation of many RDIS elements is maximized to an agreed-upon measure of system performance, taking into consideration all of the elements related in any way to the system, including utilization of IT hardware and software resources as well as the characteristics of each of the RDIS components. 

Defining, developing, and deploying of technological products, services, or processes that support functional objectives and fulfill needs.

Researching and identifying the problem space, associated technical solutions, security framework, and IT architectural design of the RDIS. 

Coordinating the work of many IT engineers and specialists, each of whom is an expert in one part of a system.

Incorporating the appropriate IT technology into the RDIS and managing the change when one part affects many others. 

Design Reviews

Preliminary Design Review

The Contractor shall participate in a Preliminary Design Review (PDR).  During the PDR, in conjunction with other project partners, the Contractor shall present the Requirements Document  (RD), the SDD, the DDD, the ICD, the Identity Management workflows, the Test Plan, and the initial versions of the ISRA and MA SSP.  The PDR is conducted to achieve confidence that the design accurately satisfies the requirements, and the documentation is complete and consistent with CMS’s standards.  The Contractor will document the results and outputs from the PDR.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft of the PDR documentation and presentation materials according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

Other Design Reviews

The Contractor shall conduct other design reviews as directed by the GTL.  The design reviews may include:



Detailed Design Review (DDR) prior to coding.  The DDR is conducted to achieve confidence that the detailed design captures the agreed upon functionality and is sufficient to support a basis for coding.  

Interim design reviews as needed.   



The Contractor shall prepare drafts of the presentation material for all review to CMS according to the Deliverables Schedule.

Implementation Readiness Review

An Implementation Readiness Review (IRR) shall be conducted at the end of development just prior to transitioning the system into the Implementation and Testing phase.  The purpose of the IRR is to ensure that the system that has been developed is ready for implementation activities, such that the required system hardware, networking and telecommunications equipment, COTS, Government off-the-shelf (GOTS), or custom-developed software; and database(s) can be installed and configured in the CMS test and production environments.  The Contractor shall plan and take part in the IRR.  

Operational Readiness Review

The Operational Readiness Review (ORR) occurs before the system is released into the production environment.  This review determines if everything has been accomplished in anticipation of the system becoming live in production. The Contractor shall take part in the ORR.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft of the presentation materials according to the Deliverables Schedule.

System Certification and Accreditation

The Contractor shall support the CMS Business Owner with the System Certification and the System Accreditation for the RDIS.

Closeout Certifications

The Contractor shall prepare closeout certifications. These shall consist of a statement that the contract is complete which will include communications that all deliverables have been provided, all services are complete, and there are no outstanding contractual issues.  There will also be formal signoff by the components in CMS involved and also the Contractor project manager.

Application Development

The Contractor shall design the software components, interfaces, the identity management workflows, and the physical database for the RDIS.  The system shall be designed to reside in and comply with CMS’s 3-zone environment.  The Contractor shall document the system design and allocate the system requirements in the Requirements Document to the design elements.  The Contractor shall develop and document the software.  The Contractor shall work with CMS to determine at what point in the development phase the system will be installed in the CMS development environment.

Software Code

The Contractor shall develop the required software to meet the validated requirements. The deliverable shall include a softcopy of all developed software, including source code and executables. This shall include any operational software, test software, scripts and data that have been developed.  The Contractor shall develop and record software corresponding to each software component. This activity shall include, as applicable, coding computer instructions and data definitions, building databases, populating databases and other data files with data values, and other activities needed to implement the design. For deliverable software, the Contractor shall obtain CMS approval to use any programming language not specified in the contract.  

Application Help System

When applicable, the Contractor shall develop a help system to provide immediate help to the users of the Demonstration System. The help system shall adhere to standard industry user interface guidelines.  

Version Description Document

The Contractor shall provide a Version Description Document (VDD) in hardcopy and softcopy. The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final VDD according to the Deliverables Schedule.

Configuration Management  

The Contractor shall implement Configuration Management (CM) for the RDIS.  The Contractor shall adhere to CMS’s standards and policies for CM.  CMS uses MKS as the CM tool for applications in its 3-zone environment.  The Contractor shall perform CM for the system throughout the life of the contract.  

System Design Document

The Contractor shall prepare the System Design Document (SDD) based on the functional and nonfunctional requirements documented in the Requirements Document and the preliminary data design documented in the Logical Data Model.  The SDD shall include proposed screen shots for the system indicating the data elements to be captured on each screen and the screen flow and path logic.  The SDD shall include all documentation required by the  for system implementation planning efforts.  The Contractor shall use the contents of the SDD as the basis for subsequent system development activities.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final SDD according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

Interface Control Document

The Contractor shall prepare an Interface Control Document (ICD). The ICD shall document the physical design of the internal interfaces among the software components, and of the external interfaces between the system and other CMS systems.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final ICD according to the Deliverables Schedule.

Identity Management Workflow

The Contractor shall deliver the RDIS workflow identifying the various user roles and hierarchies.  The Contractor shall work with the CMS identity management team to ensure that the system workflow interfaces with the designated CMS identity management system through the OIS designated API.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final IACS Workflow document according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

Quality Assurance and Testing

The Contractor shall conduct unit and system testing in the CMS test environment.  System testing includes the following activities to ensure that the system meets all requirements and expectations:



Functional: verification that the entire system meets documented requirements.

Usability: the capability of the software to be understood, learned, used and attractive to the user when used under specified conditions.

508 Testing: activities to ensure that an application’s user interface complies with Section 508 accessibility guidelines.

Software Product Section 508 Compliancy Checklist

The IT Technical Management Contractor shall complete and deliver the Software Product Section 508 Compliancy Checklist.  Subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow all Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities.   The IT Technical Management Contractor shall ensure that the system adheres to the specified standards and the checklist is completed. 

Usability Testing

The Contractor shall provide plans to conduct a series of formal usability tests.  These one-on-one tests will be conducted with representatives from the actual user population of the RDIS system.  The Contractor will deliver a usability testing report (or embed as a separate section in a more general testing report) based on the findings of the usability tests to the GTL.

Unit Testing

The Contractor shall document and execute unit test cases and collaborate with the Technical Management Contractor to ensure adequate test cases are developed.  Following the execution of each unit test, the Contractor shall document the results in a Unit Test Summary Report.

Integration & Load Testing

The Contractor shall work with the OIS Support Contractors to integration and load test the RDIS to evaluate its compliance with the specified requirements and CMS standards.  The Contractor shall use the CMS standard tools for testing as specified in the CMS Target Reference Architecture.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the CMS Target Reference Architecture URL.  Following the execution of each integration and load test, the Contractor shall work with the OIS Support Contractors to document the results in an Integration/Load Test Summary Report.

Performance & Tuning

The Contractor shall modify system and software products to rectify performance deficiencies identified during testing new development or major enhancements.  The Contractor shall perform security self assessments, code fixes and maintenance, and correct procedures based upon defects found and coordinate updates to existing work products and work products created within this Performance and Stress Test Services task with CMS. 

Operational Readiness Validation 

The Contractor shall collaborate with CMS and its data center contractor for operational readiness validation. Operational readiness validation consists of activities to ensure that the system is ready to be released to a production environment. The Contractor shall create and provide an Implementation Plan and Operator’s Manual for this activity.



Operational readiness validation will involve the following:



Installation Testing: Activities designed to ensure that the software and hardware can be configured properly in the production environment. Installation testing also involves validating that configuration management procedures and technology are ready for production.

Startup and Shutdown Testing: Activities designed to ensure that operational personnel (i.e., the current CITIC at CMS) can bring the system up and down gracefully without the assistance of the Contractor.

Backup and Restore Testing: Activities designed to ensure that operational staff can backup the system files and databases and restore to a point in time.

Procedure Validation: Activities designed to ensure that operational procedures are sufficient to migrate a system release to production. Key procedures requiring validation are: help desk process, escalation process, and a system procedure manual (also referred to a Concept of Operations).

User Manual

The Contractor shall develop a User Manual containing the information and references necessary for the user to learn, navigate, and use the system.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final User Manual according to the Deliverables Schedule.

Installation

The Contractor shall assist in the installation of RDIS IT components in the CMS production environment and confirm the system operates as required.  The Contractor shall work with the OIS Support Contractors responsible for the , infrastructure, network, and database administration as required to install the system in the CMS production environment.  The Contractor shall use the CMS standard configuration tools and follow all CMS policies and procedures for the installation of the system.

RDIS Database Development Services

The database developer (local DBA) shall develop, support, and maintain the databases required to meet the research, demonstration, and evaluation system requirements within the CMS IT environment, as well as support future program initiatives.  



The database developer will ensure that the  is informed of new developments within the application.  The database developer shall be well versed in database administration, particularly, for the database platform chosen.  



Database Developer roles include:



Providing assistance in the development of the conceptual & logical database design;

Participating in database migration reviews;

Defining & creating the database objects; for Oracle, this is limited to users objects (i.e., tables, views, indexes, etc.);

Assisting application developers in functional prototyping;

Carrying out application performance tuning and testing;

Developing all necessary/required database utilities;

Recommending/developing backup/recovery procedures for application tables/indexes;

Supporting application programmers in the testing of database applications;

Providing technical assistance to other team members;

Providing input to the CMS/Project capacity planning function; and

Provide ongoing database support/review in the CMS production environment.

General Database Support 

The Database Developers (development and test) shall perform the following general support tasks:



Implement database standards.

Follow the change management process for database modifications.

Review queries and provide tuning recommendations.

Participate in the capacity planning process.

Attend Change Control Meetings.

Attend Application Meetings (new development/O&M).

Coordinating the creation of Enterprise User Administration (EUA) Job codes for Integrated Data Repository (IDR) access. 

Database Development

The Database Developers (development and test) shall perform the following development tasks:



Assist in capturing requirements for development of new VIEWs or VDMs (Virtual Data Marts).

Develop Virtual Data Marts/Views in coordination with Business Intelligence (BI) Architect and Data Architect.

Assist application developers in functional prototyping.

Provide assistance in the development of the logical/physical design.

Participate in data model reviews.

Establish Application Specific Database Roles.

Establish Application Specific Subject/Function Roles.

Set up scripts for implementation of Target databases structure changes.

Set up scripts for implementation of VDM (Virtual Data Marts) and View Changes.

Assign users to appropriate Roles.

Database Test

The Database Developers (development and test) shall perform the following testing tasks:



Perform database migrations of Target changes.

Perform database migrations of VDMs and/or View Changes.

Set up scripts for implementation of staging database structure changes.

Load test data.

Implement Application Specific Database Roles.

Implement Application Specific Subject/Function Roles.

Assign users to appropriate Roles.

Database Integration 

The Database Developers (development and test) shall perform the following integration tasks:



Establish database environments for integration testing.

Provide scripts for database migrations of target changes.

Provide scripts for database migrations of staging changes.

Provide scripts for establishing Database Roles.

Provide scripts for establishing Subject/Function Roles.

Database Production 

The Database Developers (development and test) shall perform the following production tasks:



Assist Production DBAs with troubleshooting production issues.

Assist users in query development or addressing query performance issues.



NOTE:	Local DBAs require READ access to production environments until an environment can be built out that is sized sufficiently to allow performance tuning of queries.

Database Logical Data Model

The Contractor shall provide the fully attributed key-based Logical Data Model (LDM) in CA Erwin Data Modeler format. Other tools may be used to develop the LDM, but the model shall be converted to ERwin before delivery to CMS. The model shall adhere to the CMS Data Administration standards.  See Section 6 Government Furnished Information for the URL to the CMS Data Administration Standards.  The LDM shall contain entity-relationship diagrams, entity and attribute definitions, and lists of values.  The Contractor shall, to the extent possible, make use of existing data models such as the PAC-PAI/CARE, EHRDS, IDR, and other CMS relevant data models.  CMS will provide these data models, if available, as Government Furnished Information (GFI).  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final LDM according to the Deliverables Schedule.

Database Design Document

The Contractor shall deliver the Database Design Document (DDD) for the RDIS.  The Contractor shall, to the extent possible, make use of existing database designs such as the PAC-PAI, EHRDS, IDR, and other CMS database designs. CMS will provide these database designs, if available, as GFI.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final DDD according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The Contractor shall provide development support for Business Intelligence (BI) and Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) projects and tools that support various ORDI applications, data warehouses, decision support and analytical systems, management information systems, dashboards, data dissemination systems, and reporting and data extracting requirements for ORDI Programs and projects. The target environment includes commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products, and CMS systems requiring BI or ETL support. The database environment consists of databases that range in size from several gigabytes (GB) to dozens of terabytes.



The Contractor shall provide BI/ETL services that include, but are not limited to:



Developing views, reports and data extracts as directed by CMS to include:

Eliciting Requirements

Analysis

Design

Development

Maintenance

Testing

Implementation

Collaborating with ORDI business components in support of the CMS ORDI Mission.

Developing and maintaining project work plans for fulfilling these requirements. 

Monitoring of BI and ETL solutions/applications under the contractor responsibility.

The contractor shall provide on an as-needed basis, a detailed plan for software migrations and upgrades to ensure an efficient and well-managed process.  This plan should entail a layout to include dates and processes for all version changes and upgrades. All plans shall provide for continuous BI/ETL support.

Participate in requirements and prototyping sessions with business users.

Support for, and automation of, routine ETL procedures.

ORDI End User support.

Perform tool upgrade testing as needed.

Design, Development, Implementation and Maintenance of ETL code, including all documentation such as: Interface Control Documents (ICD) and Functional Specification documents which include source to target mapping.

Providing BI/ETL code that is optimized to work efficiently in the CMS environment.

Data Mapping (i.e. source to target, target to multiple sources, etc.).

View/Report development and maintenance.

Metadata development.

Project setup and architect support.

Conduct or participate in end-user training.

Data Modeling.

Documentation as required by CMS.

Support for, and automation of, routine BI procedures. 

RDIS IT Security Services

Information Security Risk Assessment



The Contractor shall determine the level of risks for the various components of the RDIS using the CMS Information Security Risk Assessment Methodology and shall deliver the CMS Information Security Risk Assessment (ISRA). 



The Contractor shall engage in the following activities, which will form the basis for completing the ISRA:



Security assurance:	Identify as security-critical those software components whose failure could lead to a breach of system security.  If there is such software, the Contractor shall develop a security assurance strategy to assure that the requirements, design, implementation, and operating procedures for the identified software minimize or eliminate the potential for breaches of system security.  The Contractor shall record the strategy in the software development plan, implement the strategy, and produce evidence, as part of required software products, that the security assurance strategy has been carried out.



Privacy assurance:	Identify as privacy-critical software components whose failure could lead to a breach of system privacy. If there is such software, the Contractor shall develop a privacy assurance strategy to assure that the requirements, design, implementation, and operating procedures for the identified software minimize or eliminate the potential for breaches of system privacy.  The Contractor shall record the strategy in the software development plan, implement the strategy, and produce evidence, as part of required software products, that the privacy assurance strategy has been carried out.



The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final ISRA according to the Deliverables Schedule.

System Security Plan

The Contractor shall complete and deliver a Major Application System Security Plan (MA SSP) for the RDIS using the CMS SSP Methodology.  The Contractor shall deliver a draft and a final MA SSP according to the Deliverables Schedule.  

Security Assessment/System Test & Evaluation (ST&E)

The Contractor shall provide Security Assessment/Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) services for the RDIS.  



Security Assessment Services include comprehensive security testing to ensure that the system meets all legislative, regulatory, DHHS, and CMS security and privacy requirements prior to implementation.



The Security Assessment Contractor shall ensure that its products and artifacts are in the same format or a format compatible with CMS processes and tools. The Security Assessment Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that the artifacts and products can be incorporated automatically and integrated into CMS processes and tools.

The Security Assessment Contractor shall adhere to guidance, standards, and templates The Security Assessment Contractor shall reference the CMS Framework for the latest standards, guidance, and templates provided by CMS.

The Security Assessment Contractor shall adhere to guidance, standards, and templates. The Security Evaluation Contractor shall reference the CMS Framework for the latest standards, guidance, and templates provided by CMS.

The Security Assessment Contractor shall produce the Security Assessment deliverables (artifacts), unless otherwise directed in the Task Order SOW. The list of deliverables may change due to one or more of the following:

CMS modifies the list of artifacts for the CMS Framework

Some artifacts may be deemed unnecessary or redundant with other controls in the context of a specific task order

Additional artifacts may be deemed necessary in the context of a specific task order



Guidelines, Standards, and Templates:

 

CMS Lifecycle Framework	

Federal Enterprise Architecture Consolidated Reference Model Version 2.0, June 2006, 

CMS Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Procedure  

CMS Business Partner System Security Manual  

NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-55, Security Metrics Guide for Information Technology Systems

NIST SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems

NIST SP 800-51, Use of the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) Vulnerability Naming Scheme

NIST SP 800-37, Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems

NIST SP 800-34, Contingency Planning Guide for Information Technology Systems

NIST SP 800-26, Security Self-Assessment Guide for Information Technology Systems

NIST SP 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information Technology Systems

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996

FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems

FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems

FIPS 191, Guideline for the Analysis of Local Area Network Security

IEEE Std 829-1998, IEEE Standard for Software Test Documentation



The Contractors shall not perform Performance and Stress Testing, Systems Testing, Acceptance Testing, Security Assessments, or Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) on software and/or systems for which they have provided design and development services.  

Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)

All current CMS holdings of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) shall be reviewed annually to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that such holdings are accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. An annual PIA shall be conducted for each CMS System Of Record (SOR) and data extract system to ensure there is no collection, storage, access, use or dissemination of PII that is not both needed and permitted. All PII holdings shall be reduced to the minimum necessary for the proper performance of the documented CMS function. 



The IT Technical Management Contractor shall complete and deliver an initial PIA for the Demonstration Application.  The IT Technical Management Contractor shall also complete and deliver annual PIAs for the Demonstration Application.

System Re-Certification and Re-Accreditation

The Contractor shall support the CMS Business Owner with the System Re-Certification and the System Re-Accreditation for the RDIS.

RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

Adaptive & Corrective Maintenance

The contractor shall provide adaptive and corrective maintenance support for modifications to system components (i.e. software, database, etc) to correct faults, to improve performance, or to adapt the system components to a changed environment or changed requirements. This includes the correction of errors, the enhancement, deletion and addition of capabilities, the adaptation to changes in data requirements, data center infrastructure, operational environments, and the improvement of performance, usability, or any other quality attribute

Operations & Maintenance (O&M) Manual

The Contractor shall complete and deliver an Operations & Maintenance (O&M) Manual. The O&M Manual clearly describes the automated system or application that will be operating in the production environment and provides the operations and support staff with the information necessary to effectively handle routine production processing, ongoing maintenance, and identified problems/issues.



The O&M Manual describes the operational system and its stakeholders, as well as the roles and responsibilities for ongoing operations and maintenance of the system. It describes the sources of software components and other assets, how the architecture was implemented, the use of the architecture and assets, and how it is to be maintained. The O&M Manual provides documented procedures for performing tasks associated with equipment administration, network administration, application administration, and system administration, as well as data and database administration.

Problem Reports

The Contractor shall complete and deliver Problem Reports as required by CMS. 

Changes Requests

The Contractor shall address Change Requests approved by the CMS change management process.  Change Request may include but are not limited to the following:



Modifications to enable the system to stay compatible with the CMS operating environment and other CMS systems.

Changes to system functionality. 

Performance tuning and optimizing the system.

Diagnosing and correcting problems.  



The Contractor shall complete and deliver all Change Request Documentation required by the CMS change management process.  

Release Plan

The Contractor shall prepare a Release Plan to document the functionality (i.e., system requirements), the software components and the rationale for each release.  The Release Plan shall include a schedule indicating the SDLC milestones for all releases. 

RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall develop and submit a transition plan to CMS for how to transition a body of work to the next phase of the project or new responsible entity. The plan shall provide a brief overview of the transition goals and strategies, any assumptions that the plan is based on, and any risks that have been identified that could severely limit the ability to complete the transition on schedule.  Upon approval of the plan, the contractor shall be responsible for providing transition services that include, but are not limited to:



Ensuring that all identified system defects have been corrected.

Ensuring that all documentation is up-to-date.

Participating in all activities that will be performed to transition the deliverable software to the support entity.  These activities may include planning/coordination meetings; preparation of items to be delivered to the support agency; packaging, shipment, installation, and checkout of the software support environment; packaging, shipment, installation, and checkout of the operational software; and training of support personnel.

Identifying the roles and responsibilities for each transition activity.

Identifying the resources needed to carry out the transition activities and the source from which each of the resources will be provided from.

Preparing schedules and milestones for conducting the transition activities.  These schedules and milestones shall be compatible with the contract master schedule.

Creating or updating procedures for installation and checkout of deliverable items in the support environments.

RDIS FUTURE PROJECT SCENARIOS

The projects outlined in this section are representative of the potential future project portfolio that may require the supporting services detailed in this IDIQ.  These projects are currently pending official sanctioning and availability of funds. 

Electronic Health Record Demonstration System (EHRDS) Services

On April 7, 2009 CMS announced that, as a result of the incentive provisions for physicians to encourage the adoption of health information technology in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act 0f 2009 (ARRA), CMS will change its plans for implementing the EHR Demonstration. Specifically, CMS will continue implementation of Phase I of the EHR Demonstration program on schedule and shall discontinue implementation of Phase II. CMS has continued working with Phase I community partners and practices, including conducting local kick off meetings for more than 400 selected practices in May, 2009. The demonstration began as planned on June 1, 2009 and shall continue through May 21, 2014. Although CMS has decided to discontinue Phase II of the EHR demonstration, which originally was planned to begin operations in mid-2010, CMS still requires a fully functioning IT system to meet the requirements for Phase I to administer this Demonstration and provide a means for collecting data from the Phase I practices. 



The contractor will perform operations and maintenance (O&M) services on the EHRDS IT components that are currently integrated into the RDIS architectural framework. This will encompass a variety of IT O&M and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the EHR demonstration. 

EHRDS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.

EHRDS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.

EHRDS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.



EHRDS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.

EHRDS IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.

EHRDS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the EHRDS components of the RDIS.

Public Use File (PUF) Data & Statistics Dissemination System Services (PDSDS) 

As a by-product of administering the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs, CMS maintains one of the most comprehensive administrative data resources anywhere.  For example, we have claims data for all fee-for-service Medicare beneficiaries (about 80% of the Medicare population) for different settings and types of care, including: inpatient and outpatient hospital, skilled nursing facilities, home health, hospice, physicians/suppliers, durable medical equipment, and prescription drugs.  To date, access to these person-level data files has been very restricted.  CMS is initiating a project to improve access to our data by creating de-identified public use files (PUFs) from our claims data.  The products will be a set of PUFs containing claims data for a random percent sample of the Medicare and/or Medicaid population.  We also plan to create person-level enrollment files for the sample to support the calculation of population-based rates and proportions.  The files will be carefully de-identified to ensure that beneficiary confidentiality is strictly protected (note: these will be stand-alone files without a linking identifier to ensure that a beneficiary cannot be identified through their pattern of utilization across settings).  We are planning to make the PUFs available through Data.gov.  These files will allow users in the public to study the utilization and costs of health care services provided through the Medicare program in ways never possible before.  The effort is intended to enhance program transparency and can provide an important spark for new research and innovation that may improve the quality and cost of care provided through our programs. The contractor shall need to work with CMS or its designee to create and manage dissemination of CMS Basic Stand Alone De-Identified Claims Public Use Data Set(s) and user documentation.  

PDSDS IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.

PDSDS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the PDSDS components of the RDIS.





North Dakota Statewide Quality Improvement Network (SQIN) Demonstration System (SQINDS) Services

Capitalizing on the strengths of states with high quality, efficient and integrated providers, a Statewide Quality Improvement Network (SQIN) would be established.  The SQIN would be a statewide network of hospitals and physicians that would participate with Medicare in a pay for performance demonstration with dedicated incentive pools distributed based on achievable benchmarks for performance.  Under the demonstration, quality and efficiency would be measured collectively for all providers in the SQIN.  Performance payments would be paid to the SQIN annually based on the aggregated results across different provider types and based on improvement or the delivery of high quality care.  The SQIN would have administrative responsibilities including recruiting providers, disbursing incentives payments, and providing technical assistance to support quality reporting and provider feedback.  The concept is consistent with the overall goals of testing new ways to reward providers for paying for high quality and efficient care.



The contractor will develop and construct SQINDS IT components that shall be integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the RDIS/EHRDS. This will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the SQIN demonstration. 

SQINDS IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.

SQINDS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the SQINDS components of the RDIS.



Multi Payer Advanced Primary Care Practice (MAPCP) Demonstration System (MAPCPDS) Services

Under this demonstration, CMS will participate in innovative multi-payer reform initiatives that are being conducted by states to make advanced primary care practices more broadly available. The demonstration will evaluate whether advanced primary care practices will (1) reduce unjustified variation in utilization and expenditures; (2) improve the safety, effectiveness, timeliness, and efficiency of health care; (3) increase the ability of beneficiaries to participate in decisions concerning their care; (4) increase the availability and delivery of care that is consistent with evidence-based guidelines in historically underserved areas; and (5) reduce overall utilization and expenditures under the Medicare program. The demonstration will be open to States that have undertaken multi-payer reform initiatives, and will be conducted under the authority of section 402 of the Social Security Amendments of 1967.



The contractor will develop and construct MAPCPDS IT components that shall be integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the RDIS/EHRDS. This will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the MAPCP demonstration. 

MAPCP IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.

MAPCP Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the MAPCP components of the RDIS.



Federally Qualified  (FQHC) Medical Home Demonstration System (FQHCDS) Services

Many Medicare beneficiaries receive their primary care from Federally Qualified Health Clinics (FQHC). This demonstration will extend the “medical home” concept that is being tested in private medical practices to the FQHCs.  Under this demonstration, FQHCs that meet specified requirements to qualify as a “medical home” can receive an additional monthly payment for Medicare beneficiaries that recognize the FQHC as their medical home.  Up to 500 FQHCs may participate in this demonstration and will enhance the care for about 150,000 beneficiaries.



The contractor will develop and construct FQHCDS IT components that shall be integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the RDIS/EHRDS. This will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the FQHC demonstration. 

FQHCDS IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.

FQHCDS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the FQHCDS components of the RDIS.



Digital Journal IT Services

The Digital Journal will be a peer-reviewed, on-line journal reporting data and research that helps inform current and future directions of the Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance programs.  The journal seeks to examine and evaluate effective up-to-date health care coverage, quality and access to care for beneficiaries, and efficient payment for health services.  



The contractor will develop and construct the Digital Journal IT components that shall be integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the RDIS/EHRDS. This will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the Digital Journal.

Digital Journal IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.

Digital Journal Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the Digital Journal components of the RDIS.



Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER) Services

The Comparative Effectiveness Research Coordination and Integration Team (CER-CIT) oversees the distribution of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds allocated to the Department of Health and Human Services to support comparative effectiveness research (CER). 



CER is designed to compare different interventions to prevent, diagnose, treat, and monitor health conditions.  These interventions may include medications, procedures, medical and assistive devices and technologies, behavioral change strategies, delivery system interventions, and the like.  The idea is to conduct empirical research to build an evidence base on what works in health care.  This information can be used to develop practice guidelines and other methods to promote informed health care decision-making.  Armed with this information, health care providers and beneficiaries can select treatments that are most likely to lead to improved health and functioning.  As providers and patients are able to focus on treatments that are more effective, we also expect to see program savings over time. 



To date, researchers need to pay CMS a recovery-of-cost fee to generate files from the data repository.  For many researchers this fee represents a significant barrier to being able to obtain the data needed to conduct CER.  The current project is intended to improve access to CMS administrative data by creating files that would be available to all, free of charge, on our website.  



The contractor will develop and construct CER IT components that shall be integrated into the architectural framework that currently supports the RDIS/EHRDS. This will encompass a variety of IT developmental and project management activities associated with web site development, database development, business intelligence development, data dissemination, and analytics to support the FQHC demonstration. 

CER IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.

CER Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the CER components of the RDIS.



Decision Support, Performance Metrics, and Program Statistics (DSPMPS) Services

In addition to overseeing and maintaining the CCW and RDDC, ORDI has also been tasked with assisting in the integration of CMS statistical products into www.Data.gov.  This is a website developed by the Federal CIO Council as an interagency federal initiative to increase public access to high value, machine readable datasets generated by the executive branch of the federal government.  We will continue to contribute data on a rolling basis, as they are available. CMS is also planning to considerably expand our efforts around disseminating data and statistics to the public.  This includes disseminating aggregate Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP program information. While these functions have been performed to some degree in the past, our efforts would be substantially expanded to support the President’s emphasis on health care reform and government transparency.  We plan to produce a series of information products that will allow easy monitoring of program enrollment, utilization, payments, and performance.  These products could be made available to the public either through the government-wide  website or CMS websites.  The overall intent is to design, develop, produce, and disseminate information products that will allow easy monitoring of program enrollment, utilization, payments, and performance of the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs; design, develop, produce, and disseminate a variety of statistical and analytical data repositories containing Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP program information for use by the general public and research communities; design, develop, produce, and disseminate statistical tables, chart books and data tables of Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP program information; and translate raw statistical data into files useful to technical researchers, website visitors, and the general public in understanding CMS programs, spending, and policies. 



Additionally, CMS intends to expand our capabilities for gauging the effectiveness of our programs, innovative undertakings, and research projects by establishing, monitoring, and publishing performance measures and metrics that provide a way to measure whether or not we are achieving our strategic imperatives. Through clear and repeatable processes that employ systematic approaches, we intend to accurately and continuously measure and score key indicators to determine whether our programs and projects are truly delivering value and their intended outcomes.

DSPMPS IT Project & System Management Services

The contractor shall provide IT Project & System Management Services as detailed in Section 4.1 “RDIS IT Project & System Management Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS IT Security Services

The contractor shall provide IT security services as detailed in Section 4.6 “RDIS IT Security Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

The contractor shall provide IT operations and maintenance services as detailed in Section 4.7 “RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.

DSPMPS Transition Planning & Execution Services

The contractor shall provide Transition Planning & Execution services as detailed in Section 4.8 “RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services” for the DSPMPS components of the RDIS.



Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMI) Web Intake System (CMIWIS)

Under the new health reform law, CMI has been established to implement innovative payment system pilots and expand those that are shown to reduce Medicare expenditures and improve quality.  CMS recognizes the importance of adding CMI content to their public website.  The project will be broken into two phases as described below.

Phase 1 

During the first phase of implementation, a CMI link will be added to the CMS internet homepage.  The landing page for this link will be the CMI home page (a separate page, still on the CMS website).  The CMI home page for Phase 1 will include general CMI information and limited features.  The primary purpose of the CMI website in this phase will be to: 

disseminate general information on the background, current state, and future activities of the CMI to interested parties, 

redirect ad-hoc requests for CMI information from CMS staff to the website,

and familiarize interested parties with coming to the website to get information and find out what is happening. 

Initial information may include a brief description of the statutory background supporting CMI, a short overview of CMI and the concept of innovation, a list of key dates, and an outreach section.  External parties may find the outreach section the most useful section initially. This section will also provide a listserv sign-up, information on any public meetings, and Open Door Forum information.  



Phase 2 

The second phase of implementation for the CMI website will focus on creating a one-stop source/resource for all of the stakeholders involved with CMI.  It will add interactivity, contain more topics of information, and may have additional features (e.g., intake tool).  The following types of information will be included in Phase 2: 

Description of key concepts and processes (e.g., innovation, intake, demonstrations, evaluation, translation);

Information on research partners and/or labs;

Models and areas being tested;

Program statistics (e.g., # of programs/studies being tested, beneficiary enrollment, spending, etc.);

Links to partners, other affiliated agencies, intake tool, etc.



In addition, CMS will develop and implement an organized “front-end” process (and supporting technologies/systems) to efficiently collect, organize, and translate ideas that have been solicited and/or submitted ad-hoc to the CMI.  This “intake process” will allow CMI to dictate the content and format of information received from innovators and channel these data into a standard format that can be used effectively by CMI staff, labs, stakeholders etc.

CMIWIS IT Requirements Development Services

The contractor shall provide IT Requirements Development Services as detailed in Section 4.2 “RDIS IT Requirements Development Services” for the CMIWIS components of the RDIS.

CMIWIS IT Development Services

The contractor shall provide services as detailed in Section 4.3 “RDIS IT Development Services” for the CMIWIS components of the RDIS.

CMIWIS Database Development Services

The contractor shall provide database development services as detailed in Section 4.4 “RDIS Database Development Services” for the CMIWIS components of the RDIS.

CMIWIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

The contractor shall provide Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services as detailed in Section 4.5 “RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services” for the CMIWIS components of the RDIS.



GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION (GFI), EQUIPMENT, AND FACILITIES

CMS will not provide equipment or office facilities at the CMS site for contractor personnel.

Attachments

Research, Demonstration, and Information System (RDIS) Acronyms

EHR Demonstration “As Is” Business Process Description

Web site References

Note:	CMS shall provide the most recent editions of the existing standards upon award of the contract(s).



CMS Integrated IT Investment & System Life Cycle Framework



http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SystemLifecycleFramework/



CMS  Architecture 



http://www.cms.hhs.gov/EnterpriseArchitecture/



CMS Technical Reference Architecture (TRA)



This document is available upon request.



CMS Information Security 





CMS Information Technology Standards     





CMS Requirements Writer’s Guide





CMS DBA Standards





CMS JavaEE Application Development Guidelines Supplement, ver 1.01; January 2010 



This document is available upon request.



CMS Policy for Configuration Management





FIPS Data Encryption Standards





Reference System Documentation

CMS shall provide existing documentation and source code for similar projects deployed within the CMS data center (including processes, utilities, data models, source and object code, etc.) for the Contractor to use in any capacity related to the CMS mission.

QUALITY ASSURANCE

The Contractor shall ensure the timeliness and quality of the deliverables for the duration of this task.  The COTR will review deliverables, provide comments for revisions, frequently monitoring Contractor activities, and conduct routine status meetings.  In addition, review of progress reporting will also help support the monitoring of the Contractor’s work.

Quality Control Requirements

The Contractor shall participate in weekly conferences with the CMS COTR and other CMS staff as appropriate.  These calls will be used to discuss and manage administrative and project issues.

The Contractor shall submit Monthly Progress Reports, Letter Reports, Summary Reports, and Final Report in accordance with Section ”4” of this SOW. 

If the Contractor chooses to work with a Subcontractor(s), the Contractor shall work collaboratively and operate under a sub-contractual agreement, which includes a Statement of Work and deliverables, and a conflict resolution mechanism.

Any applications developed or used in meeting the requirements of the Statement of Work shall go through a rigorous set of system, unit, and acceptance tests to assure data and system integrity.  Each stage of testing shall be fully documented.  For each application used or developed (i.e., data collection, data manipulation, data extraction, data transfer, or data access), the Contractor shall provide CMS complete system documentation of the system design, test plans, test results, remedies, and will incorporate CMS proposed changes prior to proceeding.

The Contractor shall continuously monitor the quality of work products and deliverables for documentation of and adherence to established procedures.  Quality assurance reports will be submitted to the COTR.

Quality Assurance Requirements



The Contractor shall provide DRAFT documents to CMS for review in accordance with Section “4”of this SOW.  CMS shall be allowed no less than 30 days to review and submit comments to the Contractor for inclusion in the FINAL document.  The Contractor shall incorporate all relevant CMS comments and instructions into FINAL documents generated under this contract.  The COTR, and other CMS staff, if appropriate, will review DRAFT documents described in this SOW and provide comment(s) to the Contractor within 15 days of receipt. 

The Contractor shall document all CMS approved procedures, methodologies, and analyses associated with this contract.  The Contractor shall develop a Quality Assurance (QA) plan to guide the process.  This QA plan shall reflect the general and specific requirements found in Sections II.B, Tasks; II.C, Report Requirements; and, III, Quality Assurance of this SOW.  This QA plan shall be included with the work plan found in Section II.B, Task 1.1.

The Contractor shall maintain data quality control procedures to ensure the security and integrity of any CMS data provided to the Contractor and stored on the Contractor’s system.  The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Privacy and Freedom of Information legal requirements. 

In addition to meeting and/or conference call summaries, “meeting support” includes the determination of items for discussion, provision of agendas and background materials, and documentation of key points and issues.  CMS has the authority to approve all such materials prior to distribution.

CMS expects products to be well written and need minimal revisions. Failure to meet these expectations may result in the return of deliverables for further refinement.

CONTRACT-RELATED ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

CMS Personnel

CMS personnel for this contract are:



Contracting Officer

William Tate

	Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

Acquisition and Grants Group

Division of Information Technology Contracts



(410) 786-1535



Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR - Primary) 

James Beyer

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services





(410) 786-6693





Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR - Secondary) 

Ha Abrams

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services





(410) 786-1354





Key Contractor Personnel

Key Contractor personnel required for this contract are as follows:



Solution Architect/Lead Developer

Senior JEE Developer

Senior BI Developer

Database Architect/Database Lead

Senior Web Architect



The Contractor shall describe the skills and roles of key personnel in the Project Management Plan.  Proposed key personnel should have the following experience:



Designing, developing, and implementing software applications in CMS’s 3-zone environment;

Designing, developing, and implementing Internet-based systems in CMS’s 3-zone environment;

Designing, developing, and implementing Oracle database systems within CMS’s 3-zone environment;

Designing, developing, and implementing BI applications in CMS’s 3-zone environment;

Designing, developing, and implementing software applications that interface with enterprise services for existing databases residing within CMS’s 3-zone environment; and

Designing, developing, and implementing data dissemination applications in CMS’s 3-zone environment.



The Contractor shall list non-key personnel and describe their skills and roles in the Project Management Plan.  If the contractor is either bidding or anticipates bidding on multiple task orders across multiple projects, for example “Project and System Management Services” and “IT Security Services” for the EHRDS, PDSDS, CER, and Digital Journal projects, the contractor must include a detailed discussion on how the contractor shall account for and effectively deploy key and non key personnel to ensure appropriate coverage across the entire project mix spectrum. 

DELIVERABLES

Format

The Contractor shall produce all deliverables in the current version of Microsoft Office software used by CMS (e.g. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Project) unless otherwise approved by the GTL.  Word documents are to be prepared in Times New Roman, 12 point font.  The Contractor shall produce diagrams in Visio unless otherwise approved by the GTL.  The deliverables shall not be delivered as PDF files unless approved by the GTL.  All deliverables should be in compliance with 508 policy standards.

Recipients

All deliverables shall be submitted to the , the GTL, and the CO as listed in section 8.1 above.  The Contractor shall deliver the original plus one (1) hard copy to the GTL and an electronic copy via email to the GTL, the , and the GTL unless otherwise specified in the Deliverables Schedule.

Review Cycle 

CMS will review each draft deliverable and return comments to the Contractor within ten (10) business days unless otherwise specified in this SOW.  The Contractor shall address all CMS comments in a separate document indicating how comments were addressed and where in the revised document any resulting revisions were made.  The Contractor shall revise the draft deliverable as required, and return it to CMS within five (5) business days of receipt of CMS comments on the draft.  CMS will review the revised deliverable to confirm the Contractor has addressed all comments and has made the necessary revisions before accepting the deliverable as final. 

Deliverables Schedule

The Contractor shall provide the necessary personnel, materials, equipment, support, and supplies to accomplish the tasks shown below in the specified timeframe.  The Contractor shall provide a preliminary project plan.  If the Contractor believes that this time frame is not appropriate, then an alternative should be proposed along with a justification. 



All work done under this contract shall be performed under the general guidance of the CMS/ORDI project officer (PO) and is subject to the ’s approval.  This schedule is subject to modification by CMS.



All deliverables shall be submitted to the GTL, the , and the CO according to the following schedule or as mutually agreed upon.



DATA RIGHTS

CMS shall have unlimited rights to those products and/or services that are in this scope of work.  If additional products and/or services are added to the contract at a later date (by mutual agreement between CMS and the Contractor), unlimited rights to those products and/or services will convey to CMS.  Unlimited rights to the product (including processes, utilities, source and object code, etc.) for CMS to use in any capacity related to CMS’ mission.



The Contractor shall not install into the system, or make the system dependent upon, any proprietary software/processes/products in the course of fulfilling the requirements/deliverables of the statement of work unless said rights are conveyed to CMS without cost or hindrance.

CONTRACT TERM



At the completion of the one year base contract period, CMS reserves the right to award an additional one year option period.  The one year optional period will have the same scope of work and tasks that are required in the base contract period.



After the first option period has expired, CMS has the right award a second, third and ultimately a fourth one year option period.  Therefore, the maximum period of performance for this contract is five years: a one year base period with four separate one year optional periods. 




Attachment A: Research, Demonstration, and Information System (RDIS) Acronyms



<<<1 Separate File Attached>>>



Attachment B: EHR Demonstration “As Is” Business Process Description



<<<1 Separate File Attached>>>





Section

Deliverable

Schedule

1

Architecture Review  (AR)

Within 3 months after the Project Management Plan is completed

2.1.10

Project Status Reviews

On the 15th of every month

2.1.7

Introduction of Key Personnel

Within 3 weeks after the project start date

2.1.7

Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

Within 3 weeks after the contract start date

2.1.7

Technical Approach Overview

2 business days prior to contract Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

2.1.8

Monthly Status Report

On the 15th of every month

2.1.9

Earned Value Management Submissions

Bi-Weekly after the completion of the Project Management Plan 

4.1

Code Review

1 month prior to the Application Code Delivery

4.1

Design Elements

Within 3 weeks after the PDR is completed

4.1

High-level System Concept for Technical Review Board (TRB)

1 week after the Requirements Document is completed

4.1

Project Charter

1 week before the Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.1

Project Management Plan 

Within 1 month of the Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.1.1

Communications Plan

Within 1 month of the Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.1.2

Integrated Project Schedule Submissions

Within 1 month after the Project Schedule is completed

4.1.2

Project Schedule

Within one week after the Project Management Plan is completed

4.1.3

Risk Management Submissions

2 Weeks after the Project Management Plan is completed; bi-weekly updates thereafter

4.1.4

Project Status & Technical meetings

Weekly after the 1st Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.1.5

Meeting Agendas and Minutes

Weekly within 10 days after the project start date

4.2.1

Business Process Models (BPMs)

Within 2 weeks after the project Requirements Document is completed

4.2.2

Concept of Operations

Within 3 weeks after the project Requirements Document is completed

4.2.3

Gather and Document Business, Functional, and Nonfunctional Requirements

Within 3 months after the Project Management Plan is completed

4.2.4

Requirements Document  (RD)

Within 3 months after the Project Management Plan is completed

4.2.5

Requirements Review

Within 3 months after the contract start date

4.2.6

Requirements in DOORS

Within 2 weeks of the signed Requirements Document

4.3.2.1

Preliminary Design Review

Within 3 months after contract start

4.3.2.2

Detailed Design Review (DDR)

Within 3 weeks after the PDR is completed

4.3.2.2

Other Design Reviews

Within 3 weeks after the PDR is completed pending determination of need 

4.3.2.3

Implementation Readiness Review

Within 1 month after the Implementation Plan is completed

4.3.2.4

Operational Readiness Review

1 Month before the System Installation

4.3.3

System Certification & Accreditation

60 days before the System installation

4.3.4

Closeout Certifications

Within 2 weeks after the project ends

4.3.5

Application Development

Within 2 Months after Requirements Document is completed

4.3.5.1

Application Code Delivery

Within 3 months after Requirements Document is completed

4.3.5.2

Application help system code

Within 2 Months after Requirements Document is completed

4.3.5.3

Version Description document

Within 3 Months after Requirements Document is completed

4.3.5.4

Configuration Management (CM) 

Within 2 Months after Requirements Document is completed

4.3.5.5

High-Level Technical Design

Within 1 month after the Project management Plan is completed

4.3.5.5

System Design Document (SDD)

1 Month after the Detailed Design Review (DDR) is completed

4.3.5.6

Interface Control Document  (ICD)

1 Month after the Detailed Design Review (DDR) is completed

4.3.5.7

Identity Management Workflow Document

Within 3 weeks after the PDR is completed

4.3.6.1

Section 508 Product Assessment Package

Within one week after the Usability Testing Report is completed

4.3.6.2

Usability Report

Within 1 month after the Requirements Document is completed

4.3.6.3

Unit Test Case Specification

Within 1 month prior to the Code Delivery

4.3.6.3

Unit Test Plan

Within 1 month prior to the Code Delivery

4.3.6.3

Unit Test Summary Report

Within 2 weeks  after Unit Test Plan is completed

4.3.6.4

Integration & Load Test Plan

Within 1 month prior to the Code Delivery

4.3.6.4

Integration & Load Test Summary Report

Within  2 weeks  after the Integration & Load Test Plan is completed

4.3.7

Implementation Plan

Within 1 Month after the Detailed Design Review (DDR) is completed

4.3.7

Operational Readiness Validation

1 Month before System Installation

4.3.8

User Manual

1 Month before System Installation

4.3.9

System Installation

2 Weeks after the Operational Readiness Validation

4.4

Data Conversion Plan

Within 2 weeks after the Database Design Document is completed

4.4

Physical Data Model

Within 3 weeks after the Logical Data Model is completed

4.4.6

Logical Data Model

Within 5 weeks after the Requirements Analysis has been started

4.4.7

Database Design Document

Within 3 weeks after the Physical Database Model is completed

4.5

Business intelligence/reporting development services

Within 1 month after the Database Design Document

4.6.1

Information Security Risk Assessment

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.2

Major Application System Security Plan (MA SSP) 

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.2

System Security Plan

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.3

Security Assessment/System Test & Evaluation (ST&E)

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.3

ST&E Results Report

Within 2 weeks of the ST&E

4.6.3

ST&E Test Case Specifications, including Scripts and Cases (with Expected Results)

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.3

ST&E Test Strategy and Plan

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.3

ST&E Test Summary Report

3 months prior to production implementation

4.6.3

Validation Readiness Review (VRR)

1 Month after code delivery is completed

4.6.3

Production Readiness Review (PRR) 

2 weeks before the System installation

4.6.4

Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) - annual

Within 2 Months after Requirements Document  (RD) is completed / Annual

4.6.5

System Re-Certification and Re-Accreditation

Within one year after of the system installation / Annual

4.7.1

Corrective Action Plans (Monthly)

Monthly after the 1st Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.7.2

Operations & Maintenance (O&M) Manual

2 weeks before the System installation

4.7.3

Problem Reports

Weekly after the 1st Kick-Off Meeting Presentation

4.7.4

Change Request Documentation

Weekly after Requirements Document is completed

4.7.5

Plan of Action & Milestones

Within 2 weeks after the  ST&E Results Report is complete

4.7.5

Release Plan

Within 3 months after Requirements Document is completed

4..8

Training Artifacts

1 Month before System Installation

4..8

Training Plan

1 Month before System InstallationPART I - THE SCHEDULE



SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS



B.1	DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES  						

B.2	TYPE OF CONTRACT

B.3	ESTIMATED COST AND FIXED FEE

B.4	WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS					



SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT



C.1	STATEMENT OF WORK

C.2	INCORPORATION OF CONTRACTOR'S PROPOSAL  			

C.3	INCORPORATION OF REPRESENTATIONS AND 

CERTIFICATIONS								



SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING



D.1	PACKAGING AND MARKING							



SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



E.1	FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 	

E.2	INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE					

E.3	APPROVALS BY THE PROJECT OFFICER

E.4	FAR 52.246-5 INSPECTION OF SERVICES - COST-REIMBURSEMENT



SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



	F.1	FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

F.2	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

F.3	ITEMS TO BE FURNISHED AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE

F.4	FAR 52.242-15  STOP-WORK ORDER

		 

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA



G.1 	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA				

G.2	INVOICING  						

G.3	PAYMENT							

G.4	PROJECT OFFICER			

G.5	TECHNICAL DIRECTION							

G.6	CONTRACTING OFFICER RESPONSIBILITY				

G.7	PROJECT DIRECTOR/PROJECT MANAGER					

G.8	HHSAR 352.270-5 KEY PERSONNEL					

G.9	WORKING PAPERS								

G.10	DATA TO BE DELIVERED						

G.11  	INDIRECT COST - PROVISIONAL RATES  

G.12	SERVICE OF CONSULTANTS			

G.13	DISSEMINATION, PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF

	INFORMATION								

G.14	TRAVEL COSTS 

G.15	PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION

G.16   	AUDIT OF HOURS  					

G.17	CORRESPONDENCE PROCEDURES

G.18	FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY

G.19	SUBCONTRACT CONSENT

G.20	USE OF GOVERNMENT – DATA (REPORTS/FILES/COMPUTER TAPES OR DISKETTES)

	G.21   	ESRS REPORTING

G.22   	POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE

G.23	GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (GPO)

G.24	GOVERNEMT FURNISHED PROPERTY

G.25	QUALITY ASSURANCE

G.26	COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

G.27 	BILLING INSTRUCTINS



SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS



	H.1	HHSAR 352.270-7 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT 

H.2  	CONDITIONS FOR PERFORMANCE

H.3	HIPAA BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROVISION II

H.4	CMS IDENTITY MARK GUIDELINES

H.5	SECURITY CLAUSE

H.6	INDIRECT COST RATES

	H.7	RESTRICTIONS ON THE USES OF INFORMATION

	H.8	APPROVALOF CONTRACT ACQUIRED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT)

	H.9     	ORGANIZATION CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

	H.10	CONFLICT OF INTEREST

	H.11	ELECTRONIC INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY

	H.12 	CODE OF CONDUCT

	H.13 	CMS INFORMATION SECURITY 

	H.14	SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE FOR COMMUNICATIONS





SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES



I.1	FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

I.2	FAR 52.215-19 NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES

I.3	FAR 52.252-6 AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES 

	I.4	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE – UNIFORM CONTRACT

I.5	DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES  		

ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (HHSAR) INCORPORATED 

BY REFERENCE 352.252-20						

I.6	HHSAR 352.224-7 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION



SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



J.1	STATEMENT OF WORK

J.2	ACCOUNTING CERTIFICATION



SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS 



	K.1	FAR 52.204-8  ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS

K.2	HHSAR 352.204 CERTIFICATION OF FILING AND PAYMENT OF FEDERAL TAXES	





SECTION L – INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS



L.1	Special Instructions

L-2 	General Instructions

L.3	Section 508, Accessibility of Electronic & Information Technology (EIT) Compliance

L.4	Technical Proposal Instructions

L.5	Business Proposal Instructions

L.6	Treatment of Data in Proposals (FOIA)

L.7	Treatment of Proprietary Information in Proposals 

L.8	52.233-2 Service of Protest (Aug 1996)

L.9	52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)



SECTION M – EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



M.1 	General Evaluation Process and Source Selection Approach

M.2	Evaluation Methodology

M.3	Technical Evaluation Factors 

M.4	Other Factors




SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS



B.1	DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES  	



The contractor shall perform services for the effort entitled “Research, Data, and Information System (RDIS) Development” in accordance with Section C, DESCRIPTION / SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT.



B.2	TYPE OF CONTRACT 



This is a Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee contract.



B.3 	ESTIMATED COST AND FIXED 



The total estimate cost plus fixed fee is xxx, the reimbursable cost is xxx, the fixed fee is xxx.



B.4   WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS (APR 1984) HHSAR Clause 

352.232-9   (APR 1984)



Notwithstanding any other payment provisions of this contract, failure of the Contractor to submit required reports when due or failure to perform or deliver required work, supplies, or services, will result in the withholding of payments under this contract unless such failure arises out of causes beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as defined by the clause entitled "Excusable Delays" or "Default", as applicable. The Government shall promptly notify the Contractor of its intention to withhold payment of any invoice or voucher submitted.






SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT



See Section J, Statement of Work (SOW) 



C.2  INCORPORATION OF CONTRACTOR'S PROPOSAL  



The Contractor's technical proposal, entitled "xxx," dated xxx, is hereby incorporated by reference, and made a part of this contract.  The portions of the Contractor's proposal identified above are declared to be "Technical Data" and notwithstanding any restrictive markings placed on or in the proposal, the identified portion is subject to the unlimited rights provisions of the "Rights in Data-General" clause of Section I of this contract.  In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this contract and the Contractor's technical proposal, the inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:  (a) Part I, The Schedule, (b) Part II, FAR Clauses incorporated under Section I, (c) Contractor's technical proposal, and (d) Other provisions of the contract, whether incorporated by reference or otherwise.





C.3  INCORPORATION OF REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS



The Contractor’s Representations and Certifications have been completed in accordance with FAR 52.204-8.  A copy should be provided in the business proposal to the government.
SECTION D  PACKAGING AND MARKING



D.1         PACKAGING, AND MARKING



All deliverables required under this contract shall be packaged, marked and shipped in accordance with Government specifications.  The Contractor shall guarantee that all required materials shall be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition. 






SECTION E  INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



E.1     52.252-2  CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: www.arnet.gov/far/ 



E.2     INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



a.  All work under this contract is subject to inspection and final acceptance by the Contracting Officer or the fully authorized representative of the Government.



b.  The Government’s Project Officer is a duly authorized representative of the Government and is responsible for inspection and acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract.



c.   Inspection and acceptance of the Contractor’s performance shall be in accordance with the applicable FAR clauses in Section E.1 above.



E.3    APPROVALS BY THE PROJECT OFFICER



All items to be delivered to the Project Officer will be deemed to have been approved 30 calendar days after date of delivery, except as otherwise specified in this contract, if written approval or disapproval has not been given within such period.  The Project Officer’s approval or revision to the items submitted shall be within the general scope of work stated in this contract.	





E.4	52.246-5  INSPECTION OF SERVICES – COST - REIMBURSEMENT(APR 1984)

Incorporated by reference 






SECTION F  DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



F.1   52.252-2  CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:   





F.2   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance for completion of all work under this contract shall be five (5) months from the award date.





F.3   ITEMS TO BE FURNISHED AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE



a.  All deliverables required under this contract shall be packaged, marked and shipped in accordance with U.S. Government specifications.  The Contractor shall guarantee that all required materials shall be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition.~f



b. The Contractor shall submit all required deliverables and reports in accordance with the following schedule.  Reports submitted under the contract shall reference and cite the contract number and identify CMS as the sponsoring agency.



c. Satisfactory performance of the final contract shall be deemed to occur upon delivery and acceptance by the Contracting Officer, or the duly authorized representative, of the following items in accordance with the following schedule (reports submitted under the contract shall reference and cite the contract number and identify CMS as the sponsoring agency):



The contractor shall submit all required reports and deliverables in accordance with the following schedule.  Reports and/or deliverables submitted under this contract shall be in accordance with this Statement of Work.  





F.4   52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)

Incorporated by reference 




SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA 





G.1	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA  	



TBD

	

G.2	  INVOICING (COST REIMBURSEMENT)



a.  Submission of Invoices and Place of Payment



(1)  Once each month following the effective date of this contract, the Contractor may submit to the Government an invoice (or public voucher) for payment, in accordance with FAR Clause 52.216-7 "Allowable Cost & Payment."  Invoices shall be prepared in accordance with the "Billing Instructions" attached hereto and made a part of this contract.  The Government shall make provisional payments on all invoices pending the completion of a final audit of the Contractor's cost records.



(2)  To expedite payment, invoices shall be sent, as follows:



(a)  Monthly invoices (original and four copies) shall be sent per "Billing Instructions" directly to the address below (where applicable, the Contractor shall submit the invoice to said office via the cognizant government auditor):



Department of Health and Human Services

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

P.O. 







(b)  Content of Invoice (If Applicable):



-   Contractor's name and invoice date;

-   Contract number of other authorization for delivery of

    property and/or services;

-   Description, cost or price, and quantity of property

    and/or services actually delivered or rendered;

-   Shipping and payment terms;

-   Other substantiating documentation or information as

    required by the contract; and

-   Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and complete

    mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is

    to be sent.



G.3    PAYMENT (COST RIEMBURSEMENT)



(1) In accordance with FAR 52.232-33, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) shall only make an electronic reimbursement/payment.    



In accordance with FAR 52.204-7, the contractor must register in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.  Failure to register in CCR may prohibit CMS from making awards to your organization. 



The contractor shall notify CMS' Division of Accounting Operations of all EFT and address changes in CCR via the following email address:  CCRChanges@cms.hhs.gov



(2)  The target date for payment pursuant to the provision of FAR Clause, 52.216-7 "Allowable Cost and Payment" of this contract shall be 30 calendar days after an invoice containing the information set forth in Paragraph "a" of this article is received in the payment office designated herein.



(3)  Upon receipt of the Contractor's "completion invoice" in the payment office designated in Paragraph "a" of this article, payment of any remaining cost and fee determined to be allowable pursuant to the provisions of FAR Clause, 52.216-7 "Allowable Cost and Payment" of this contract shall be due 30 calendar days after the Contracting Officer approves the "completion invoice" for payment.



(4)  Payment shall be authorized after the Division of Accounting has audited the invoice in accordance with Federal Regulations.  This audit includes verification that the invoice contains the rates/unit prices, those indicated in the contract or purchase order.  Any discrepancies determined as a result of the audit, could delay the processing of the invoice and may result in the invoice being returned to the vendor for correction.  Inquiries relating to payments should be directed to



G.4	PROJECT OFFICER  	



TBD is hereby designated as the Project Officer.  The Project Officer responsibilities shall include continuous overall monitoring of the Contractor’s compliance with all substantive project objectives.  Specific duties and responsibilities are identified in G.5, Technical Direction.



G.5	TECHNICAL DIRECTION  	



a.	Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the .  The term "technical direction" is defined to include, without limitation, the following:



-	Directions to the Contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish the contractual statement of work.



-	Provision of information to the Contractor which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work description.



-	Review and, where required by the contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract.



b.	Technical direction must be within the general Statement of Work stated in the contract. The  does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical directions which:



(1)	Constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general Statement of Work of the contract.



(2)	Constitutes a change as defined in the FAR contract clause entitled:



52.243-2     Changes - Cost-Reimbursement. (AUG 1987) - Alternate I     APR 1984



(3)	In any manner cause an increase or decrease in the total estimated contract cost, fixed-fee, or the time required for contract performance.



(4)	Change any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract.



c.	All technical direction shall be issued in writing by the  or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within 5 working days after issuance.



d.	The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the  in the manner prescribed by this article and within his/her authority under the provisions of this article.



e.	If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the PO is within one of the categories as defined in b(l) through b(4) above, the Contractor shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer in accordance with FAR 52.243-7, Notification of Changes.





G.6	CONTRACTING OFFICER RESPONSIBILITY



In accordance with FAR 52.201-1 Definitions, The term Contracting Officer means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings.  The term includes certain authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within the limits of their authority delegated by the Contracting Officer.

 

Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this Contract, the Contracting Officer shall be the ONLY individual authorized to:



a.	enter into and commit/bind the Government by contract for supplies or services;



b.	accept nonconforming work or waive any requirement of this Contract;



c.	authorize reimbursement to the Contractor for any costs incurred during the performance of the Contract, and



d.	modify any term or condition of this Contract, i.e., make any changes in the Statement of Work; modify/extend the period of performance; change the delivery schedule.



G.7	PROJECT DIRECTOR/PROJECT MANAGER					



TBD will serve as Contractor’s Project Director/Project Manager.  It will be his responsibility to obtain the staff necessary and to direct the work for the conduct of this project.  The Government reserves the right to approve any necessary successor to be designated as Contractor’s Project Director/Project Manager.



G.8	HHSAR 352.270-5 KEY PERSONNEL  	



The personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder.  Prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance and shall submit justification* (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the program.  No diversion shall be made by the Contractor without the written consent of the Contracting Officer; provided, that the Contracting Officer may ratify in writing such diversion and such ratification shall constitute the consent of the Contracting Officer required by the clause.  The contract may be amended from time to time during the course of the contract to either add or delete personnel, as appropriate. 



*All proposed substitutions shall be submitted, in writing, to CMS at least 30 days prior to the proposed substitution.  Each request shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstance necessitating the proposed substitution, a complete resume and any other information required by CMS.  All proposed substitutions shall have qualifications equal to or greater than the person being replaced.



The following individuals are considered key personnel under this contract:



TBD



G.9	WORKING PAPERS  	



The Contractor shall provide, at the request of the Contracting Officer, all the working papers used by the participating officials and employees of the Contractor in connection with this project.



G.10	DATA TO BE DELIVERED



a.	Any working papers, interim reports, data given by the Government or first produced by the Contractor under the contract or collected or otherwise obtained by the Contractor under the contract, or results obtained or developed by the Contractor (subcontractor or consultants) pursuant to the fulfillment of this contract are to be delivered, documented, and formatted as directed by the Contracting Officer.



b.	In addition, information and/or data, which are held by the Contractor related to the operation of their business and/or institution and which are obtained without the use of Federal funds, shall be considered “PROPRIETARY DATA” and are not subject data to be delivered under this contract.



G.11	 INDIRECT COST - PROVISIONAL RATES  



a.  Pursuant to the provisions of FAR 52.216-07 entitled "Allowable Cost & Payment," in Section I of this contract, the allowable Indirect Costs under this contract shall be obtained by applying the final rates or rates negotiated to the appropriate bases.  The period or periods for which such rates will be established shall correspond to the Contractor's fiscal year(s).  The final rate proposal is to be submitted to the Contracting Officer at:



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Acquisition and Grants Group

Attn: Contracting Officer

C2-21-15



 



In the event that the final rate proposal is submitted to the cognizant audit agency, the Contractor shall advise the Contracting Officer in writing when and to whom it was submitted.



b.  Pending establishment of final rates for any fiscal year period, provisional reimbursement will be made on the basis of the provisional rates shown below.  

									

Type          		     	Rate		Ceiling Rate

TBD



G.12	SERVICE OF CONSULTANTS



a.  Except as may otherwise be expressly provided elsewhere in this contract, prior written approval of the Contracting Officer for utilization of consultants shall be required.  Whenever Contracting Officer approval is required, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer information concerning the need for such consultant services and the reasonableness of the fees to be paid to any consultants.



b.  For utilization of the services of any consultants under this contract, the contractor shall be reimbursed in accordance with the rate(s) set forth below.  If not identified below, the contractor shall be reimbursed for utilization of consultant services at a rate determined to be reasonable and appropriate for the services, exclusive of travel costs.



                		Rate        	Number     	Total Cost







G.13. 	DISSEMINATION, PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION



a.  Data and information either provided to the Contractor, or to any subcontractor or generated by activities under this contract or derived from research or studies supported by this contract, shall be used only for the purposes of the contract.  It shall not be duplicated, used or disclosed for any purpose other than the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract.  This restriction does not limit the contractor's right to use data or information obtained from a non-restrictive source.  Any questions concerning "privileged information" shall be referred to the Contracting Officer.



b.  Some data or information may require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that preliminary findings which could create erroneous conclusions are not stimulated.  Also, some data or information, which relate to policy matters under consideration by the Government, may also require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that the open and vigorous debate, within the government, of possible policy options is not damaged.



c.  Any questions about use or release of the data or information or handling of material under this contract, shall be referred to the Contracting Officer who must render a written determination.  The Contracting Officer's determinations will reflect the results of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

d.  Written advance notice of at least forty-five (45) days shall be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's desire to release findings of studies or research or data or information described above.  If the Contractor disagrees with the Contracting Officer's determination, and if this disagreement cannot be settled by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer in a mutually satisfactory manner, then the issue will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause.



e.  Any presentation of any report, statistical or analytical material based on information obtained from this contract shall be subject to review by the Project Officer before dissemination , publication, or distribution.  Presentation includes, but is not limited to, papers, articles, professional publications, speeches, testimony or interviews with public print or broadcast media.  This does not apply to information that would be available under the Federal Freedom of Information Act.



f.  The Project Officer review shall cover accuracy, content, manner of presentation of the information, and also the protection of the privacy of individuals.  If the review finds that the Privacy Act is or may be violated, the release/use of the presentation shall be denied until the offending material is removed or until the Contracting Officer makes a formal determination, in writing, that the privacy of individuals is not being violated.



g.  If the review shows that the accuracy, content, or manner of presentation is not correct or is inappropriate in the light of the purpose of the project, the Project Officer shall immediately inform the Contractor, in writing, of the nature of the problem.  If the Contractor disagrees, the Project Officer may insist that the presentation contain, in a manner of equal importance, materials which show the government's problem with the presentation.



h.  The Contractor agrees to acknowledge support by CMS whenever reports of projects funding, in whole or in part, by this contract are published in any medium.  The Contractor shall include in any publication resulting from work under this contract, an acknowledgement substantially, as follows:



"The analyses upon which this publication is based were performed under Contract Number HHSM-500-2010- TBD, entitled, " Research, Data, and Information System (RDIS) Development."



Any deviation from the above legend shall be approved, in writing, by the Contracting Officer.



G.14	TRAVEL COSTS 



Costs incurred for lodging, meals and incidental expenses shall be considered to be reasonable, allowable and allocable under this contract only to the extent that they do not exceed, on a daily basis, the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the latest Federal Travel Regulations.  The full text of the Federal Travel Regulations may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.doi.gov/pfm/oden/toc.html.



G.15	PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION  



The CMS Contract Property Administrator, Property and Distribution Management Section, Division of General Services, 7500 Security Blvd., Baltimore, Md. 21244, is hereby designated the property administration function for this contract. The Contractor agrees to furnish information regarding Government Property to the Property Administrator in the manner and to the extent required by the Property Administrator, his duly designated successors, and in accordance with FAR Part 45 and DHHS Manual entitled, Contractor's Guide for Control of Government Property, (1990).



If equipment is procured in order to provide services, CMS will retain title to the equipment.  CMS must be notified as part of the itemized billing arrangement if there is an equipment acquisition, included in the cost of the contract.



All original tapes, video, CD ROM's, manual, brochures, pamphlets shall remain the property of the CMS.  The contractor shall provide to CMS all final, complete and editable web-based training course files. 



If equipment is procured in the performance of this contract, CMS will retain title to the equipment.  CMS must be notified as part of the itemized billing arrangement if there is an equipment acquisition, included in the cost of the contract.



G.16  	AUDIT OF HOURS  



a.  In addition to the examination of costs, as detailed in FAR Clause No. 52.215-02 entitled "Audit-Negotiation," the Contracting Officer or his representatives will have the right to examine all books, records, documents and other data of the Contractor relating to this contract for the purpose of evaluating the accuracy and completeness of the hours which the Contractor has recorded on his invoices as expended toward satisfaction of the requirements of this contract.



b.  The materials described above shall be made available at the office of the Contractor, at all reasonable times, for inspection, audit or reproduction until:



(1)  The expiration of three (3) years from the date of final payment under this contract,



(2)  the expiration of three (3) years from the date of final settlement resulting from a termination or a partial termination of this contract.



G.17	CORRESPONDENCE PROCEDURES



To promote timely and effective administration, correspondence (except for invoices), submitted under this contact shall be subject to the following procedures:



a.	Technical Correspondence - Technical correspondence (as used herein, this term excludes technical correspondence which proposes or otherwise involves waivers, deviations or modifications to the requirements, terms or conditions of this contract) shall be addressed to the PO/GTL with an informational copy of the basic correspondence to the Contracting Officer.



b.	Other Correspondence - All other correspondence shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer, in duplicate, with an informational copy of the basic correspondence to the PO/GTL.



c. 	Subject Lines - All correspondence shall contain a subject line, commencing with the contract number as illustrated below:





EXAMPLE:	Contract No. HHSM-500-2010- TBD

Request for Subcontract Consent



G.18 	FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY



When facilities capital cost of money (cost of capital committed to facilities) is included as an item of cost in the contractor's proposal, a reduction in the profit objective shall be made in an amount equal to the amount of facilities capital cost of money allowed in accordance with the Facilities Capital Cost-of Money Cost Principal.  



If the contractor does not propose this cost, facilities capital cost of money is not an allowable cost.



G.19	SUBCONTRACT CONSENT



To facilitate the review of proposed subcontracts, the Contractor shall include in its proposal the information required by the FAR Clause 52.244-2 entitled, "Subcontracts".  



In all other instances the Contractor shall submit its request for subcontracting consent to the Contracting Officer.  The Contracting Officer shall consult with the Project Officer and advise the Contractor of his/her decision to consent to or dissent from the proposed subcontract, in writing.  



G.20	USE OF GOVERNMENT – DATA (REPORTS/FILES/COMPUTER TAPES OR DISKETTES)



Any data given to the Contractor by the Government shall be used only for the performance of the contract unless the Contracting Officer specifically permits another use, in writing.  Should the Contracting Officer permit the Contractor the use of Government-supplied data for a purpose other than solely for performance of this contract and, if such use could result in a commercially viable product, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor must negotiate a financial benefit to the Government.  This benefit should most often be in the form of a reduction in the price of the contract; however, the Contracting Officer may negotiate any other benefits he/she determines is adequate compensation for the use of these data.



Upon the request of the Contracting Officer, or the expiration date of this contract, whichever shall come first, the Contractor shall return or destroy all data given to the Contractor by the Government.  However, the Contracting Officer may direct that the data be retained by the Contractor for a specific period of time, which period shall be subject to agreement by the Contractor.  Whether the data are to be returned, retained, or destroyed shall be the decision of the Contracting Officer with the exception that the Contractor may refuse to retain the data. The Contractor shall retain no data, copies of data, or parts thereof, in any form, when the Contracting Officer directs that the data be returned or destroyed.  If the data are to be destroyed, the Contractor shall directly furnish evidence of such destruction in a form the Contracting Officer shall determine is adequate.



G.21  	ESRS REPORTING



The Contractor shall report all subcontract awards to small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZones, veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.  The reports shall be prepared using the electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) via the internet at .  The Individual Subcontracting Report (ISR), formerly SF 294, shall be submitted semi-annually for the periods of October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30.  The Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR), formerly, SF 295 shall be submitted annually for the period of October 1 through September 30.



G.22  	POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE



Contractor Performance Evaluations



Interim annual, and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.15.  The final performance evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work.  At the discretion of the Contracting Officer, interim evaluations should be considered.  Annual evaluations shall be prepared to coincide with the anniversary date of the contract.



A copy of all evaluations should be provided to the Contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the annual and final evaluation.  The Contractor will be permitted thirty (30) days to review the document and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement.  Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to the Deputy Director, Acquisition and Grants Group, whose decision will be final.



Copies of the evaluation, contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and will be used to support future award decisions.



Electronic Access to Contractor Performance Evaluations



Contractors that have Internet capability may access evaluations through a secure Web site for review and comment by completing the registration form that can be obtained at the following address: https://cpscontractor.nih.gov.



To register, simply logon and click on the “Register Here” link.  This site provides instructions on how to register and offers computer-based training for contractors through the “CPS Contractor On-Line Training” hyperlink.  There is no fee for registration or use of this system.  Electronic evaluations are available to registered contractors for review 30 days from the date the evaluation is sent.



The registration process requires the contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact and who will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment.  In addition, the contractor will be required to identify an alternate contact who will be responsible for notifying the cognizant contracting official in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time frame.



G.23	GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (GPO)



Printing will be performed in accordance with the Government Printing Office (GPO) Style Manual, 29th Edition (2000), United States Government Printing Office, .



Government Printing



Printing . The acquisition of printing  and high volume duplicating by contract is prohibited unless it is authorized by the Joint Committee on Printing  of the U.S. Congress. Procedures to be followed are contained in the "Government Printing  and Binding Regulations" and the HHS Printing  Management Manual and FAR subpart 8.8.



	8.802 Policy.



(a) Government printing must be done by or through the Government Printing Office (GPO ) (44 U.S.C. 501), unless -



(1) The GPO  cannot provide the printing service (44 U.S.C. 504);



(2) The printing is done in field printing plants operated by an executive agency (44 U.S.C. 501(2));



(3) The printing is acquired by an executive agency from allotments for contract field printing (44 U.S.C. 501(2)); or



(4) The printing is specifically authorized by statute to be done other than by the GPO .



(b) The head of each agency shall designate a central printing authority; that central printing authority may serve as the liaison with the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) and the Public Printer on matters related to printing. Contracting officers shall obtain approval from their designated central printing authority before contracting in any manner, whether directly or through contracts for supplies or services, for the items defined in 8.801  and for composition, platemaking, presswork, binding, and micrographics (when used as a substitute for printing).



(c)(1) Further, 44 U.S.C. 1121 provides that the Public Printer may acquire and furnish paper and envelopes (excluding envelopes printed in the course of manufacture) in common use by two or more Government departments, establishments, or services within the District of Columbia, and provides for reimbursement of the Public Printer from available appropriations or funds. Paper and envelopes that are furnished by the Public Printer may not be acquired in any other manner.



(2) Paper and envelopes for use by Executive agencies outside the  and stocked by GSA shall be requisitioned from GSA in accordance with the procedures listed in Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) Subpart 101-26.3.



G.24	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY



During performance of this contract, the contractor will be required to acquire equipment, or data; or use government furnished/owned equipment on a no-charge, non-interference basis.  At such time, the provisions of FAR Clause No. 52.245-1 entitled “Government Property”, shall become applicable.  



G.25	QUALITY ASSURANCE



The IT Technical Management Contractor shall ensure the timeliness and quality of the deliverables for the duration of this task.  The GTL will review deliverables, provide comments for revisions, frequently monitoring IT Technical Management Contractor activities, and conduct routine status meetings.  In addition, review of progress reporting will also help support the monitoring of the IT Technical Management Contractor’s work.



G.26	COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (FAR SUBPART 30.2)



Pursuant to the requirements of FAR Subpart 30.2 – CAS Program Requirements, it has been determined that the Contractor’s Accounting System has not been reviewed pending implementation of a new accounting system.  In that regard, the contractor has agreed to implement an adequate accounting system no later than November 30, 2008.  If CMS determines that the system does not meet the requirements of FAR Subpart 30.2, the Contractor must correct any inadequacies by February 28, 2009.  Until such time as an adequate accounting system has been approved and indirect cost provisional rates are established, the contractor shall bill all costs on an actual incurred cost basis.



If the contractor has not implemented an adequate accounting system by February 28, 2009, CMS reserves the right to terminate this contract in the best interest of the Government and negotiate a mutually agreeable settlement amount.



G.27 	BILLING INSTRUCTIONS



INVOICE/FINANCING REQUEST INSTRUCTIONS FOR COST-REIMBURSEMENT TYPE CONTRACTS



General:  The Contractor shall submit claims for reimbursement in the manner and format described herein and as illustrated in the sample invoice/financing request.



Format:  Standard Form 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal; and Standard Form 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal--Continuation Sheet, or reproduced copies of such forms marked ORIGINAL should be used to submit claims for reimbursement. 



Number of Copies:  As indicated in the Invoice Submission/Contract Financing Request clause in the contract.



Frequency:  Invoices/financing requests submitted in accordance with the payment clause shall be submitted monthly unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer.



Cost Incurrence Period:  Costs incurred must be within the contract performance period or covered by pre-contract cost provisions.



Billing of Costs Incurred:  If billed costs include: (1) Costs of a prior billing period, but not previously billed, or (2) costs incurred during the contract period and claimed after the contract period has expired, the amount and month(s) in which such costs were incurred shall be cited.



Contractor's Fiscal Year:  Invoices/financing requests shall be prepared in such a manner that costs claimed can be identified with the Contractor's fiscal year.



Currency:  All CMS contracts are expressed in  dollars.  Where expenditures are made in a currency other than  dollars, billings on the contract shall be  expressed, and reimbursement by the United States Government shall be made, in that other currency at amounts coincident with actual costs incurred.  Currency fluctuations may not be a basis of gain or loss to the Contractor.  Notwithstanding the above, the total of all invoices paid under this contract may not exceed the  dollars authorized.



Costs Requiring Prior Approval:  Costs requiring the Contracting Officer's approval which are not set forth in an advance understanding in the contract shall be so identified.  



Invoice/Financing Request Identification:  Each invoice/financing request shall be identified as either:



(a)  Cost Reimbursable - Financing Request:  These are interim payment requests submitted during the contract performance period.



(b)  Completion/Final Invoice:  The completion invoice is a final invoice which is submitted promptly upon completion of the work, but no later than one year from the contract completion date.  The completion invoice should be submitted when all costs (except for finalization of indirect cost rates) have been assigned to the contract and all performance provisions have been completed.  A revised final invoice may be required after the amounts owed have been settled between the Government and the Contractor (e.g., final indirect cost rates and resolution of all suspensions and audit exceptions).



Preparation and Itemization of the Invoice/Financing Request:  The Contractor shall furnish the information set forth in the explanatory notes below.  These notes are keyed to the entries of the sample invoice/financing request.



(a)  Paying Office and Address:  The paying office and address, identified in the Invoice Submission/Contract Financing Request clause of the contract, shall be entered on all copies of the invoice/financing request.



(b)  Invoice/Financing Request Number:  Insert the appropriate serial number of the invoice/financing request.



(c)  Date of Invoice/Financing Request:  Insert the date of the invoice/financing request is prepared.



(d)  Contract Number and Date:  Insert the contract number and the date of the contract.



(e)  Payee's Name and Address:  Show the Contractor's name (as it appears in the contract), correct address, and the title and phone number of the responsible official to whom payment is to be sent.  When an approved assignment has been made by the Contractor, or a different payee has been designated, then insert the name and address of the payee instead of the Contractor.

 

(f)  Contract Amount:  Insert the total estimated cost of the contract, exclusive of fixed-fee.  For incrementally funded contracts, enter the amount currently obligated and available for payment.



(g)  Fixed-Fee:  Insert the total fixed-fee (where applicable).



(h)  Billing Period:  Insert the beginning and ending dates (day, month, and year of the period in which costs were incurred and for which reimbursement is claimed.



(I)  Amount Billed for Current Period:  Insert the amount billed for the major cost elements, adjustment and adjusted amounts for the period.



(j)  Cumulative Amount from Inception to Date of this Billing:  Insert the cumulative amounts billed for the major cost elements and adjusted amounts claimed during this contract.



(k)  Direct Costs:  Insert the major cost elements.  For each element, consider the application of the paragraph entitled Costs Requiring Prior Approval on page 1 of these instructions.



(1)  Direct Labor:  This consists of salaries and wages paid (or accrued for direct performance of the contract.



(2)  Fringe Benefits:  This represents fringe benefits applicable to direct labor and billed as a direct cost.  Fringe benefits included in indirect costs should not be identified here.



(3)  Nonexpendable Equipment:  This category of cost includes permanent research equipment and general purpose equipment having a unit acquisition cost of $1,000 or more and having an expected service life of more than two years. Prepare and attach Form HHS-565 in accordance with the following instructions:



List each item for which reimbursement is requested.  A reference shall be made to the following (as applicable):



(A)  The item number for the specific piece of equipment listed in the Property Schedule;



(B)  The Contracting Officer's Authorization letter and number, if the equipment is not covered by the Property Schedule, or;



(C)  Be preceded by an asterisk (*) if the equipment is below the approval level.



Further itemization of invoices/financing requests shall only be required for items having specific limitations set forth in the contract.



(4)  Materials and Supplies:  This category includes equipment  with unit costs of less than $500 or an expected service life of two years or less, and consumable material and supplies regardless of amount.



(5)  Premium Pay:  This is remuneration in excess of the basic hourly rate.



(6)  Consultant Fee:  Fees paid to consultants.  Identify consultant by name or category as set forth in the contract's advance understanding , as well as the effort (i.e., number of hours, days, etc.) and rate being billed.



(7)  Travel:  Domestic travel is travel within the , its territories, possessions and  for Contractors located there; otherwise it is the Contractor's own country.  It should be billed separately from foreign travel.



(8)  Subcontract Costs:  List subcontractor(s) by name and amount billed.



(9)  Other:  List all other direct costs in total unless exceeding $1,000 in amount.  If over $1,000, list cost elements and dollar amount separately.  If the contract contains restrictions on any cost element, that cost element should be listed separately.



(l)  Cost of Money (COM):  Cite the COM factor and base in effect during the time the cost was incurred and for which reimbursement is claimed.



(m)  Indirect Costs--Overhead:  Cite the formula (rate and base) in effect during the time the cost was incurred and for which reimbursement is claimed.  If special rate is being used; e.g., off-site, then so specify.



(n)  Fixed-Fee:  If the contract provides for a fixed-fee, it must be claimed as provided for by the contract.  Cite the formula or method of computation.



(o) Total Amounts Claimed:  Insert the total amounts claimed for the current and cumulative periods.



(p) Adjustments:  This includes amounts conceded by the Contractor, outstanding suspensions and disapprovals subject to appeal.



(q)  Grand Totals




SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS 																																																																																																		





H.1	HHSAR 352.270-7 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (JAN 2006)  



(a) This contract involves a requirement to collect or record information calling either for answers to identical questions from 10 or more persons other than Federal employees, or information from Federal employees which is outside the scope of their employment, for use by the Federal government or disclosure to third parties; therefore, the  (Pub. L. 104–13) shall apply to this contract. No plan, questionnaire, interview guide or other similar device for collecting information (whether repetitive or single time) may be used without first obtaining clearance from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Contractors and Project Officers should be guided by the provisions of , Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, and seek the advice of the HHS operating division or Office of the Secretary Reports Clearance Officer to determine the procedures for acquiring OMB clearance. 



(b) The Contractor shall not expend any funds or begin any data collection until OMB Clearance is received. Once OMB Clearance is received from the Project Officer, the Contracting Officer shall provide the Contractor with written notification authorizing the expenditure of funds and the collection of data. The Contractor must allow at least 120 days for OMB clearance. Excessive delays caused by the Government which arise out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor will be considered in accordance with the Excusable Delays or Default clause of this contract. 



H.2   	CONDITIONS FOR PERFORMANCE



In addition to the performance requirements of this contract as set forth under Section C, the Contractor may be required to comply with the requirements of any revisions in legislation or regulations which may be enacted or implemented during the period of performance of this contract, and are directly applicable to the performance requirements of this contract.



Such legislative or regulatory requirements shall become a part of this contract only through an execution of a contract modification by the Contracting Officer. The contractor will be consulted and participate in negotiations to effect an equitable adjustment to the contract.



H. 3  	HIPAA BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROVISION  II   



Definitions:



All terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning as in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA,” 42 U.S.C. sec. 1320d) and the corresponding implementing regulations.  Provisions governing the Contractor’s duties and obligations under the Privacy Act (including data use agreements) are covered elsewhere in the contract.

"Business Associate'' shall mean the Contractor.

"Covered Entity" shall mean CMS’ Medicare Fee for Service program and/or Medicare’s Prescription Drug Discount Care and Transitional Assistance Programs.

"Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services or the Secretary’s designee.



Obligations and Activities of Business Associate



(a) Business Associate agrees to not use or disclose Protected Health Information (“PHI”), as defined in 45 C.F.R. § 160.103, created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as permitted or required by this Contract or as required by law.

(b) Business Associate agrees to use safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of PHI created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as provided for by this Contract.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to use appropriate administrative, physical and technical safeguards that reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the electronic protected health information (“EPHI”), as defined in 45 C.F.R. 160.103, it creates, receives, maintains or transmits on behalf of the Covered Entity to prevent use or disclosure of such EPHI.

(c) Business Associate agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is known to Business Associate of a use or disclosure of PHI by Business Associate in violation of the requirements of this Contract. 

(d) Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any use or disclosure involving PHI it receives/maintains from/on behalf of the Covered Entity that is not provided for by this Contract of which it becomes aware.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any security incident involving EPHI of which it becomes aware.

(e) Business Associate agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply through this Contract to Business Associate with respect to such information.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to ensure that its agents and subcontractors implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards for the PHI received from or on behalf of the Business Associate.

(f) Business Associate agrees to provide access, at the request of Covered Entity, to PHI received by Business Associate in the course of contract performance, to Covered Entity or, as directed by Covered Entity, to an Individual in order to meet the requirements under 45 CFR § 164.524. 

(g) Business Associate agrees to make any amendment(s) to PHI in a Designated Record Set that Covered Entity directs or agrees to pursuant to 45 CFR § 164.526 upon request of Covered Entity.

(h) Business Associate agrees to make internal practices, books, and records, including policies and procedures and PHI, relating to the use and disclosure of PHI received from, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, available to Covered Entity, or to the Secretary for purposes of the Secretary determining Covered Entity's compliance with the various rules implementing the HIPAA. 

(i) Business Associate agrees to document such disclosures of PHI and information related to such disclosures as would be required for Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528.

(j) Business Associate agrees to provide to Covered Entity, or an individual identified by the Covered Entity, information collected under this Contract, to permit Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528.



Permitted Uses and Disclosures by Business Associate



Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use or disclose PHI on behalf of, or to provide services to, Covered Entity for purposes of the performance of this Contract, if such use or disclosure of PHI would not violate the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules if done by Covered Entity or the minimum necessary policies and procedures of Covered Entity.



Obligations of Covered Entity



(a) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any limitation(s) in its notice of privacy practices of Covered Entity in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.520, to the extent that such limitation may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.

(b) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any changes in, or revocation of, permission by Individual to use or disclose PHI, to the extent that such changes may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.

(c) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any restriction to the use or disclosure of PHI that Covered Entity has agreed to in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.522, to the extent that such restriction may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.



Permissible Requests by Covered Entity



Covered Entity shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose PHI in any manner that would not be permissible under the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules.



Term of Provision



(a) The term of this Provision shall be effective as of  {insert effective date}, and shall terminate when all of the PHI provided by Covered Entity to Business Associate, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, is destroyed or returned to Covered Entity, or, if it is infeasible to return or destroy PHI, protections are extended to such information, in accordance with the termination provisions in this Section.

(b) Upon Covered Entity's knowledge of a material breach by Business Associate, Covered Entity shall either:

(1) Provide an opportunity for Business Associate to cure the breach or end the violation consistent with the termination terms of this Contract.  Covered Entity may terminate this Contract for default if the Business Associate does not cure the breach or end the violation within the time specified by Covered Entity; or

(2) Consistent with the terms of this Contract, terminate this Contract for default if Business Associate has breached a material term of this Contract and cure is not possible; or

(3) If neither termination nor cure is feasible, Covered Entity shall report the violation to the Secretary.

(c) Effect of Termination.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this section, upon termination of this Contract, for any reason, Business Associate shall return or destroy all PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity. This provision shall apply to PHI that is in the possession of subcontractors or agents of Business Associate. Business Associate shall retain no copies of the PHI.

(2) In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying the PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to Covered Entity notification of the conditions that make return or destruction infeasible.  Upon such notice that return or destruction of PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall extend the protections of this Contract to such PHI and limit further uses and disclosures of such PHI to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as Business Associate maintains such PHI.



Miscellaneous



(a) A reference in this Contract to a section in the Rules issued under HIPAA means the section as in effect or as amended.

(b) The Parties agree to take such action as is necessary to amend this Contract from time to time as is necessary for Covered Entity to comply with the requirements of the Rules issued under HIPAA.

(c) The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under paragraph (c) of the section entitled “term of Provision” shall survive the termination of this Contract.

(d) Any ambiguity in this Contract shall be resolved to permit Covered Entity to comply with the Rules implemented under HIPAA.



H.4	CMS IDENTITY MARK GUIDELINES



Agency

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).



Summary

These usage guidelines provide information and instructions to all approved entities on the use of the CMS identity mark.



Authorized Users

The CMS mark is available for use by CMS staff and partners involved in CMS programs. CMS staff may use the mark after obtaining approval from their manager(s). Partners, contractors and other stakeholders may use the mark after obtaining approval from CMS Graphics. The mark may not be used for promotion of private, for-profit entities, nor may the name or mark be used to promote one service over another within CMS programs.

 Section 1140 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. §1320b-10, prohibits the use of the words "Medicare" or "Medicaid" in an manner which would convey the false impression that such item is approved, endorsed, or authorized by CMS or DHHS, or that such person has some connection with, or authorization from, CMS or DHHS. Unauthorized use of the CMS mark should be reported to CMS Graphics, , C1-16-03, .



Use of Identity Mark on Items for  or Distribution

Only CMS and its partners may use the CMS name or mark on items they distribute, provided the items follow guidelines for National Gifts as stated below. Items with the CMS mark generally should not be sold for profit.

National Gifts provision: Some entities may choose to offer gifts to the public. This practice is permitted as long as the gifts are of nominal value and are provided whether or not the individual is enrolled in a CMS program. Nominal value is defined as an item worth $15 or less, based upon the retail purchase price of the item.



Approval

Requests to distribute items bearing the CMS name or mark must be submitted to CMS Graphics, within timeframes established by the liaison prior to the anticipated date of production. Approval requests will be effective for a period not to exceed the initial printing (for tangible items) or six (6) months (for advertising).



Restrictions

Unless otherwise approved, all unauthorized individuals, organizations, and commercial firms must discontinue producing materials bearing the old HCFA mark and/or the CMS "namefile" on the effective date of this notice.



Download Files

Thirty-seven different versions of the CMS Mark are available in a variety of file formats and computer platforms. Upon authorization, files may be downloaded at the following URL <http://cms.hhs.gov/images/cmsmark>.

Questions regarding use of the CMS mark shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer.  



H.5	SECURITY CLAUSE -BACKGROUND - INVESTIGATIONS FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL



If applicable, Contractor personnel performing services for CMS under this contract, task order or delivery order shall be required to undergo a background investigation. CMS will pay for the background investigations.



After contract award, the CMS Project Officer (PO) and the Emergency Management & Response Group (EMRG), with the assistance of the Contractor, shall perform a position-sensitivity analysis based on the duties contractor personnel shall perform on the contract, task order or delivery order.  The results of the position-sensitivity analysis will determine first, whether the provisions of this clause are applicable to the contract and second, if applicable, determine each position’s sensitivity level (i.e., high risk, moderate risk or low risk) and dictate the appropriate level of background investigation to be processed.  Investigative packages may contain the following forms:  



1.  SF-85,  , 09/1995

2.  SF-85P, , 09/1995

3.  OF-612, , 12/2002

4.  OF-306, , 01/2001 

5.  

6.  FD-258, , 5/99, and 

7.  CMS-730A,  (NON-CMS ONLY), 11/2003.  



The Contractor personnel shall be required to undergo a background investigation commensurate with one of these position-sensitivity levels:



1)  High Risk (Level 6)



Public Trust positions that would have a potential for exceptionally serious impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service. This would include computer security of a major automated information system (AIS).  This includes positions in which the incumbent’s actions or inaction could diminish public confidence in the integrity, efficiency, or effectiveness of assigned government activities, whether or not actual damage occurs, particularly if duties are especially critical to the agency or program mission with a broad scope of responsibility and authority. 



Major responsibilities that would require this level include:



development and administration of CMS computer security programs, including direction and control of risk analysis and/or threat assessment; significant involvement in mission-critical systems; preparation or approval of data for input into a system which does not necessarily involve personal access to the system but with relatively high risk of causing grave damage or realizing significant personal gain;  other responsibilities that involve relatively high risk of causing damage or realizing personal gain; policy implementation; higher level management duties/assignments or major program responsibility; or independent spokespersons or non-management position with authority for independent action.



Approximate cost of each investigation:  $3,500



2)  Moderate Risk (Level 5)



Public Trust positions that have potential for moderate to serious impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service, including computer security.  These positions involve duties of considerable importance to the CMS mission with significant program responsibilities that could cause damage to large portions of AIS.  Duties involved are considerably important to the agency or program mission with significant program responsibility, or delivery of service.   Responsibilities that would require this level include:



the direction, planning, design, operation, or maintenance of a computer system and whose work is technically reviewed by a higher authority at the High Risk level to ensure the integrity of the system; systems design, operation, testing, maintenance, and/or monitoring that are carried out under the technical review of a higher authority at the High Risk level; access to and/or processing of information requiring protection under the Privacy Act of 1974; assists in policy development and implementation; mid-level management duties/assignments; any position with responsibility for independent or semi-independent action; or delivery of service positions that demand public confidence or trust.



Approximate cost range of each investigation:  $150 - $2,600



3)  Low Risk (Level 1)



Positions having the potential for limited interaction with the agency or program mission, so the potential for impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service is small.  This includes computer security impact on AIS.  



Approximate cost of each investigation: $100 



The Contractor shall submit the investigative package(s) to the EMRG within three (3) days after being advised by the EMRG of the need to submit packages.  Investigative packages shall be submitted to the following address: 



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Operations Management

Emergency Management & Response Group

Mail Stop SL-13-15

 





The Contractor shall submit a copy of the transmittal letter to the Contracting Officer (CO). 



Contractor personnel shall submit a CMS-730A (Request for Badge) to the EMRG (see attachment in Section J).  The Contractor and the  shall obtain all necessary signatures on the CMS-730A prior to any Contractor employee arriving for fingerprinting and badge processing.  



The Contractor must appoint a Security Investigation Liaison as a point of contact to resolve any issues of inaccurate or incomplete form(s).  Where personal information is involved, EMRG may need to contact the contractor employee directly.  The Security Investigation Liaison may be required to facilitate such contact.



After EMRG fingerprints contractor personnel and issues them a temporary CMS identification badge, the EMRG will send their completed investigative package to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  OPM will conduct the background investigation.  Badges will be provided by EMRG while contractor personnel investigative forms are being processed.  The Contractor remains fully responsible for ensuring contract, task order or delivery order performance pending completion of background investigations of contractor personnel.



EMRG shall provide written notification to the CO with a copy to the  of all suitability decisions.  The  shall then notify the Contractor in writing of the approval of the Contractor’s employee(s), at that time the Contractor’s employee(s) will receive a permanent identification badge.  Contractor personnel who the EMRG determines to be ineligible may be required to cease working on the contract immediately.



The Contractor shall report immediately in writing to EMRG with copies to the CO and the , any adverse information regarding any of its employees that may impact their ability to perform under this contract, task order or delivery order.  Reports should be based on reliable and substantiated information, not on rumor or innuendo.  The report shall include the contractor employee’s name and social security number, along with the adverse information being reported.  



Contractor personnel shall be provided an opportunity to explain or refute unfavorable information found in an investigation to EMRG before an adverse adjudication is made.   Contractor personnel may request, in writing, a copy of their own investigative results by contacting:  



Office of Personnel Management

Freedom of Information

Federal Investigations Processing Center



Boyers, PA 16018-0618.



At the Agency’s discretion, if an investigated contractor employee leaves the employment of the contractor, or otherwise is no longer associated with the contract, task order, or delivery order within one (1) year from the date the background investigation was completed, then the Contractor may be required to reimburse CMS for the full cost of the investigation.  Depending upon the type of background investigation conducted, the cost could be approximately $100 to $3,500.  The amount to be paid by the Contractor shall be due and payable when the CO submits a written letter notifying the Contractor as to the cost of the investigation. The Contractor shall pay the amount due within thirty (30) days of the date of the CO’s letter by check made payable to the “United States Treasury.” The Contractor shall provide a copy of the CO’s letter as an attachment to the check and submit both to the Office of Financial Management at the following address:



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services







The Contractor must immediately provide written notification to EMRG (with copies to the CO and the ) of all terminations or resignations of Contractor personnel working on this contract, task order or delivery order.  The Contractor must also notify EMRG (with copies to the CO and the ) when a Contractor’s employee is no longer working on this contract, task order or delivery order.  



At the conclusion of the contract, task order or delivery order and at the time when a contractor employee is no longer working on the contract, task order or delivery order due to termination or resignation, all CMS-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys must be promptly returned to EMRG.  Contractor personnel who do not return their government-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys within 48 hours of the last day of authorized access shall be permanently barred from the CMS complex and subject to fines and penalties authorized by applicable federal and State laws. 



H.6 	INDIRECT COST RATES



In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.216-7(d)(2), Allowable Cost and Payment incorporated by reference in this contract in Part II, Section I, the cognizant Contracting Officer representative responsible for negotiating provisional and/or final indirect cost rates is identified below:



		Director, Division of Financial Advisory Services

		Office of Acquisition Management and Policy

		National Institutes of Health

		6100 Building, Room 6B05

		 MSC-7540

		 20892-7540



H.7  	RESTRICTIONS ON THE USES OF INFORMATION



The access to and use of data/information under this contract shall be in accordance with FAR clause 52.224-2 Privacy Act, set forth in Section I.



H.8	APPROVAL OF CONTRACT ACQUIRED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT)



A.	The Contractor must obtain the Contracting Officer’s written approval prior to the acquisition of any IT investments (see FAR Part 2.101, for definition of IT) to ensure compatibility and successful integration with CMS’s infrastructure/architecture.



B.	In the performance of a system life cycle development project, the Contractor must submit to the Project Officer the technical specifications for each of the following incremental phase of the projected life cycle prior to the commencement of work:



Design and Engineering

Development, and

Testing



C.	Upon written approval from the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall commence work under the approved technical specification for the authorized incremental phase.



D.	In either instance of an approved IT investment acquisition, or an incremental phase of a system life cycle development project, the contract shall be modified accordingly and the Contractor shall proceed.



 may disallow any contractor incurred cost that would not be allocated to the approved IT investment acquisition.



H.9  	ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  



a.  Purpose.  The primary purpose of this clause is to aid in ensuring that the Contractor (1) does not obtain any unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of its performance of this contract, and (2) is not biased because of its current or planned interest (financial, organizational, or otherwise) which relate to the work under this contract.



b.  Scope.  The restrictions described herein shall apply to performance or participation by the Contractor and any of its affiliate organizations or their successors in interest (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Contractor") in the activities covered by this clause as a prime Contractor, subcontractor, co-sponsor, joint venturer, consultant, or in any similar capacity.



(1)  Advisory, consulting, analytical, evaluation, or study work, including the preparation of statements of work and specifications: (i) If the Contractor performs advisory, consulting, analytical, evaluation, study, or similar work under this contract, it shall be ineligible thereafter to participate in any capacity in Government contractual efforts (solicited or unsolicited) which stem directly from such work, and the Contractor agrees not to perform similar work for prospective offerors with respect to any such contractual efforts.



Furthermore, unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall not perform any such work under this contract on any of its products or services, or the products or services of another firm for which the Contractor performs similar work.  Nothing in this subparagraph shall preclude the Contractor from competing for HHS management and technical support services follow-on contracts as defined in paragraph 6. below.  

 

If the Contractor under this contract assists substantially in the preparation of a statement of work or specifications, the Contractor shall be ineligible to perform or participate in any capacity in any contractual effort which is based on such statement of work or specifications. The Contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or specifications unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, in which case the restriction in this subparagraph shall not apply.



(2)  Access to the use of information:



(a) If the Contractor in the performance of this contract obtains access to information, such as HHS plans, policies, reports, studies, financial plans, or data which has not been released to the public, the Contractor agrees not to (a) use such information for any private purpose unless the information has been released to the public; (b) disclose such information for a period of six (6) months after the completion of this contract, or the release of such information to the public, whichever is first; (c) submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government which is based on such information until one (1) year after the release of such information to the public; or (d) release such information without prior written approval by the Contracting Officer.



(b) In addition, the Contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data or other confidential technical, business or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with any restrictions imposed on such information.



(c) The Contractor shall have, subject to patent and security provisions of this contract, the right to use technical data it first produces under this contract for its private purposes provided that, as of the date of such use, all data requirements of this contract have been met.



(3)  Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph, in subcontracts of any tier which involve performance of work of the type specified in b.(1) above or access to information covered in b.(2) above.  The use of this clause in such subcontracts shall be read by substituting the word "Subcontractor" for the word "Contractor" whenever the word "Contractor" appears.



(4)  Remedies: For breach of the above restrictions or for non-disclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant interest required to be disclosed concerning this contract, the Government may, at no cost, terminate the contract, disqualify the Contractor for subsequent related contractual efforts, and pursue other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract.



(5)  Waiver.  Any request for waiver under this clause shall be directed in writing to the Contracting Officer and shall include a full description of the requested waiver and the reasons in support thereof.  If it is determined to be in the best interest of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall grant such waiver in writing.



(6)  Definitions.  The term "management and technical support services" includes any advice, assistance, analysis, consultation, evaluation, examination, report, review, study, survey, or similar assistance, including providing assistance in procurement and related activities, to support any program or their operations of CMS.



H.10 	CONFLICT OF INTEREST

 

a. It is essential that the contractor and the services provided to beneficiaries under this contract be free, to the greatest extent possible, of all conflicts of interest. The contractor shall have programs in place to identify, evaluate and mitigate all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest that preclude or would appear to preclude the contractor from rendering impartial assistance or advice.



b. Contractors must disclose all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest to the Contracting Officer during the term of the contract. The contractor’s plan to mitigate all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest identified during the term of the contract and a disclosure statement that all work to be performed under this contract is free of conflicts of interest is incorporated. The contractor is responsible for determining if an organizational conflict of interest exists in subcontractors at any tier and for ensuring that the subcontractor at any tier has mitigated any conflict actual, apparent or potential conflict of interest prior to the award, and during the term, of any subcontract for furnishing supplies or services under the prime contract.



c. For example, CMS anticipates that a contractor with the following operations may have actual, apparent or perceived conflicts of interest with the work performed under this contract: the operation or sale of managed care plans, Medigap policies, durable medical equipment, dialysis services, or any other related provider groups, products or services; sale of products or services targeted at populations covered by Medicare, e.g., retirement time-share vacations. The following paragraphs illustrate situations in which questions concerning conflicts of interest may arise. These situations are not inclusive, but are intended to help contractors identify their own organizational conflicts of interest.



1.	Contractor A operates and sells managed care plans in the state of .  Under this contract, Contractor A is required to provide names, telephone numbers and other plan information about managed care in the state of .



2.	Contractor B sells a variety of Medigap policies nationwide.  Under this contract, Contractor B is required to assist Medicare beneficiaries in determining gaps in their Medicare coverage.  Contractor B is also required to provide the names and telephone numbers of Medigap policy providers.  



3. 	Contractor C - A Durable Medical Equipment Supplier markets wheel chairs. Under this contract, Contractor C may assist beneficiaries in answering questions concerning the equipment and where they may obtain such items.



4. 	Contractor D performs telemarketing to sell vacation properties. Under this contract, Contractor D will have access to data on beneficiaries that could be used for mailing lists and phone listings that would enable Contractor D’s telemarketing division to target that population. 



d. The contractor is responsible for maintaining a program to ensure compliance with the plan identified in Paragraph H.10.b.This program must include a plan to continuously monitor its compliance with and the compliance of its subcontractors with the conflict of interest requirements, and a description of how the contractor will identify, evaluate resolve, avoid, neutralize or mitigate conflicts of interest during the term of the contract. This program is part of the plan identified in Paragraph H.10.b. and is incorporated.



The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer an updated quarterly compliance program report if and when changes occur. 



e. When disclosure is made.  The Organizational Conflicts of Interest Disclosure Statement:



1.  Is submitted with the offeror's original proposal;



2.  Must be submitted to the Contracting Officer--



(i) When the CMS Contracting Officer requests a revision to the disclosure statement, and; 



(ii) 45 days before any of the following: 

    (A) A change in the corporate structure;

 *  (B) Acquisitions of new organizations;

 *  (C) Creation of new lines of business, and;

 *  (D) A change in any of the information provided in the contractor’s previous disclosure statement.



*(The 45-day advance notice is limited to arrangements with insurance organizations, institutional and non-institutional providers of health services, organizations that have financial or functional control over or have an ownership interest in health services, or any other arrangement which may be perceived by a prudent business person to create a conflict.) 



f. The following information shall be disclosed in the Organizational Conflicts of Interest disclosure statement.  The disclosure statement is incorporated at Attachment J-2.  When submitting changes as required by H.10.e.2.(ii), only information that has changed from that contained in the incorporated version shall be submitted:



1 Corporate and organizational structure.



2 All Primary and Supplemental lines of business.



3 Financial interests in other entities, including the following:



(i) Percentage of ownership in any other entity.

(ii) Income generated from other sources.

(iii) A description of all instances of any level of involvement in any business or contractual relationship or activities that may be viewed by a prudent business person as a conflict of interest.

(iv)  A list of current or known future contracts or arrangements, regardless of size, with any--

(A) Insurance organization or subcontractor of an insurance organization;

(B) Institutional and non-institutional providers of services or other individuals or entities furnishing services for which payment may be made under the Medicare program; and

 (v) In the case of contracts or arrangements identified in

accordance with paragraph f(3)(iv) of this section, the dollar amount of the contracts or arrangements, the type of work performed, and the period of performance.

   	

4 The information required under paragraphs f(3) of this section for all of the offeror's officers, directors, and managers who would be or are involved with the performance of the contract.



5 A description of the methods the offeror will apply to mitigate any conflict of interest   identified in the disclosure statement.



Any deception or omission in the disclosure statement will be grounds for non-consideration in the procurement process, termination of the contract, or other contract action. 



g. If during the performance of this contract it is determined that a contractor has or has the potential for an unresolved organizational conflict of interest, the Government reserves the right to modify or terminate the contract. 



H.11	352.270–19 ELECTRONIC INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY.  



Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility (January 2006)



Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by Public Law 105–220 under Title IV (Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998) and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194), require that all EIT acquired must ensure that:



(1) Federal employees with disabilities have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and



(2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from an agency have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of information and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities.  This requirement includes the development, procurement, maintenance, and/or use of EIT products/services; therefore, any proposal submitted in response to this solicitation must demonstrate compliance with the established EIT Accessibility Standards. Information about Section 508 is available at  (New Window).



H.12 	CODE OF CONDUCT



SMOKING



Effective June 9, 2004, smoking is not permitted anywhere on the CMS single site campus.  This includes all areas outside the building, such as off-site facility, entranceways, sidewalks and parking areas.  Smoking will not be permitted anywhere in Regional Offices or  Office locations unless permitted by GSA guidelines or local landlord requirements.  Contractor employees are subject to the same restrictions as government personnel.  Fines up to $50 per occurrence will be issued and enforced by the Federal Protective Service.  



DRESS



The preferred dress codes at CMS facilities are professional attire, business attire or business casual attire.



H.13 	CMS INFORMATION SECURITY 



This clause applies to all organizations which possess or use Federal information, or which operate, use or have access to Federal information systems (whether automated or manual), on behalf of CMS.



The central tenet of the CMS Information Security (IS) Program is that all CMS information and information systems shall be protected from unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse, or theft—whether accidental or intentional.  The security safeguards to provide this protection shall be risk-based and business-driven with implementation achieved through a multi-layered security structure.  All information access shall be limited based on a least-privilege approach and a need-to-know basis, i.e., authorized user access is only to information necessary in the performance of required tasks.  Most of CMS' information relates to the health care provided to the nation’s Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and as such, has access restrictions as required under legislative and regulatory mandates.  

The CMS IS Program has a two-fold purpose: 

(1) To enable CMS’ business processes to function in an environment with commensurate security protections, and 

(2) To meet the security requirements of federal laws, regulations, and directives.

The principal legislation for the CMS IS Program is Public Law (P.L.) 107-347, Title III, Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), .  FISMA places responsibility and accountability for IS at all levels within federal agencies as well as those entities acting on their behalf.  FISMA directs Office of Management and Budget (OMB) through the Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), to establish the standards and guidelines for federal agencies in implementing FISMA and managing cost-effective programs to protect their information and information systems.  As a contractor acting on behalf of CMS, this legislation requires that the Contractor shall:

Establish senior management level responsibility for IS,

Define key IS roles and responsibilities within their organization,

Comply with a minimum set of controls established for protecting all Federal information, and

Act in accordance with CMS reporting rules and procedures for IS.

Additionally, the following laws, regulations and directives and any revisions or replacements of same have IS implications and are applicable to all CMS contractors.

P.L. 93-579, The Privacy Act of 1974,  , (as amended);

P.L. 99-474, Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986,    P.L. 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1978, as amended in 1995, U.S. Code 44 Chapter 35, ;

P.L. 104-208, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act), ; 

P.L. 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Kennedy-Kassenbaum Act) ;

OMB Circular No. A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, December 21, 2004, ;

OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 30, 2000, ; 

NIST standards and guidance, ; and,

Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) regulations, policies, standards and guidance 

These laws and regulations provide the structure for CMS to implement and manage a cost-effective IS program to protect its information and information systems.  Therefore, the Contractor shall monitor and adhere to all IT policies, standards, procedures, directives, templates, and guidelines that govern the CMS IS Program,  and the CMS System Lifecycle Framework, .  

The Contractor shall comply with the CMS IS Program requirements by performing, but not limited to, the following:

Implement their own IS program that adheres to CMS IS policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines, as well as industry best practices; 

Participate and fully cooperate with CMS IS audits, reviews, evaluations, tests, and assessments of contractor systems, processes, and facilities;

Provide upon request results from any other audits, reviews, evaluations, tests and/or assessments that involve CMS information or information systems;

Report and process corrective actions for all findings, regardless of the source, in accordance with CMS procedures;

Document its compliance with CMS security requirements and maintain such documentation in the systems security profile;

Prepare and submit in accordance with CMS procedures, an incident report to CMS of any suspected or confirmed incidents that may impact CMS information or information systems; and

Participate in CMS IT information conferences as directed by CMS.

If the contractor believes that an updated IS-related requirement posted to the CMS website may result in a significant cost impact, the contractor may submit a request for equitable cost adjustment before implementing change.

H.14	SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE FOR COMMUNICATIONS

The contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below.  In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and the SOW, the SOW shall take precedence.

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508 Accessibility Standards

1.      29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

2.      36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

3.       standards)

4.      FAR 39.2 (Section 508)

5.      CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

In addition, all contract deliverables are subject to these 508 standards as applicable.

Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced, including text, audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including subcontractors) or consultants responsible for preparing or posting content must comply with applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents (above/below). Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the SOW shall be the responsibility of the contractor or consultant.

The following Section 508 provisions apply to the content or communications material identified in this SOW:

36 CFR Part 1194.22 a – j, l – p

36 CFR Part 1194.41 a – c




SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES



I.1      52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:  





	DEFINITIONS (JUL 2004)



GRATUITIES (APR 1984)



All exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.

COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984)



52.203-6		RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006)



All exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.

All exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold

52.203-7 	ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (JUL 1995)



All exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshhold.

52.203-8 	CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)

	

52.203-10 	PRICE OR FEE ADJUSTMENT FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)



52.203-11 	CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEPT 2007)



52All contracts and mods exceeding $100k.

52.203-12 	LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007)



52.204-2		SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (AUG 1996)



52.204-4 	PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED ON RECYCLED PAPER (AUG 2000)



52.204-7		CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (JUL 2006)



52.207-3 	RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL OF EMPLOYMENT (MAY 2006)



52.209-6 	PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT'S INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (SEP 2006)



52.215-1  	Instructions to Offerors—Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004)



52.215-2 	AUDIT AND RECORDS-NEGOTIATION (JUN 1999)



52.215-8 	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE--UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997)



52.215-10 	PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997)



When anticipating cost or pricing data for modifications (generally, over $500K) and 52.215-10 is not included.

52.215-11 	PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR PRICING DATA –    MODIFICATIONS (OCT 1997)



52.215-12 	SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997)



52.215-13 	SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA – MODIFICATIONS (OCT 1997)



52.215-15 	PENSION ADJUSTMENTS AND ASSET REVERSIONS (OCT 2004)	



52.215-17 	WAIVER OF FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (OCT 1997)



52.215-18 	REVERSION OR ADJUSTMENT OF PLANS FOR POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS (PRB) OTHER THAN PENSIONS (OCT 1997)



52.215-20	REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997)



52.215-21 	REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA—MODIFICATIONS (OCT 1997)



ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002)



FIXED FEE.  (MAY 2004)



52.216-22	Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995) 



OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)



52.217-9	OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERMS OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) 



52.219-14	LIMITATIONS OF SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)



52.219-18	Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8(a) Concerns (June 2003)



NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES (FEB 1997)



PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS (JULY 1990)



All acquisitions where performance is in the U.S, unless using Federal Prison Industries, or if contract subject to Walsh-Healey.

52.222-3 	CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)



52.222-4 	CONTRACT WORK HOURS AND SAFETY STANDARDS ACT  OVERTIME COMPENSATION.  (JUL 2005)



52.222-21 	PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)



52.222-26 	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007) 



52.222-35 	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR SPECIAL DISABLED VETERANS, VETERANS OF  EAR, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE VETERANS (DEC 2001)



All.

52.222-36 	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (JUN 1998)



All > $10k.

52.222-37 	EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON DISABLED VETERANS AND VETERANS OF THE  ERA (SEP 2006)



52.222-41 	SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965 (NOV 2007)



52.223-6 	DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)



52.223-14	TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)



52.224-1	PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)



52.224-2	PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)



52.225-13 	RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (FEB 2006)



52.227-1	AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT (DEC 2007)



52.227-2	NOTICE AND ASSISTANCE REGARDING PATENT AND COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT. (DEC 2007) 



52.227-3	PATENT INDEMNITY (APR 1984)



52.228-7	INSURANCE – LIABILITY TO THIRD PERSON (MAY 1996)



52.227-14	RIGHTS IN DATA-GENERAL (DEC 2007)



52.227-17	RIGHTS IN DATA – SPECIAL WORK (DEC 2007)



52.227-23 	RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA (TECHNICAL) (JUN 1987)



52.229-3	FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 2003)



52.230-2	COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. (APR 1998)



52.230-3	DISCLOSURE AND CONSISTANCY OF COST ACCOUNTING (APR 1998)



52.230-6	ADMINISTRATION OF COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. (APR 2005)



52.232-9 	LIMITATION ON WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS (APR 1984)



52.232-17 	INTEREST (JUN 1996)



When the contract will be chargeable to funds of the new fiscal year and the contracting action is to be initiated prior to the funds' availability.

Fully-funded cost-reimbursement contracts (includes CPFF IDIQ).

52.232-23 	ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986)



52.232-25 	PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2003)



52.232-33	PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER – CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)



52.233-1 	DISPUTES (JUL 2002) - ALTERNATE I (DEC 1991)



PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 96) - ALTERNATE I (JUN 1985)



APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)



52.237-3	CONTINUITY OF SERVICE (JAN 1991)



52.239-1	PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)



52.242-1	NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS.  (APR 1984)



When production progress reports required.  You must specify the appropriate reporting procedures.

52.242-2 	PRODUCTION PROGRESS REPORTS (APR 2001)



All >$500k except (1) FFP without cost incentives or (2) any FFP for CI.

52.242-3 	PENALTIES FOR UNALLOWABLE COSTS (MAY 2001)



52.242-4 	CERTIFICATION OF FINAL INDIRECT COSTS (JAN 1997)



52.242-13 	BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)



52.243-2 	CHANGES - COST-REIMBURSEMENT (AUG 1987) - ALTERNATE I     

APR 1984



52.243-7	NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES (APR 1984)



SUBCONTRACTS (JUN 2007)



52.244-5        	COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)



52.244-6 	SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS.  (MAR 2007)  



Solicitations and contracts for services and supplies other than commercial items.

When the Contracting Office maintains the administration of the government's official property records and government property is furnished to a Contractor for: repair; use on a government installation; a contract with a value less than $50K; or when otherwise determined to be in the government's best interests.

52.245-1 	GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (JUNE 2007)



52.246-25 	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY – SERVICES (FEB 1997)



52.251-1	GOVERNMENT SUPPLY SOURCES (APR 1984)



52.249-6 	TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT) (MAY 2004)



52.249-14 	EXCUSABLE DELAYS (APR 1984)



52.252-4		ALTERATIONS IN CONTRACT. (APR 1984)



52.253-1 	COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)





I.2	52.215-19 NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES. (OCT 1997) 

 

(a) The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing:



(1) When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) within 30 days.



(2) The Contractor shall also notify the ACO within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership.



(b) The Contractor shall - 



(1) Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs;



(2) Provide the ACO or designated representative ready access to the records upon request;



(3) Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor's ownership changes; and



(4) Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change.



(c) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).





I.3	52.252-6  AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)



(a)	The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the date of the clause. 



(b)	 The use in this solicitation or contract of any _____. [insert regulation name] (48 CFR _____) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the name of the regulation. 





I.4	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE – UNIFORM CONTRACT 



Any inconsistency in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 



(a) The Schedule (excluding the specifications). 

(b) Representations and other instructions. 

(c) Contract clauses. 

(d) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(e) The specifications. 





I.5       352.252-20 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION  

             REGULATIONS (HHSAR) INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



DEFINITIONS (APR 1984) ALTERNATE I

352.216-72	ADDITIONAL COST PRINCIPLES. (OCT 1990)

INSURANCE – LIABILITY TO THIRD PERSONS (DEC 1991)

LITIGATION AND CLAIMS (APR 1984)

FINAL DECISION ON AUDIT FINDINGS (APR 1984)

352.249-14    	EXCUSABLE DELAYS (JANUARY 2006)

352.270-1	ACCESSIBILITY OF MEETINGS, CONFERENCES, AND SEMINARS TO PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES. (JAN 2001)

352.270-4 	PRICING OF ADJUSTMENTS (JAN. 2001)

352.270-6	PUBLICATIONS AND PUBLICITY (JUL 1991)

352.270-7 	PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (JAN 2001)

352.270–10 	ANTI-LOBBYING (JANUARY 2006) 





I.6    352.224-70 CONFINDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION (JAN 2006) 



 (a) Confidential information, as used in this clause, means information or data of a personal nature about an individual, or proprietary information or data submitted by or pertaining to an institution or organization. 

(b) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information and/or categories of information which the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which is confidential. Similarly, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract. Failure to agree will be settled pursuant to the ‘‘Disputes’’ clause. 

(c) If it is established elsewhere in this contract that information to be utilized under this contract, or a portion thereof, is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, , and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act. 

(d) Confidential information, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, shall not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the individual, institution, or organization.
(e) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling of material under the contract, or if the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act or is confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor should obtain a written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication. 

(f) Contracting Officer determinations will reflect the result of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

(g) The provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall not apply to conflicting or overlapping provisions in other Federal, State, or local laws.

                                                          


SECTION J  LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



J.1	Statement of Work (SOW)





J.2	Accounting Certification



NOTE:  This information should correspond to the information in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR.) Database







SIGNATURE







_____________________________________________________________________

For CONTRACTOR							Date

(Title)






SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS



K.1	52.204-8   Annual Representations and Certifications. (JAN 2006)



(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541512.



(2) The small business size standard is $25,000,000.



(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.



(b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (c) of this provision applies.



(2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation,  and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (c) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:



[ ] (i) Paragraph (c) applies.



[ ] (ii) Paragraph (c) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation.



(c) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the  business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

-----------------------------------------------------

FAR Clause      Title           Date           Change

-----------------------------------------------------

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.



K.2 	352.204 Certification of Filing and Payment of Federal Taxes (March 2008)

 

(a) The offeror certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:



1)  It has filed all Federal tax returns required during the three years preceding this certification;



2) It has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and



3)  It has not been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding.



(b) The signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the offeror under this provision.



SECTION L – INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS



L.1	Special Instructions



Technical Questions



All technical questions concerning this Request for Proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Contract Specialist, Charles Littleton, by Noon, June 24, 2010.  Questions must be sent via e-mail to .  All questions will be answered in writing and posted to the Federal procurement website Federal Business Opportunities, .  Offerors will not be notified individually.  All offerors are responsible for checking the website for additional information and amendments that may be issued to the solicitation.



Notice of Intent to Submit Proposals



All organizations that intend to submit a proposal in response to this solicitation are requested to advise the Contract Specialist, Charles Littleton, via e-mail by Noon, June 24, 2010. ().  



Availability of Funds



Funds are not presently available for the minimum stated in Subsection B-2(B).  



No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer, and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.



Number of Proposals in the Competitive Range for the TOCs



The Government considers that efficient competition can be maintained if the number of proposals in the competitive range for the TOC does not exceed six (6).  Therefore, pursuant to FAR Clause 52.215-1 (JAN 2004), Alternate I (OCT 1997), and FAR Subpart 15.306(c)(2); the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.



Privacy Act



If a Privacy Act Systems Notice is required for a task order, the request for task order proposal (RTOP) will so specify.



CMS Information Technology (IT) Resources 



Offerors shall assume that the CMS Data Center is available for use during the duration of this TOC.  



L-2 	General Instructions



The following establishes the acceptable minimum requirements for the submission of offerors’ proposals:



You are instructed to submit a Proposal in response to the Statement of Work. Your proposal must be prepared and marked as two main volumes, a Technical Proposal and Business Proposal, with subparts as follows:    



Volume I – Technical Proposal

Volume II – Business Proposal



Each of the subparts shall be separate and complete in itself so the evaluation of one may be accomplished independent of the evaluation of another.  All proposal must have no less than a 1 inch margin around the entire circumference of the page and use a font size no smaller than Times New Roman 12 point.



Your technical proposal must not contain reference to cost; however, resource information such as data concerning labor hours and categories, subcontracts etc. must be contained in the technical proposal so that your understanding of the scope of the work may be evaluated.  It must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation that includes, but is not limited to, the requirements of the technical proposal instructions.  The technical proposal is limited to 25 pages for all sections listed in Subsection L-4.I  below except for resumes and Curriculum Vitaes (CVs).      



The Offerors technical proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization and delivered to the following address no later than 3:00 PM, Local Prevailing Time, on :  



	Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)

	Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

	Division of Research Contracts and Grants

	Attn: Charles Littleton, RFP Number:  CMS-2010-8A-0014

	Room C2-21-15

	7500 Security Boulevard

	Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850



The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M of this request for proposal.



It is understood that successful proposals will become part of the official file.



This request for proposal does not commit the Government to pay any costs associated with the preparation and submission of a proposal.  Additionally, the Contracting Officer is the only person who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed acquisition.



L.3	Section 508, Accessibility of Electronic & Information Technology (EIT) Compliance



Offerors are advised that any resultant task order awarded under TOC may be subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220). Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures EIT, the EIT must allow federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities.  Offers are advised to review the Section 508 solicitation provisions at Section H-6.  Section 508 requirements do not apply to the TOC, only to task orders that may be awarded under a TOC.



L.4	Technical Proposal Instructions



The offeror must respond to all aspects of the scope of work that are relevant to the specific services the offeror wishes to undertake.  To facilitate proposal review and evaluation, the offeror shall submit as part of the proposal, a separate enclosure entitled “Technical Proposal” which encompasses Chapters 1 - 5, as specified below.  The offeror must also submit a separate enclosure entitled “Business Proposal”.



In order to establish uniformity among proposal submissions, the following format shown below must be followed for the technical proposal:



Chapter 1:	Summary of Proposal

Chapter 2:	Technical Approach

Chapter 3:	Personnel Qualifications

Chapter 4:	Management Plan

Chapter 5:	Past Performance



These five chapters combined are not to total more than 75 single-spaced (one-sided) pages.  Type font may be no smaller than Times Roman 12 and all page margins must be at least one inch.  Chapter 1, Summary of Proposal, shall not exceed two pages. Pages may be allocated across chapters in any way you see fit.  Detailed vitae and project summaries may be included in a separate attachment, with no length restrictions.  Additional explanatory material may be included as appendices, but they must be bound separately and must be carefully cross-referenced.



Chapter 1:  Summary of Proposal



The proposal shall summarize the major points in the offeror's technical proposal.



Chapter 2- Technical Approach



The Research, Demonstration, and Information System (RDIS) Development Statement of Work (SOW) specifies the overall scope and provides the requirements to ensure the contractor(s) provide the necessary information technology services to develop secure and integrated Internet-based software and database systems to support research, demonstration, and information activities. All contractors participating in this IDIQ shall be required to meet the requirements and constraints outlined in the Technical Instruction (Section 2) of the SOW. 



The specific RDIS SOW service requirements are detailed within the Services Scope (Section 4) of the SOW. This section breaks the work out into discrete major activities that support the various types of work that need to be performed to support various research, demonstration, and information projects.  



Table  Technical Proposal Matrix



The offeror shall make a clear and concise presentation of the technical approach chosen for this contract and associated services.  This must be complete and cover all aspects of the statement of work.  This approach should also demonstrate an understanding of all aspects of the requirement.  The offeror should provide sufficient detail in the proposal to indicate a technical understanding of, and capability for, performing all aspects of the SOW.  Although a more detailed analytic plan for each component of the RDIS will be developed subsequent to contract award, the offeror should nevertheless provide sufficient detail in the proposal to indicate technical understanding of and capability of performing the requirements of the statement of work.  Proposals that merely restate the requirements in the statement of work without providing substantive descriptions of the planned research, especially the data collection activities and analysis, will be considered technically unacceptable.  The proposal shall provide a statement of the problem in the offeror’s own words.  



All offerors shall demonstrate corporate experience with and an understanding of the SOW Technical Instructions.  Offerors that are addressing specific major services shall demonstrate corporate experience with and an understanding of the Service Scope for that specific service. The offerors shall demonstrate corporate experience with and an understanding of the service scopes as they relate to the following:



The complexity of the initiative, and the inherent difficulties likely to be encountered in managing the project;

A discussion of potential problems that could arise during performance of this contract and to provide a contingency plan;

Knowledge of IT industry project and risk management best practices;

RDIS component applications and databases, their associated architecture, and how they will be designed and maintained;

Knowledge of creating and executing a Test Plan;

Knowledge of CMS databases, their associated architecture, and proposed alignment with the RDIS components;

Knowledge of CMS System Life Cycle Framework and CMS IT standards;

Knowledge of CMS Information Security (IS) Program;

Knowledge of CMS Internet enabled systems, the CMS “3-Zone” architecture, and how applicable it is to the various RDIS components;

Knowledge of how to construct and utilize IT enterprise services that interface to CMS enterprise applications and systems;

Knowledge of CMS Business Intelligence architecture and proposed alignment with the RDIS components;

Knowledge of requirements development best practices;

Knowledge of business intelligence/reporting development services;

Knowledge of web architecture that will use the latest technological framework to build expressive web applications within CMS’s development environment;

Knowledge of CMS’s rules and policies regarding web development structure and standards including 508 compliance;

Knowledge of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) at CMS and how they would be aligned in the RDIS projects; 

Knowledge of multiplatform systems at CMS and how RDIS projects can best be developed to be flexible and transportable across hardware, operating systems and Enterprise Data Centers (EDCs); and

Knowledge of how to construct data exchanges, transformations and warehousing for the RDIS projects, including incorporating the use of COBOL copybooks, SAS exports, XML messages and delimited flat files.



Chapter 2- Personnel Qualifications



This section must describe the educational background, professional experience, and special qualifications that directly relate to the service to be provided of all professional personnel to be involved in the service.  When consultants or subcontractors are to be used, their special qualifications, educational background, and experience must be included as well.  The proposal shall specify how the personnel employed under this contract will be integrated organizationally and what their responsibilities and percentage of time under the contract will be.  



For key personnel (SOW Section 8.2) , including subcontractor staff and consultants, the offeror shall:  



Describe functions and duties with respect to the contract;

Describe relevant training, and experience;

Specify percent of time in person-years to be allocated to this project; 

Specify anticipated degree of availability for the service order period, i.e., any other work that might constrain the availability and at what times; and

Provide current resume indicating all relevant specific experience and education.  



The proposal should indicate relevant experience and knowledge of key personnel.  Specific experience and capabilities, which must be addressed in the proposal, should reflect the ability to meet the requirements specified in the “Technical Approach”.





Chapter 4:  Management Plan



The proposal shall describe how the project will be organized and managed, how tasks will be sequenced and in what time-frames, and what management control and coordination mechanisms will be utilized to assure the timely and successful conduct of this project.   The management plan shall particularly address the procedures to be employed in handling a number of different services that are proceeding simultaneously.  The proposed management plan should specify resource allocation and milestone measures in a work breakdown structure by services and services sub-tasks.  This should include a matrix of hours committed to the project by person by service task.  The management plan should indicate if any of the services of the contract will be subcontracted and how any subcontractor work will be monitored and also address change control and how that will be managed among the stakeholders.  The proposal should demonstrate a well-developed approach for ensuring successful completion of this project and coordination among the various players.



Chapter 4 should include the following information: 



A summary project plan portraying the proposed service subtasks and their inter-relationship as well as their relationship to the accomplishment of the required deliverable items in a work breakdown structure;



A GANTT or similar type chart of the project milestones and planned completion dates;



A summary of proposed staff and consultant person hour usage by service task;



A Quality Assurance Plan 



Additionally, the offeror should indicate corporate capacity to effectively conduct this project.  The proposal must show availability of an access to sufficient resources and facilities, such as staff, consultants, and computer equipment.



If the contractor is either bidding or anticipates bidding on multiple service task orders across numerous projects, the contractor must include a detailed discussion on how the contractor shall account for and effectively deploy key and non key personnel. This is to ensure appropriate coverage across the entire project mix spectrum. For example, if the contractor desires to provide both “Project and System Management Services” and “IT Security Services” for a number of RDIS projects including the Electronic Health Record System (EHRDS); Decision Support, Performance Metrics, and Program Statistics (DSPMPS) System; and Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) Medical Home Demonstration System (FQHCDS), the contractor must indicate whether key and non key staff hours shall be stratified or dedicated across the multiple projects. Teaming strategies, leveraging key technological resources when required, recruitment of additional resources when needed, and other strategic staffing approaches should be included. 



Chapter 5:  Past Performance



The offeror should include summaries of recent contracts, subcontracts and task or purchase orders with CMS, other Department of Health and Human Services agencies, other U.S. Government organizations and/or commercial firms for the same or similar services required by this solicitation.  The list of directly related projects should cover at least the last 6 months but not more than the most recent 3 years and should include for each listing:



Project title and contract number (for subcontracts, provide the prime contract number and the subcontract number);

Funding amount and period of performance;

Project description stressing the relationship to the work required by this solicitation;

Key project staff; 

Sponsoring agency and its technical representative/project officer;

Contract type;

Program Manager's (Principal Investigator) name and telephone number; and 

Standard Industrial Code.



We will contact these individuals concerning:



The nature and duration of the work and the conditions of performance;

The quality of services rendered, in terms of compliance with adequate specifications and statements of work;

The timeliness of performance, taking into account all excusable delays;

The cost or price of performance, in terms of initial reasonableness and control of exigencies;

The offeror's reasonable compliance with other contract terms and conditions;

The effectiveness of the offerors management of the administrative aspects of performance, such as communicating and performing routine clerical tasks;

The offeror's willingness to cooperate with, and assist, the customer in routine matters and when confronted by unexpected difficulties; and

The offeror's business integrity.

The effectiveness of the offeror to control the cost of performance.

Any requests given to the offeror to re-perform the service because it had been performed unsatisfactorily the first time.

The offeror’s overall performance and if it was generally satisfactory.

A determination of whether this individual would hire the offeror again. 

A determination of whether this individual would recommend the offeror to others.      



Offerors will be evaluated on their performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services.  The government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the size and complexity of the acquisition under consideration.  The government is not required to contact all references provided by the offeror.  Also, references other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the government to obtain additional information that will be used in the evaluation of the offerors past performance. 



L.5	Business Proposal Instructions



Volume II



The Business Proposal shall be a separate submission from the Technical Proposal.  The offeror must submit a Business Proposal adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness.  The offerors must submit a Business Proposal adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness for several sets of service orders detailed in the SOW for the IDIQ Contract. This portfolio of projected future project sets of service orders are to be fully proposed and priced by contractors, as these services will be part of the overall evaluation of the RFPs.  The contractor also has the option to provide proposals to support the remaining services detailed in the SOW.  Although the future projects are pending availability of funds, the contractor is highly recommended to provide proposals for these tasks. The proposals should include the following:



Cost broken down by tasks, and

Budgets itemized by base task order period, optional tasks or phases, or optional periods to include:

Labor categories and direct labor rates

Indirect cost rates (fringe, G&A, etc.)

Subcontractor/ consultant cost factors/ rates

Other direct costs

Fee, if applicable



Specific Instructions: Sample Task Orders



Business Proposal Requirement 1  



All offerors must submit a Business Proposal functional activity 4.7 adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness to support the EHRDS IT Operations & Maintenance Services task (section 5.1.1). 



Business Proposal Requirement 2



All offerors must submit a Business Proposal adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness to support the North Dakota Statewide Quality Improvement Network (SQIN) Demonstration System (SQINDS) Services (Section 5.3). Offerors must provide a proposal to support all SQINDS services detailed in Table 2 below. 



Table  Business Proposal Matrix 



Business Proposal Requirement 3



The offeror must submit a Business Proposal adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness to support Decision Support, Performance Metrics, and Program Statistics (DSPMPS) Services (Section 5.8). Offerors must provide a proposal to support all DSPMPS services detailed in Table 3 below. 



Table 3 Business Proposal Matrix 



Business Proposal Requirement 4



The offeror must submit a Business Proposal adequate for the Government to allow for a complete cost/price analysis, and for a determination of cost reasonableness to support Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMI) Web Intake System (CMIWIS) Services (Section 5.9). Offerors must provide a proposal to support all CMIWIS services detailed in Table 4 below.



Table 4 Business Proposal Matrix 



The business proposal shall contain the following information:



Administrative Business Data

Proposal Details

	Section K, Representations and Certifications (copy from website)



Administrative Business Data



Financial Capability – The offeror must indicate whether it has adequate financial capability, working capital, and other resources necessary to compete and perform task orders without assistance from any outside source.

Financial Statement – Provide a copy of the audited financial statements for the most current completed fiscal year.  

Disclosure Statement – Offerors shall provide a Disclosure Statement in accordance with FAR Subpart 30.202, if applicable.

Approved Accounting and Estimating Systems – Offerors shall certify that they have approved accounting and estimating systems that are in compliance with applicable contract cost principles and procedures of FAR Part 31 as well as FAR Appendix A, Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) in order to be considered for award of cost type contracts/task orders.  Offerors shall state if their practices used in estimating cost are consistent with their cost accounting practices used to accumulate, segregate, and report costs.



B.	Additional Cost and Pricing Data Considerations



Labor Rates – Offerors shall provide labor rates for the labor categories that are expected to be used in the performance of proposed task orders under the First Task Order.  Such labor rates shall be projected out for five (5) years.  If the labor rates are escalated, the rationale for the proposed escalation rate should be included in the submission.  The proposed labor rates should be supported with payroll information, letters of intent or salary survey information.  The appropriate fringe benefits, overhead and G&A should be applied to the labor category.



The labor categories are being requested so that the Government can evaluated offerors ability to submit supportive cost proposals for cost reasonable analysis.  The labor categories and the proposed rates will not appear in the TOC or awarded task orders (except by coincidence).  Offerors will be required to propose the appropriate labor categories and rates for each separate task order.  Please note that the labor categories may vary from one offer to another; however, the duties and experience should be similar.



Indirect Rates – 



An offeror with a current Government-approved indirect rate agreement 

should provide a copy of the forward pricing rate agreement with the proposal.  



An offeror without a current forward pricing rate agreement needs to provide the following:



The last two years of actual indirect rates with a rate schedule showing both the pool (by cost centers) and base of allocation for each indirect rate.

Provide budgeted out year indirect rates with sufficient detail to support the basis of estimate for each cost center in the overhead pool.  The indirect bases should be in line with anticipated future work.



3.    Independent Research & Development (IR&D) – In accordance with the Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulations (HHSAR) 352.216-72, the cost of independent research and development, including its proportionate share of indirect costs are unallowable.  Any Independent Research & Development (IR&D) is required to be excluded from indirect rate calculations.



Facilities Capital Cost of Money – Pursuant to HHSAR 315.404-4, when facilities capital cost of money (cost of capital committed to facilities) is included as an item of cost, a reduction in the profit objective shall be made in an amount equal to the amount of facilities capital cost of money allowed in accordance with the Facilities Capital Cost-of Money Cost Principle.  This effectively makes the inclusion of cost of money in a proposal as an element of cost irrelevant.



Purchasing System–  Offerors shall state whether they have an approved purchasing system that is in compliance with FAR Part 44.     



Uncompensated Overtime – The offeror is required to include a copy of the policy on “uncompensated overtime” with its proposal (FAR 52.237-10).  Uncompensated overtime is defined as “hours worked without additional compensation in excess of an average of 40 hours per week by direct charge employees who are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act.” 



L.6	Treatment of Data in Proposals (FOIA)



The proposal(s) submitted in response to this request may contain data (trade secrets, business data, e.g., commercial information, financial information, and cost and pricing data; and technical data) which the offeror, including the prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the proposal.  The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted, provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  In U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the following legend, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted in accordance with the conditions of the legend. 



"Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information (FOI) Officials of the Department of Health and Human Services, data contained in the portions of this proposal which have been specifically identified by page number, paragraph, etc. by the offeror as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for evaluation purposes.”



The Government’s determination to withhold or disclose a record will be based upon the particular circumstances involving the record in question and whether the record may be exempted from disclosure under the FOIA. 



The offeror acknowledges that the Department may not be able to withhold a record (data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record requested pursuant to the Act and that the Department's FOI Officials must make that determination.  The offeror hereby agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure if the Department has determined that disclosure is required by the Act.



If a TOC is awarded to the offeror as a result of, or in connection with, the submission of this request for proposal, the Government shall have the right to use or disclose the data to the extent provided in the TOC.  Proposals not resulting in a TOC remain subject to the Act.



The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose, including the release of the information pursuant to requests under the Act.



Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive legends or statements differing in substance from the above legend may not be considered for award.  The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with a nonconforming legend.





L.7	Treatment of Proprietary Information in Proposals 



Disclosure, protection, and marking of Contactor proposal information and source selection information; and disqualification (See FAR Subparts 3.104-4 and 3.104-5).





L.8	52.233-2 Service of Protest (Aug 1996)



(a) 	Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:



	Contracting Officer 

	Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

	OAGM/AGG/DRCG

	Mailstop: C2-25-15

	7500 Security Blvd.

	Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850



(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 



L.9	52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at  



52.215-1		Instructions to Offerors—Competitive Acquisition. (Jan 2004), Alternate I (Jan 2004)

52.222-24 	Pre-award On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Review. (Feb 1999)

52.207-2		Notice of Cost Comparison (Negotiated). (May 2006) 

52.215-16	Facilities Capital Cost of Money.  (Jun 2003) 

52.215-20	Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data. (Oct 1997) 

52.216-27	Single or Multiple Awards. (Oct 1995) 

52.222-46	Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees.  (Feb 1993) 

52.232-38	Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer. (May 1999) 

52.252-3		Alterations in Solicitation. (Apr 1984) 


SECTION M – EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



M.1 	General Evaluation Process and Source Selection Approach



The proposal evaluation process under this solicitation will initially consist of an evaluation of offerors’ technical proposals to assess their relative merits.    

Secondly, the offeror’s business proposal will be analyzed for a determination of cost reasonableness and cost realism.

The Government’s intent under this solicitation is to make a multiple- award, IDIQ task order contract that represent the best value to the Government.  

The “Tradeoff Process” (see FAR Subpart 15.101-1) shall be utilized so that the Government may consider award to other than the lowest cost offeror(s) or to other than the highest technically rated offeror(s).  

All evaluation factors other than cost, when combined are considered to be significantly more important than cost. 

The Government considers that efficient competition can be maintained if the number of proposals in the competitive range for the TOC does not exceed six (6).  Therefore, pursuant to FAR Clause 52.215-1 (JAN 2004), Alternate I (OCT 1997), and FAR Subpart 15.306(c)(2); the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.



M.2	Evaluation Methodology



The proposal evaluation and source selection process under this solicitation will consist of the following:  



Evaluation of offerors’ technical proposal (Volume I), to assess their relative technical merits, shall be based on the evaluation factors stated in Section M.3.



Evaluation of the offeror’s business proposal (Volume II) shall be in accordance with Section M.4.



In accordance with FAR Subpart 15.304(c)(1) and FAR Subpart 15.404-1 cost to the Government shall be addressed in every award selection to determine overall cost reasonableness and of individual cost factors.



It is the intent of the Government to negotiate with those offerors in the competitive range.  Upon completion of negotiations, offerors shall be permitted to submit final proposals.  



M.3	Technical Evaluation Factors 



Upon receipt of the proposals, the Office of Acquisition and Grants, CMS may request further supporting documentation or, in some instances, a meeting with key operating staff to clarify the specifics proposed.  Proposals which do not comply with the minimum requirements outlined in the task order request will not be considered further. Award of this IDIQ and future Task Orders will be based upon a determination of “Best Value” and may include “Tradeoffs” among cost and non-cost evaluation factors, which are considered more important than cost factors.  The following criteria and weights will be used in the technical evaluation of proposals, which comply with the minimum requirements:



A.	Statement of the Problem and Technical Approach (40 Points)



The proposal should reflect substantive understanding of the implications of the Statement of Work and reflect a good understanding of the scope, complexity, and requirements associated with the task order.



The offeror is to present in a clear, concise and sound manner the work to be carried out in the Statement of Work.  The proposal should be responsive to the task order in all respects and reflect the ability to comply with all requirements stipulated in the Statement of Work and Technical Proposal Instructions.



B.	Qualifications and Availability of Personnel (30 points)



The proposal will be reviewed with respect to relevant background and experience of key staff, including the project director, staff, subcontractor, and consultants.



C.	Management Plan and Facilities (10 Points)



Project organization is to be reviewed in terms of the specificity and nature of the responsibility and authorities of key personnel.  The management plan is to be comprehensive, specific, and feasible. 



D.	Past Performance (20 Points)



The proposal will be reviewed with respect to the offeror's experience and actual performance on work similar to that required under this task order.  There must be sufficient information to permit CMS to make the necessary reference checks.





TOTAL POINTS = 100



Cost to the Government is a non-scored factor, but it is always a consideration in a “Best Value” award determination.



M.4	Other Factors

The following factors, other than technical and cost, will be considered in the Best Value award determination.  These factors will not be point-scored, but will be considered to supplement the decision of the relative merits of the offeror’s proposal.  These other factors are essentially related to the offeror’s decision to utilize subcontractors and would include:

The technical rationale for selections, and a description of the proposed subcontracted tasks.

The subcontractor’s technical and management approach in accomplishing the proposed subcontracted tasks, 

Quality of subcontractor’s performance under similar requirements

Status of the subcontractor’s: 

a. Financial Capability

b. Approved Disclosure Statement

c. Verified adequate accounting and estimating systems, and 

d. Approved purchasing system

Estimating practices consistent with cost accounting practices used to accumulate, segregate, and report costs.









CONTRACTOR NAME:

(As registered with IRS)



CONTRACTOR ADDRESS:



CONTRACTOR POC / TELEPHONE NUMBER(S):  



DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System) #



TIN (Taxpayer Identification Number)





CAGE CODE #:





Section

Major Functional Activity



2

Technical Instruction



4

Services Scope



4.1

RDIS IT Project and System Management Services





RDIS IT Requirements Development Services





RDIS IT Development Services





RDIS Database Development Services





RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services





RDIS IT Security Services





RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services





RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services





Section

Major Functional Activity

Required/Optional Business Proposal

4.1

RDIS IT Project and System Management Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Project and System Management Services



RDIS IT Requirements Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Requirements Development Services



RDIS IT Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Development Services



RDIS Database Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Database Development Services



RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services



RDIS IT Security Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Security Services



RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services



RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services



Section

Major Functional Activity

Required/Optional Business Proposal

4.1

RDIS IT Project and System Management Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Project and System Management Services



RDIS IT Requirements Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Requirements Development Services



RDIS IT Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Development Services



RDIS Database Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Database Development Services



RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services



RDIS IT Security Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Security Services



RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Operations & Maintenance Services



RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Transition Planning & Execution Services



Section

Major Functional Activity

Required/Optional Business Proposal



RDIS IT Requirements Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Requirements Development Services



RDIS IT Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS IT Development Services



RDIS Database Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Database Development Services



RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development Services

Required for offerors that desire to perform RDIS Business Intelligence/Reporting Development ServicesSOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

RATING

PAGE OF PAGES

1
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED

53

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

RFP-CMS-2010-8A-0014
7. ISSUED BY CODE

SEALED BID (IFB) X NEGOTIATED (RFP)

06/18/2010

DRCG

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

CMS,OAGM,AGG,DRCG 7500 SECURITY BLVD., MS: C2-21-15 BALTIMORE MD 21244-1850

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and depository located in

5

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the until

1400 ES
(Hour)

local time

07/16/2010
(Date)

CAUTION: LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.
10. FOR INFORMATION CALL:

A. NAME AREA CODE

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) NUMBER EXT.

C. E-MAIL ADDRESS

Charles Littleton
DESCRIPTION

410
PAGE(S) (X)

786-3291
SEC. DESCRIPTION

Charles.Littleton@cms.hhs .gov
PAGE(S)

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
(X) SEC.

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 5 6 7 8 9 10 21

X X

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

34 40 41 42 52

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X X X

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

L M

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within ______________ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232.8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR CODE FACILITY 16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print) AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) CALENDAR DAYS (%)

15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20. AMOUNT

21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) ) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c) ( CODE )

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

WILLIAM TATE
(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable
STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

