
                                                  United States Department of Homeland Security
                                                        Science and Technology Directorate

                                                                      [pic]

                                                        Plum Island Animal Disease Center

                                                                      [pic]


                                                        Operation and Maintenance Services
                                                                Statement of Work
                                                                Table of Contents:


   1. Introduction

   2. Background
        1. Overview
        2. Description of Facilities and Services
        3. Key Management Considerations

3.0   Management Program Requirements
      3.1   Program Project Plan
           3.1.1   Contract Work Breakdown Structure (CWBS)
              2. Performance Management System
           3.1.3 Integrated Baseline Review (IBR)
           3.1.4       Integrated Program Management (IPM) Reporting
           3.1.5       Application to Subcontractors
           3.1.6       Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)
           3.1.7 Over Target Baseline(OTB)/Restructure
      3.2   Staffing Plan
      3.3   Program Management Reviews (PMRs)
   4. Self-assessment Report
      3.5   Document/Procedure Management
      3.6   Records Management
      3.7   Meetings
      3.8   Key Personnel
      3.9   Required and Preferred Management Team Qualifications
      3.10  Supervisory Presence
      3.11  Corporate Assurance
      3.12  Training and Qualifications
      3.13  Drug and Alcohol Testing
      3.14  Transition
           3.14.1      Phase-In Transition
           3.14.2      Phase-Out Transition
      3.15  Work Planning and Control
      3.16  Quality Management
      3.17  Business Management
           3.17.1      Financial Management / Controls and Reporting
           3.17.2      Procurement System
           3.17.3      Environmentally Preferable (“green”) Purchasing
           3.17.4      Contract Property / Government Furnished Property
                 3.17.4.1   Control and Accountability of Contract Property
                 3.17.4.2   Contractor Responsibilities
                 3.17.4.3   Property Control System
                 3.17.4.4   Government-owned IT and Telecommunication Assets
      3.18  Safety, Health, and Environmental Management
      3.19  Emergency/Incident Preparedness and Response
      3.20  Communications with DHS, Regulators and other Authorities, and Media
      3.21  Cooperation during Audits
      3.22  Procedural Compliance

4.0   Technical Requirements
      4.1   Biological Safety/Biological Containment Management and Services
           4.1.1 Animal Room Maintenance
      4.2   Water Plant
      4.3   Liquid Effluent Decontamination Plant
      4.4   Waste Water Treatment Plant
      4.5   Salt Water Pump Station and Waste Water Heat Exchangers
      4.6   Boiler Plant
      4.7   Chiller Plant
      4.8   Heating, Cooling and Ventilation
      4.9   Refrigeration
      4.10  Electrical Distribution and Power Generation Services
      4.11  Fuel and Oil Management
            4.11.1     Petroleum Delivery, Transfer, and Facility Maintenance
                  4.11.1.1   On Plum Island
                  4.11.1.2   At Orient Point
      4.12  Waste Management
            4.12.1     Hazardous and Universal Waste Management
            4.12.2     Solid (Municipal) Waste Management
            4.12.3     Regulated Medical Waste Management
            4.12.4     Energy Conservation
            4.12.5     Air Pollution Control
            4.12.6     Sanitary Waste Water
            4.12.7     Pesticide Applicator License
      4.13  Crematories
      4.14  Ancillary Systems and Components
      4.15  Information Technology
            4.15.1     IT Data Systems
            4.15.2     Facilities Security System
            4.15.3     Building Management System
      4.16  Radio Systems
            4.16.1     VHF Radio
            4.16.2     Low Band Paging/Voice Radio
            4.16.3     Man-Down Radio System
      4.17  Telecommunications Systems/Services and Communications Infrastructure
            4.17.1     Communications Infrastructure Support
      4.18  Fire Alarm System
      4.19  Fire Suppression System
      4.20  Instrumentation and Control
      4.21  Fire, Rescue and Emergency Medical Services
      4.22  Safety and Health Services
      4.23  Buildings
      4.24  Roads and Grounds
      4.25  Transportation
            4.25.1     Marine Transportation
           4.25.2      Bus and Van Transportation
      4.26  Vehicles
      4.27  Shipping and Receiving
            4.27.1     Dry Ice
      4.28  Laboratory Glassware
      4.29  Laundry Services
      4.30  Food Services
      4.31  Custodial Services
      4.32  Escorting
      4.33  Visual Arts and Technology
      4.34  Historic Structures


5.0   Deliveries of Performance
      5.1   Period of Performance
      5.2   Place of Performance
      5.3   Hours of Operation
      5.4   Deliverables and Reports
            5.4.1 Deliverable Acceptance Criteria
            5.4.2 Documentation Standards
            5.4.3 List of Deliverables and Reports

6.0   Security Requirements
      6.1   PIADC Suitability and Personnel Reliability Program
           6.1.1 Employment Eligibility
           6.1.2 Continued Eligibility
           6.1.3 Termination
           6.1.4.      Security Management
           6.1.5 Suitability Determination
           6.1.6 Background Investigations
           6.1.7 Select Agent Regulations
      6.2   PIADC-specific Requirements
      6.3   Information Technology Security Clearance
      6.4   Information Technology Security Training and Oversight
      6.5   Information Security
      6.6   Physical Security
      6.7   Management of IT Assets
           6.7.1 Developed Solutions
           6.7.2 Hardware/Software
      6.8   Section 508

7.0   Contract Administration Data
      7.1   Requests for Payment/Submission of Invoices
      7.2   Reimbursement of Travel Costs
      7.3   Advertisements, Publicizing Awards, and News Releases
      7.4   DHS Points of Contact

8.0   Technical Exhibits

9.0   Standards, Requirements, and Regulations

1.0   INTRODUCTION

The Department of Homeland Security is seeking to establish a contract with a company to provide high quality comprehensive Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) services in support of the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC) mission located on Plum Island, New York.

The O&M Contractor (therein referred to as “Contractor”) will be responsible for providing labor, management, supervision, equipment, software,
firmware, and materials (except those items which are Government furnished) for all services required for the safe, reliable, effective,
efficient, and compliant, operations and maintenance at PIADC under normal, abnormal, and emergency conditions.

PIADC is a Government-owned, Government-operated facility and the Government will remain accountable for all performance at PIADC.  The O&M
Contractor, in turn, is directly accountable to the Government for performance under this contract.  However, it is the Government’s intent that
the O&M Contractor management team will be considered an integral participant with DHS for the leadership and management of PIADC operations.
Direct DHS oversight of the O&M Contractor’s performance will be minimized through reliance on the Contractor’s outstanding project management
capabilities coupled with their comprehensive, robust, and credible Quality Management program.

DHS seeks assistance in achieving the following four overarching Goals with this contract:

      1) Provide Outstanding Service to the Science and Technology Mission
      2) Protect People, Property, and the Environment
      3) Be a Trusted and Valued Neighbor and Employer
      4) Implement Sound Business Practices


2.0   BACKGROUND

      2.1   Overview

The DHS Office of National Laboratories (ONL) has responsibility for the safe, reliable, secure, efficient, and compliant operations of PIADC,
which is located on Plum Island, New York, an 840-acre island located approximately 1.5 miles from the eastern end of Long Island’s North Fork.
Transportation to and from the PIADC is provided by a Government-owned ferry from both New York and Connecticut.  DHS ONL is seeking a
Contractor to assist the Government in managing, operating, and maintaining the PIADC.

The history of Plum Island goes back to 1775 when one of the first engagements of the American Revolution occurred.   In 1898, the United States
Army built Fort Terry as a coastal defense for the Spanish-American War.  After Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) outbreaks in neighboring countries
(1948 in Mexico and 1952 in Canada), Congress directed FMD research to be conducted off the US mainland.  As a result, Congress transferred Plum
Island to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in 1952 at which point old Army facilities were modified to accommodate FMD
research facilities.  Since 1954 to 1991, the Government operated and maintained these facilities, and since 1991, O&M services have been
contracted out.  In 2003, Congress transferred responsibility for PIADC operations to DHS which continued to outsource O&M services.

The introduction of high-consequence animal diseases into the US would have a devastating affect on our economy and way of life.  DHS and the
USDA work collaboratively on Plum Island to protect the country from this risk.  Specifically, the USDA conducts basic research to better
understand these diseases and, based on that research, DHS is developing vaccines for FMD.  The USDA also maintains and continues to develop
foreign animal disease diagnostic and forensics capabilities and trains US and international veterinarians to better diagnose diseases in the
field.

In conducting the PIADC mission and operations, we interact with and have the potential to impact the environment and surrounding communities.
Minimizing the potential for adverse impacts is as equally important as executing our mission.

Collectively, about 350 Federal and contracted personnel currently work at PIADC with approximately 50% of the employees residing in New York
and remaining 50% residing in Connecticut.  Current personnel include scientific, O&M management and staff, security, and construction staff.

The operability of the PIADC facility must be maintained on a 24/7 basis.  The scientific workday typically occurs during normal business hours
Monday-Friday (approximately 6AM – 6PM).  However, the scientific work is sometimes extended beyond those hours, and, periodically (and at any
time), O&M services are required to support high priority diagnostic work (e.g. transportation).

A health clinic staffed by a Federal Occupational Health (FOH) nurse is manned during normal work hours and is available to O&M Contractor
management and staff in order to assist with completion of Occupational Medical Surveillance Program elements and drug testing required by this
contract (e.g. respirator clearances).

      2.2   Description of Facilities

The PIADC refers to the 840 acre Plum Island as well as the Orient Point facility which is approximately 9 acres (Technical Exhibits or TEs-1
and 2).  PIADC is largely self sufficient.  The physical and operational infrastructure are, in many respects, similar to what would be required
to support a small town; including, but not limited to, potable water and waste water, steam, and back-up power.

The majority of research conducted at PIADC occurs within the bio-containment facility, which is approximately 200,000 square feet and includes
Biosafety-Level (BSL) 2, BSL 3, BSL 3-Agriculture (Ag), Buildings 101 and 102, and equipment and machinery spaces.

A 55,000 square foot administrative building, which is connected to the bio-containment facility, provides office space, meeting rooms, an
auditorium, two BSL-2 laboratory suites (2,900 sq ft) and a cafeteria.   A significant part of the BSL 3 and BSL 3-Ag facilities are more than
50 years old.

Approximately 70,000 square feet of additional support buildings provide space for systems, equipment, storage, and the like, to support the
PIADC mission.

DHS is currently investing approximately $40 million in infrastructure improvements and facility upgrades.  Among the work being conducted is
the construction of two large animal rooms and associated infrastructure systems; expansion of necropsy space; and, repairs/upgrades of
electric, water supply, and waste-water decontamination systems.  Work is scheduled to be completed in the winter of 2010.  Additionally, work
will commence to upgrade components to our security system throughout the facility starting January 2010.

      2.3   Key Management Considerations


In addition to finding a Contractor that will provide excellent Operations and Maintenance services to PIADC as described in this SOW, DHS is
interested in establishing a contract with a company that can provide creative, effective, and efficient approaches to address the following
key focus areas of operations. Additional details are provided in the respective management and technical sections within this SOW.

Project Management:  The O&M contractor will be required to manage the cost, schedule, and quality of services required by this contract as a
formal project, including the use of Earned Value as a key performance metric and management tool.  The project management capabilities of the
Contrcator will need to be outstanding to meet this requirement.

Quality Management:  PIADC research and diagnostic activities are conducted within BSL 2, BSL 3, and BSL 3-Ag containment facilities.
Additionally, facility operations have the potential to impact the environment.  Operations within the facility require a high degree of
discipline in operations and quality management including development, improvement and adherence to procedures, staff qualification
requirements, records management etc.  DHS is seeking a contractor with expertise in implementing quality management programs commensurate with
the risks associated with PIADC operations.  An emphasis will be placed on implementing a quality management program that conforms to ISO 9001,
particularly for higher risk/important services.

Recruitment: Several factors affect the ability to recruit, and the time to employ staff, at PIADC.  The remote location of the facility and the
length of time it takes to obtain security clearances impact the ability to effectively and efficiently recruit and employ staff.

Collective Bargaining:  Approximately 80 O&M contract personnel are currently represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers,
Local 30.  Productive and constructive labor relations are vital to safe, effective, and efficient operations and maintenance services.

Age of Facility:  Many parts of the PIADC facility are more than fifty years old.  Although much of the facility is well maintained, the
facility’s age often present challenges. Among them are spare parts availability; older technologies and communications; and, the need to
conduct asbestos encapsulation and, abatement, or both, during routine maintenance.

Critical Equipment Reliability Assurance:   DHS is seeking to improve the structure and utilization of the core principles and tenets of a
reliability centered maintenance (RCM) management program.  This program will systematically identify and implement the operations and
maintenance activities that will manage the risks of equipment failure most effectively and efficiently and assist DHS in identifying critical
capital improvement initiatives to optimize operations.  Consideration should be given to flexibility in the program to respond to changing
conditions and requirements, to determine which equipment failure affects safety and the environment, to be able to make the connection between
maintenance and product quality, to achieve a high level of product availability, and to contain costs.

24/7 Emergency Response and Rescue Capabilities:  DHS is seeking to effectively and efficiently strengthen emergency response and rescue
capabilities on a 24/7 basis.  Specifically, the Government is looking to provide 24/7 on-island Advanced Life Support Capabilities and also
assure the availability of on-island core fire response and rescue capabilities on a 24/7 basis.  Effective and efficient solutions will
undoubtedly require creative approaches to leveraging on-island staff who maintain active qualifications but who also provide other services at
PIADC.  Deviations from this practice will need to be approved by PIADC management.

Planning and Financial Management:  PIADC operations are funded by the Department of Homeland Security through Federal appropriations.  Budgets
are developed on a floating 5-year horizon with specific requests prepared two-years in advance for inclusion in the President’s budget request
to congress.  The O&M Contractor will have an important role in forecasting budget needs based on facility condition and projected maintenance
costs.  Furthermore, funding availability can be impacted by congressional actions and mandates such as continuing resolutions and rescissions.
Business and management processes must be sufficiently agile to respond to these types of congressional actions.

Technology-based Solutions:  DHS is seeking a partner to assist in the evolution of Information Technology (IT) solutions to improve management
and operational performance.  A Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) and an IT Help Desk work order management system are two
specific areas of interest.  As noted above, as a result of the age of the facilities, PIADC currently has a limited IT infrastructure from
which staff can leverage (e.g. limited Internet capabilities in outbuildings).

Cooperation with and Support of Multiple Contracting Organizations:  DHS uses several contractors to provide for operations support at PIADC.
Security, public affairs, administration, engineering, construction, and financial management are among the services procured through other
contractors.  The O&M Contractor invariably has a role in supporting the roles of other contractors to achieve the PIADC overall goals and
objectives.  Constructive and collaborative working relationships need to be fostered and maintained.

Environmental/Energy-based Solutions:  DHS is interested in influencing the right behaviors in their staff and visitors to minimize/optimize
energy consumption.  In addition to complying with applicable environmental regulations, the Contractor will be committed to progressing DHS’
sustainability performance plans and will be responsible for proposing energy conservation metrics that meet performance requirements.

Impact of Inclement Weather on Operations:  The commute to and from Plum Island can have a significant impact to the performance as well as the
morale of staff.  As the Contractor will be responsible for providing transportation for staff, it will be important for the Contractor to
recognize this and be flexible in its regular planning efforts.  During periods of inclement weather, it may be necessary to alter boat
schedules and/or paths to the final destination in order to minimize negative impacts to staff well-being.  As a result, the Contractor shall
provide a systematic approach to advising the DO on alterations to the schedule as well as communicating appropriate messages to staff.

Responsible Animal Care – PIADC adheres to Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) animal wellbeing
benchmarks as well as AAALAC guidelines to maintain the facilities and infrastructure of the rooms in which animals are housed.  The O&M
Contractor is expected to follow the AAALAC standards in any activities associated with animal care and transport.

3.0   Management PROGRAM Requirements

The Contractor will be responsible for providing a robust management framework to manage contract expectations and leveraging effective program
management capabilities and resources in order to meet operational objectives.  O&M Contractor Program Management will implement an operating
model that focuses on systematic planning efforts, building synergies amongst cross-functional/cross-Agency teams, and establishes appropriate
disciplines, standards, and competencies within each O&M service line.  The Contractor shall promote an open forum that promotes knowledge
transfer, anticipates obstacles and opportunities, and builds strong customer connections.  Regular and objective communication will play a
critical role in determining the success of the program.

The following deliverables and components constitute the Government’s requirements for Program Management:

      3.1   Program Project Plan


The Contractor shall develop, implement, and use a comprehensive project plan based upon industry accepted project management standards (e.g.
PMBOK) which should include a work breakdown structure, requirements for monitoring, and control of the effort required to meet all provisions
of this statement of work. A preliminary Program Project Plan will be provided to the government with the contractor’s proposal.  A final
project plan, subject to Government approval will be required at the completion the transition period.  The project plan shall include clearly
defined change control processes

Within six (6) months  of the transition, the contractor’s project and earned value management system shall be independently verified to be
adequate and effective.  The third party entity shall be fully independent of the contractor and any partners for services provided at PIADC and
shall be approved by the DHS.

The following specify additional requirements that shall be included in the Program Project Plan.

           3.1.1 Contract Work Breakdown Structure (CWBS)


      The Contractor shall maintain the CWBS and dictionary. The CWBS shall provide the basis for further extension by the  Contractor  to  lower
      levels during the performance of the contract.  The Contractor shall extend the CWBS to the appropriate level required to provide  adequate
      internal management, surveillance, and performance measurement, regardless of the reporting level stipulated in the contract for Government
      visibility.  The Contractor shall use the CWBS as the primary framework for contract  planning,  budgeting,  and  reporting  of  the  cost,
      schedule and technical performance status to the Government.  The Contractor  shall  analyze  the  system  requirements  specified  in  the
      statement of work and system specification; translate them into a structure representing the products and services that comprise the entire
      work effort commensurate with the acquisition phase and contract requirements.  The Contractor's team or organizational entity  responsible
      for the systems engineering of the system shall prepare the technical elements of the extended CWBS.  The Contractor shall update the  CWBS
      during the execution of the contract.  Changes to the CWBS or associated definitions at any reporting level shall require approval  of  the
      Government.


              3. Performance Management System


      The Contractor shall define and implement and internal performance management system to plan, schedule, budget, monitor, manage, and report
      cost, schedule, and technical status applicable to the contract.  The Contractor's internal performance management system  shall  serve  as
      the single, formal, integrated system that meets both the Contractor's  internal  management  requirements  and  the  requirements  of  the
      Government for timely, reliable, and auditable performance information.   The  application  of  these  concepts  shall  provide  for  early
      indication of contract cost, schedule, and technical challenges.  Earned value assessments shall correlate with technical achievement.  The
      outputs of this system shall be used as the basis to report detailed performance status during program management reviews and other  status
      meetings.  The Contractor's system shall satisfy the Industry Standards delineated in the ANSI/EIA-748, the Earned Value Management General
      Provisions of the contract and this Statement of Work (SOW). The Contractor shall not establish a separate or unique  internal  performance
      management system for purposes of planning, scheduling, directing, statusing, recording, or reporting progress under this contract.


           3.1.3 Integrated Baseline Review (IBR)


      An IBR focusing on the realism of the Contractor's integrated Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB) and the appropriateness of the  earned
      value methodology to be employed under the contract shall occur as soon as possible after the contract PMB is in place, but,  in  no  event
      without specific authorization of the Contracting Officer, shall initiation of the IBR process be delayed past the sixth month after  award
      of this Contract.  Incremental IBRs will be conducted as needed throughout the life of the contract  for  major  contract  changes  or  re-
      planning.  Participation in the IBR shall be a joint responsibility of both  the  Government  Program  Manager  and  the  contractor.   The
      Contractor shall flow-down the IBR requirement to those subcontractors  that  meet  the  applicable  thresholds  for  EVM  reporting.   The
      Contractor shall lead the IBR at subcontractors, with active participation from the Government.


           3.1.4       Integrated Program Management (IPM) Reporting


      The Contractor shall report Earned Value Management data as applicable to this contract in accordance with the requirements  stated  herein
      and the Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL).  All reporting  shall  correspond  to  applicable  CWBS  elements.   The  Contractor  shall
      reconcile reporting elements in the Contract Funds Status Report (CFSR) with the Contract Performance Report (CPR) when these documents are
      submitted in the same month.  The Contractor shall provide a reconciliation of the CFSR with CPR as an addendum to the CPR.





           3.1.5       Application to Subcontractors


      The Contractor shall flow-down Earned Value Management and the reporting requirements to subcontractors providing twenty percent or more of
      projected O&M contract value meeting the applicable thresholds and/or assigned critical tasks.  The performance information reported by the
      subcontractors shall be incorporated and integrated into the Contractor's management system.   The  Contractor  shall  be  responsible  for
      reviewing and assuring the validity of all subcontractors  reporting  through  surveillance  and  other  means.  Subcontractor  performance
      management information shall be integrated into the Contractor's CPR, IMS, and CFSR.

           3.1.6       Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)

      The IMS will have the following characteristics:

            • It will be consistent with the contract work breakdown structure.

            • It must be detailed sufficiently that critical and high risk efforts  are  identified  and  planned  as  realistically  to  assure
              executability. The IMS will be extended and expanded as the contract or agreement unfolds and additional insight  is  needed  (for
              example, rolling wave detail planning or scope changes).

            • It will include the efforts of all activities, including contractor or supplier and subcontractor.

            • It will present a current, integrated view of the  contract  or  agreement  that  is  consistent  with  resource  plans,  Contract
              Performance Reports, and other approved documentation.

            • It should reflect those risks identified and documented in the contractor’s risk management plan.

              7. Over Target Baseline (OTB)/Restructure

      In the event of changing conditions it may be necessary to reevaluate the project baseline because it no longer represents a realistic plan
      in terms of budget/schedule execution. In this event the Contractor  shall  submit  a  request  for  an  OTB/restructuring  action  to  the
      Contracting Officer. The request should include at a minimum a detailed implementation timeframe. The Contractor  will  not  implement  the
      OTB/restructuring prior to receiving written approval from the Contracting Officer.





      3.2   Staffing Plan


The Contractor shall develop and implement a staffing plan.  The preliminary plan shall be provided with contract proposal. The staffing plan
shall:
      • An organization chart that clearly delineates organizational structure and reporting relationships
      • Define who is a full-time, part-time, who is an employee or a subcontractor, and who will be based primarily on site or at an off-island
        location.
      • Include position descriptions and minimum qualifications for each position within the contract.
      • Define technical discipline and site-specific training and qualification requirements for all staff to perform their duties under
        normal, abnormal, and emergency conditions as required by section 3.3 Training and Qualifications.
      • Define the processes and metrics the contractor will use to implement the plan.


      3.3   Program Management Reviews (PMRs)

PMRs will be conducted by the Contractor every three (3) months to determine how effectively the overall O&M program is being administered and
whether the funds are being used judiciously for the purposes for which they were allotted.  The Contractor shall use the management review
requirements of ISO 9001 and 14001 as the basis for the approach and objectives of the reviews. The Contractor will be responsible for
scheduling the reviews, determining the required participants for these reviews, the inputs (e.g. outputs from the previous PMR, performance
data, quality metrics, corrective actions, improvement recommendations), the outputs (e.g. action items, ownership of these items, due dates)
and deliverables for review (e.g. program status reports, funds expenditure reports, incident/emergency-related reports, after action reports,
investigations/studies).  Quality Management program shall include Program Management Reviews.


        4. Self-assessment Report


The Contractor will provide an assessment of their progress in meeting PIADC goals and objectives, will define metrics and targets for each goal
and objective, and define additional objectives and measures as necessary.  The Contractor will provide the Report for the Government’s review
and schedule and conduct a meeting with PIADC management to present the Report and answer questions.




      3.5   Document/Procedure Management


The Contractor shall develop, maintain, and implement procedures for the conduct of work performed under this contract for normal, abnormal and
emergency conditions.  The specific procedures required shall be commensurate with the significance of activity to the mission, the protection
of staff, the protection of the environment, and the security and protection of property.  Development, administration, and management of the
procedures shall conform to the requirements of the DHS Document/Procedure Management Program.  All documents and procedures generated as a
result of performing work under this contract are the property of the Department of Homeland Security.


      3.6   Records Management


All records generated as a result of performing work under this contract are the property of the Department of Homeland Security.  Records shall
legible, readily identifiable, retrievable and traceable to the activity for which they were generated. The Contractor shall develop, maintain,
and implement a procedure for the control of such records.  The procedure, which may be included in the Contractor’s Quality Management Plan,
shall be approved by DHS and include at a minimum, requirements for storage, protection, retention.


      3.7   Meetings


In addition to meetings deemed appropriate by the Contractor’s management team, the Contractor and staff shall participate and contribute in
meetings as requested by DHS.  Minutes of meetings defined in the Contractor’s Project Management Plan and/or Quality Management Plan shall be
maintained and provided to DHS at their request.

      3.8   Key Personnel


Key personnel shall be accepted by the government.  All of these positions shall be based on Plum Island on a full-time basis.  Before removing,
replacing, or diverting any of the specified personnel or facilities, the Contractor shall provide timely (nominally thirty (30) days)
notification to the government.  The written justification (including proposed substitutions) will be of sufficient detail to permit evaluation
of the impact on this contract and on-going task performance.  The Contractor shall make no change to the key personnel without the government’s
written consent.


The following positions are considered “key”.


   Project Manager:  The Project Manager (PM) shall have a bachelor degree in an engineering or technical field and a minimum of ten (10) years
   experience in managing organizations with a unionized workforce in the facilities operations and maintenance services industry; specifically
   for facilities of comparable size and complexity and one that requires a high degree of quality assurance and control (e.g. biomedical,
   nuclear power, hospital/health care).  Experience in commercial nuclear power operations is highly desirable.  Professional Management
   Professional (PMP) and ICS 300 Certification required.


   Deputy Project Manager:  The Deputy Project Manager (DPM) shall have a bachelor degree in an engineering or technical field and a minimum of
   five (5) years in managing facilities operations, specifically for facilities of comparable size and complexity and one that requires a high
   degree of quality assurance and control (e.g. biomedical, nuclear power, research and development, hospital/health care).  Professional
   Engineer (PE) designation required.  Professional Management Professional (PMP) and/or Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) certification
   preferred.  The DPM will have day-to-day coordination and control over O&M activities at a tactical level.  The DPM will also serve as the
   backup for the Project Manager.


   Business/Financial Manager: The Financial/Business Manager shall have an MBA, a minimum of five (5) years progressively responsible experience
   in managing the finances and other business functions (e.g. procurement, human capital) in the federal facilities O&M service industry. In
   lieu of an MBA, the individual may posses a bachelors degree in business and demonstrate 10 years relevant experience.  PMP required as well
   as previous experience working on a project with a certified/validated EVM (Earned Value Management) system.


   Quality Manager: The Quality Manager must have a Bachelors degree in a technical field and have expert knowledge in ISO 9001, certification as
   an ISO 9001 lead auditor is desirable.  He/she shall have a minimum of five (5) years experience in managing a Quality Management program in
   the facilities operations and maintenance industry similar in size and complexity of PIADC and requiring a high degree of quality assurance
   and control (e.g. biomedical, nuclear power, research and development, hospital/health care).  The Quality Manager shall have a dotted line
   reporting relationship to the Contractor’s corporate officers.


   The Contractor will supply resumes of their selections for these key positions and signed commitment letters for the final candidates prior to
   contract award.  These key positions are required to remain in these positions for at least one year upon start of the contract period of
   performance.


      3.9   Required and Preferred Management Team Qualifications


In addition to key personnel defined above, the entire on-site Contractor’s management team (Project Manager and direct reports with the
exception of administrative personnel) shall be considered Key Personnel once the contract is in place.  The Contractor shall establish an
organization and define qualification requirements based on PIADC operations and contractual requirements for those key personnel not defined
above.  To assist offerors in defining qualifications of their full management team, qualifications that DHS considers required versus preferred
are included described below:


























      |Functional Managerial Role         |Required Qualifications                                             |Preferred Qualifications                                       |
|Work Controls                      |Prior experience in developing and implementing a reliability       |Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification            |
|                                   |centered maintenance program                                        |                                                               |
|Marine Vessel Operations and       |100-ton vessel current master captain’s license                     |                                                               |
|maintenance                        |Five (5) years captaining operating experience in large vessel/ferry|                                                               |
|                                   |operations                                                          |                                                               |
|                                   |Five (5) years experience in marine vessel fleet management         |                                                               |
|                                   |(including vessel and harbor operations, vessel and engine          |                                                               |
|                                   |maintenance, fuel management, shipyard management)                  |                                                               |
|Utilities                          |Ten (10) years equipment operations and maintenance experience in an|                                                               |
|                                   |industrial facilities O&M environment (e.g. boilers, chillers)      |                                                               |
|                                   |requiring a high degree of quality assurance and control (e.g.      |                                                               |
|                                   |biomedical, nuclear power, research and development, hospital/health|                                                               |
|                                   |care)                                                               |                                                               |
|Bio-containment Laboratory         |Five (5) years experience managing operations and maintenance       |                                                               |
|Facilities                         |associated with containment facilities including directional air    |                                                               |
|                                   |flow and HEPA filters                                               |                                                               |
|Health and Safety                  |Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) or a safety professional       |Experience with implementing plans to conform to AIHA/ANSI Z-10|
|                                   |certified by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (CSP)      |                                                               |
|                                   |5 years experience in developing and implementing safety and health |                                                               |
|                                   |programs in a similar laboratory, biomedical research, hospital or  |                                                               |
|                                   |university environment. This experience should include 1-3 years of |                                                               |
|                                   |biological safety                                                   |                                                               |
|Fire, Rescue, and Emergency Medical|Current certification as an Advanced Life Support (ALS) responder   |                                                               |
|Services                           |(at a critical care or higher)                                      |                                                               |
|                                   |Minimum five (5) years experience as an active officer in a paid or |                                                               |
|                                   |volunteer fire service                                              |                                                               |
|                                   |ICS 300 Certification                                               |                                                               |
|Functional Managerial Role         |Required Qualifications                                             |Preferred Qualifications                                       |
|Environmental Management           |Minimum five (5) years environmental compliance experience in       |Experience in managing an environmental management program     |
|                                   |relevant operations (e.g. petroleum storage and distribution        |under an ISO 14001 registration                                |
|                                   |facilities, atmospheric emissions, waste water treatment, and       |                                                               |
|                                   |hazardous waste management)                                         |                                                               |
|Information Technology             |Minimum (5) years experience managing IT/Telecommunications         |Prior experience in any of the following disciplines with      |
|                                   |resources in a similar environment.                                 |experience in multiple areas preferred:  IT Project Management,|
|                                   |                                                                    |Networking, Help Desk Management, Database Management, IT      |
|                                   |                                                                    |Systems Security, Wireless Data Systems, Bldg. Management      |
|                                   |                                                                    |Systems, Telephony/VOIP, Fire Alarms, Control Systems, Security|
|                                   |                                                                    |Systems, and Radio                                             |

      3.10  Supervisory Presence

The Contractor shall have supervisory presence on-island on a 24/7 year-round basis.  The on-premise supervisor shall have responsibility and
authority to direct and oversee all work being performed by Contractor employees at the time and shall be authorized to call in additional
resources as necessary to address issues considered to be urgent (e.g. support of APHIS diagnostic priority samples; conditions that compromise
the operability or reliability of critical systems; etc.).

The Contractor shall ensure that all on-site supervisors achieve ICS 300 certification within six months of contract award.

      3.11  Corporate Assurance

On a semi-annual basis, a corporate officer shall provide an assurance letter to the PIADC Director of Operations attesting to the effectiveness
and efficiency with which the provisions and obligations under the contract are being satisfied.  The letter shall identify significant
accomplishments and successes as well as other areas where further management attention and corrective action is necessary to assure continued
corporate success in providing PIADC Operations and Maintenance services.

Corporate officers shall visit Island no less than quarterly to discuss performance toward meeting PIADC goals and objectives with key
stakeholders.




      3. 12 Training and Qualifications

All Contractor personnel shall be qualified to perform the work they are assigned under normal, abnormal, and emergency conditions.

The Contractor shall define and implement an effective and efficient program to systematically determine training and qualification
needs/requirements and assure that the requirements are satisfied for all staff on an on-going basis.  Training and qualification requirements
shall meet applicable regulatory requirements and standards adopted by PIADC management and be commensurate with the importance, complexity, and
risks associated with the work performed.

Contractor staff shall participate in training programs required by the DHS.  Examples of such training are included in TE-10.

The Contractor shall ensure that all licenses and certifications are kept current, maintained on file, and produced upon request from the
Government (TE-13).

      3.13  Drug and Alcohol Testing

No Contractor personnel are permitted on PIADC property under the influence of alcohol or drugs.

The Contractor shall define and implement a drug and alcohol testing and evaluation program for:
      • Random testing of all personnel involved in motor vehicle and marine vessel operations and for all staff enrolled in the PIADC Select
        Agent Program.
      • Testing of personnel directly involved in a significant accident to determine if drug or alcohol impairment contributed to the accident.




Specific requirements for such a drug and alcohol testing and evaluation program are included in TE-14.

      3.14  Transition

Transition is the coordinated transfer of O&M services and equipment from the relevant incumbent contractor(s) to the Contractor. It includes
the Contractor’s performance of all efforts, in accordance with the Government  approved Transition Plan, necessary to ensure that its
subcontractors, and its teaming partners are ready to successfully assume full performance of the O&M contract upon expiration of the transition
period.

           3.14.1      Phase-In Transition

      Upon award of the O&M contract and for a period of 90 days thereafter, the Contractor shall:
            • Participate in the O&M post-award conference and other transition-related meetings with the PIADC as well as other contractor
              personnel as may be required by the agency;
            • Establish relevant financial accounts in support of the O&M contract;
            • Hire and position its staff for full performance under the contract;
            • Submit and secure Government approval of required personnel and facility clearances;
            • Institute its Program Management Office (PMO) and support team;
            • Finalize its subcontracts and teaming arrangements;
            • Coordinate and consult with the other contractors; and
            • Complete all other efforts necessary to ensure that it is ready to commence full performance of the contract upon completion of
              transition.


      The Contractor shall support and cooperate with PIADC and its designated agents. During the transition period the Contractor shall
      coordinate and support daily status meetings with the PIADC to ensure transition is on track for timely completion.


      The PIADC expects the low-risk, phased-in, smooth, and seamless transition to occur during non-peak hours with no disruption to its
      operations or those of other contractors supporting the PIADC.  The COTR will coordinate transition efforts among current service providers
      and the Contractor.  The PIADC will provide the Contractor with the information, data, and applications necessary to effect transition to
      the contract.


      Transition has been successfully completed when the Contractor has demonstrated that it is prepared to assume full day to day performance
      of the O&M contract.  Transition shall be successfully completed within 90 days of contract award.


      Within 5 days of contract award, the Contractor shall provide a detailed final plan, which addresses the transition methodology, processes,
      key milestones, and schedule, to assure a complete, effective, and efficient transition of contract requirements from the incumbent within
      a 90 day period.  It is critical that the O&M Contractor implement a realistic transition plan which addresses all factors and risks, and
      includes contingency plans for missed milestones or other impacts to the schedule.


      The plan shall include, at a minimum:
            • Key transition activities and due dates within 60 day period
            • Roles and responsibilities of Government, Contractor and incumbent personnel (e.g. organizational chart)
            • Critical hiring actions
            • A strategy for implementing supervisory functions
            • The process of transitioning predecessor employees
            • Collective bargaining negotiations
            • Completion of corporate and site specific training, copies of certifications and applicable security clearances
            • A progress report on obtaining permits, licenses, and registrations
            • A status report on submitting applications for personnel clearances
            • Facility and equipment inspections
            • List of items to transition (e.g. inventories, passwords, training documentation, warranties, subcontracts, etc.)
            • Procedure, policy, and systems development
            • Communication plan (reporting requirements, internal and external stakeholder communication, transition status meetings, issues
              management, training/orientation, etc.)



      No later than five business days prior to the end of the transition period, the Contractor shall provide a Transition Completion Report
      (TCR) to the PIADC indicating that it has successfully completed all transition activities and it is ready to assume full performance of
      the O&M contract.  PIADC approval of the TCR will constitute the authorization for the Contractor to assume full performance responsibility
      for the O&M contract.



      The Contractor shall appoint a Transition Project Manager who shall have no other responsibilities than to coordinate the execution of the
      transition plan and liaise with the Government’s contracted transition project manager.


           3.14.2      Phase-Out Transition


      The Contractor shall cooperate fully and openly with any future contractor assuming responsibility for PIADC operations and maintenance
      services


      At the Government’s discretion, the Contractor shall develop a Phase-Out Transition Plan consisting of the following:
            • Actions, schedules, and roles and responsibilities to assist in transition to a new contractor
            • Update of TE-4 (Government Furnished Equipment)
            • List of items to transition (e.g. inventories, passwords, training documentation, warranties, etc.)
            • Update and transfer of any and all existing procedures necessary and appropriate for managing PIADC O&M services
            • Facilitating facility walkthroughs
            • Conducting thorough turnovers (procedures, machinery history, etc.) with new management staff
            • Transfer of subcontracts
            • Introductions to subcontractors and mutual aid partners
            • Removal of Contractor-owned property
      The plan shall be sufficient to assure and effective and efficient two (2)-month transition period and be subject to DHS approval.






      3.15  Work Planning and Control

All work or projects performed by the Contractor shall be effectively and efficiently planned, managed, authorized, and controlled in a manner
commensurate with risk, scale, and complexity.

The contractor shall define and implement a work planning, and control process to assure that all work is adequately and effectively planned and
controlled.  It shall include provisions for work requests from PIADC staff and communication of status throughout the life-cycle of the work.

The Contractor shall include the use of the DHS Work Planning and Control System to achieve these objectives and improve work processes.  Within
this system, the Contractor shall assure that potential environment, safety, health, and security issues/risks are identified and appropriately
controlled.  The Contractor shall solicit and address worker feedback to understand and prioritize work that is and will be conducted, what
functional areas, equipment, and ancillary services (e.g. cargo ferry) should be involved in work planned, and to address configuration
management concerns such as drawing updates and maintenance of equipment history files.


While DHS will provide all oversight and management of projects such as Upgrades-related activities, the input and views of the O&M Contractor
management and technical staff are important to assure the effectiveness and efficiency of designs and construction approaches.  Additionally,
the services provided by the Contractor (e.g. transportation, escorting, room decontamination) are critical to overall project success.
Engineering Support, small scale construction, repairs, and alterations, and Project Management duties will be supplied by the Contractor to
support normal maintenance functions.

      3.16  Quality Management

The Contractor shall define and implement a rigorous Quality Management program based upon the tenants of ISO 9001 for services provided under
this contract.  It shall be tailored based on relative importance of specific services provided to sustaining the operability of mission
critical systems and components and other services deemed critical to the success of the PIADC four overarching operational goals.  The program
shall include planned and systematic actions to provide confidence that the end-result will satisfy defined requirements as well as the use of
tests, inspections, etc. to ensure that requirements will be met.

A preliminary quality management program plan shall be provided to the government with the contractor’s proposal.  A final plan shall, subject
to DHS approval, shall be delivered within 30 days of completion of the transition period.


Within 18 months of contract award the Contractor shall achieve and maintain ISO 9001 registration for services provided in high impact/risk
areas.  At a minimum, operations and maintenance in the following areas shall be included in the registration.

      • All operations and maintenance essential to PIADC’s bio-safety program, including but not limited to bio-safety cabinetry, autoclaves,
        biological material courier services, liquid-waste decontamination systems, verification of decontamination processes, air filtration
        systems, and regulated medical waste management.


      • All operations and services associated with advanced life support and emergency medical services.


      • All operations and maintenance associated with systems or equipment defined in or required by environmental permits. (TE - 6)


      • All maintenance associated with animal room operations and maintenance required by animal welfare procedures.



      3.17  Business Management

           3.17.1      Financial Management / Controls and Reporting


      The Contractor will be responsible for developing and maintaining the overall budget (on a floating 5 year basis) and spend plans and
      tracking all costs (e.g. labor including subcontracted resources, materials, equipment, and supplies, travel, other direct costs, indirect
      costs, etc.).  The Contractor will closely monitor actual expenditures against budgeted expenditures to determine whether the funds are
      being used judiciously for the purposes for which they were allotted consistent with the earned value management system.


           3.17.2      Procurement System


      The Contractor shall conduct all procurements in accordance with applicable FARs.  Within one (1) year of contract award, the Contractor
      shall establish and maintain a procurement system certified to XXX.


           3.17.3      Environmentally Preferable (“green”) Purchasing


      As part of the normal purchasing of goods and supplies, the Contractor will make every effort and take every opportunity, within the
      mission boundaries and fiscal considerations, to purchase biobased, environmentally-preferable, energy efficient, water-efficient and
      recycled-content products, including paper, as directed by Executive Order (E.O.) 13423 – Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and
      Transportation Management.   Electronics purchases must meet the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool standard (EPEAT) where
      applicable; Energy Star® features should be present on computers, monitors, laundry, and cafeteria appliances; and, where possible, donate,
      reuse or recycle discarded electronic products.


      All Contractor procurements will meet the requirements of EO 13514 – Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance.


      The Contractor will provide a quarterly report to the PIADC DHS Environmental Protection Office (EPO) documenting successful and
      unsuccessful attempts to purchase environmentally preferable products. These include but are not limited to the following programs and
      products with the following designations:
            • Recycled content products as designated in Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines.
            • Energy Star –EPA and Department of Energy (DOE) or Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP).
            • Water efficient - EPA’s WaterSense Standards.
            • Energy from renewable sources.
            • Biobased products designated by USDA BioPreferred Program.
            • Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT)-Registered.
            • Alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels.
            • Products with no or low hazardous constituents.
            • Non-ozone depleting substances –EPA’s Significant New Alternatives Program.


      All procurement of radioactive material or any equipment containing a radioactive material source/component must be coordinated and
      approved by the PIADC Location Radiation Protection Officer (LRPO).


           3.17.4      Contract Property / Government Furnished Property

      The Contractor is responsible for the control and accountability of Government property on behalf of PIADC.  Contract property is all
      property, both real and personal, that is used in performing a contract.  It includes facilities, material, special tooling, special test
      equipment and agency-specific property (such as personal digital assistants, radios, etc.), and data (such as electronic documentation,
      system passwords, etc.).  Contract property includes both Contractor-Acquired Property (CAP) and Government-Furnished Property (GFP) in the
      possession of Contractors.  Real Property is noted in TE-2, Equipment to be maintained is noted in TE-3, and Government Furnished Property
      is noted in TE-4.  CAP becomes Government property.  The Contractor will provide DHS Form 700-5 to the Government on an annual basis.


                 3.17.4.1   Control and Accountability of Contract Property


           Effective control and accountability must be maintained for all contract property as an integral part of DHS contracts, and in
           accordance with FAR Parts 45, “Government Property” 52.245-1, and “Government Property”, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation
           (HSAR) Chapter 3045.  If there is a discrepancy in guidance between these documents, the Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation and
           Manual must be read as subordinate guidance to the FAR.

                 3.17.4.2   Contractor Responsibilities

           Contractor responsibilities, as they relate to contract property, are detailed in the contract provision or FAR Part 45, and include
           the following specific requirements:
                  • Use Contract Property as it was authorized and for the purpose intended.
                  • Account for all contract property in their possession, whether Contractor Acquired Property (CAP) or Government Furnished
                    Property (GFP)
                  • Establish and maintain a property control system to control, protect, preserve, maintain and disposition of all contract
                    property.
                  • Maintain and make available the records of all contract property until relieved of such responsibilities by the Contracting
                    Officer (CO)
                  • Report Lost, Damaged or Destroyed (LDD) property or unneeded contract property as soon as it becomes known to the PIADC
                    Government Property Administrator (GPA) in accordance with FAR 52.245-1(f)(1)(VI).
                  • Conduct periodic physical inventories and reporting the results to the GPA no later than September 15 of each year, and at
                    the completion of the contract in accordance with FAR 52.245-1(f)(1)(IV).
                  • Submit an annual financial report using DHS Form 700-5, Contractor Report of Government Property”, no later than September 15
                    of each year, and at the completion of the contract.


                 3.17.4.3   Property Control System


           The Contractor will provide a property management system that effectively manages materials, equipment, spare parts, and general
           property assets that are provided to them as GFE, or are procured by them.  Life cycle management considerations and minimization of
           storage space are ongoing concerns.


           The Contractor’s Property Control System will have the following functional elements:
                  • Property Management
                  • Acquisition
                  • Receiving
                  • Identification
                  • Records
                  • Movement
                  • Storage
                  • Physical inventories
                  • Reports of LDD property
                  • Consumption
                  • Utilization
                  • Maintenance
                  • Subcontractor control
                  • Disposition
                  • Contract property closeout
                  • Loss Reporting (Timely)


                 3.17.4.4   Government-owned IT and Telecommunication Assets


           The Contractor will be supplied, be expected to use regularly and in emergency situations, and maintain IT and telecommunication
           equipment such as computers (e.g. desktop and laptop units), telephones (e.g. land lines, mobile), radios, and Personal Data
           Assistants or PDAs such as Blackberries.  Use of Government-owned assets is a privilege and shall only be used for Government-based
           business only.  The Contractor will be responsible for determining which roles should be provided these assets and provide and
           maintain a list of such personnel for Government approval.  Along with monitoring initial asset provision, the Contractor will be
           expected to return assets on a timely basis upon employee termination.  The Contractor shall track utilization and provide regular
           reports to the Government.


      3.18  Safety, Health, and Environmental Management

Contractor staff and subcontractors shall be protected from illness or injury during the course of their work conducted under this contract.  In
addition, work conducted under this contract shall be conducted in a manner that demonstrates commitment to energy conservation; conservation of
natural resources; reduction or elimination of pollution; reduction of generated waste; and, integration of environmental stewardship into day-
to-day activities.  Accordingly, the Contractor shall develop, define, and implement a safety, health and environmental management (SHEMS)
program.  DHS has adopted and utilizes an ISO 140001 and AIHA/ANSI Z-10-compliant SHEMS program. The contractor shall develop and implement
their program consistent with the overarching program defined by DHS.


The Contractor shall submit a Site Safety and Health Plan (SSHP) with its proposal that comprehensively addresses the range of potential
exposures and hazards expected to be experienced by Contractor staff during performance of this contract.  The plan shall be consistent with the
Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Applicable Code Rules for the state of New York and Local Safety Requirements, and
based on 29 CFR 1910 and AIHA/ANSI Z-10.  Within 45 days after contract award, the Contractor shall submit a final SSHP to the Contracting
Officer for Government approval.  The plan shall be implemented and maintained by the Contractor throughout the course of the contract  The plan
shall be reviewed and updated at a minimum of once a year and shall be resubmitted to the Contracting Officer for Government approval.

The Contractor shall submit an environmental management plan with this proposal based upon the range of environmental risks associated with Plum
Island operations and maintenance for which they have responsibility.  This plan shall meet Federal, state, county, and other local
environmental regulations, meet the requirements of Executive Order (EO) 13423 and EO 13514, and be consistent with ISO 14001.  Within 45 days
after contract award, the Contractor shall submit a final environmental management plan to the Contracting Officer for Government approval.  The
plan shall be implemented and maintained by the Contractor throughout the course of the contract  The plan shall be reviewed and updated at a
minimum of once a year and shall be resubmitted to the Contracting Officer for Government approval.

The Contractor shall appoint a SHEMS Coordinator who shall ensure that SHEMS requirements are established, implemented and maintained in
accordance with PIADC’s SHEMS program.  The Contractor’s SHEMS Coordinator shall work closely with the PIADC wide SHEMS management
representative to assure effective and efficient program implementation.

      3.19  Emergency/Incident Preparedness and Response

The PIADC relies heavily on the capabilities of the O&M Contractor to safely and effectively respond to emergencies.  In this regard, all O&M
staff personnel are considered emergency response personnel and have roles commensurate with their knowledge and skills.  For example, marine
vessel personnel assist in transporting equipment and personnel to and from the island; IT personnel may assist in establishing effective
communication to aid in incident response; environmental and building and grounds personnel may respond to petroleum spills; and, food service
people may need to prepare refreshments during protracted (extended) incident response and mutual aid activities.

In addition to technical program requirements for Emergency Preparedness and Response, all full-time Contractor staff will support the
implementation of PIADC’s emergency/incident response plans.  This is a growing area of focus by the Government and PIADC is in the process of
formalizing its emergency plans.  Each staff member’s roles and responsibilities within these plans will be commensurate with their knowledge,
skills, and experience.  Staff will perform tasks consistent with their normal responsibilities in support of incident command and functions
related to implementation of a Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) or additional assignments such as assisting with the safe evacuation of
personnel during fire alarms.  The Contractor will also be responsible for participating in exercises and drills to test the preparedness of
emergency response.

Within one year of completion of the contract transition period, all key personnel and all PIADC Fire Department personnel shall be certified to
at least the ICS 300 level.

The contractor shall provide to DHS and keep current, contact information including home phone numbers and cell phone numbers for use in
emergency preparedness/response plans.


      3.20  Communications with DHS, Regulators and other Authorities, and Media

The Contractor shall assist the Government with developing and disseminating communications within the PIADC and DHS communities.  The
Contractor shall coordinate with the COTR prior to any and all communications with DHS, regulators and other authorities related to PIADC
operations.  The Contractor shall not represent DHS or PIADC management in any communications (oral or written).

The Contractor shall not discuss PIADC operations any media outlets, unless controlled by DHS

The Contractor shall keep the Government apprised of any labor relations issues that may cause risk to PIADC operations.


      3.21  Cooperation during Audits

The Contractor shall cooperate fully and openly with Federal, state, local authorities conducting reviews or audits of PIADC operations.  Upon
completion of audits, the Contractor shall review the results of the audit and assist the Government with developing Corrective Action Reports
and implementing and managing actions and due dates until completed.  The Contractor shall also assist the Government to incorporate preventive
measures within processes and disciplines to ensure permanent resolution to either internally or externally identified issues.

      3.22  Procedural Compliance

Throughout this SOW specific PIADC programs, policies and procedures etc are referenced.  The contractor shall also be responsible to follow the
requirements of other procedures applicable to PIADC operations that developed (or improved) by or on behalf of DHS. Depending on resources
required to implement such procedures DHS will consider the need to authorize a change request to the project baseline.
4.0   Technical Requirements

      4.1   Biological Safety/Biological Containment Management and Services

PIADC research and diagnostic activities are conducted within BSL-2 , BSL-3, and BSL-3Ag biocontainment facilities on Plum Island as defined by
the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)/National Institutes of Health (NIH) Publication "Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical
Laboratories" and USDA Publication "Laboratory Design Standard 242.1".  This combination of facility design, equipment and specialized programs
provides "bio-containment" of the exotic agricultural pathogens to reduce or eliminate exposure of laboratory workers, other persons, and to the
outside environment.  It is of utmost importance that Plum Island O&M staff maintains and properly operates these primary and secondary
containment systems.  Plum Island’s scientific mission and, in fact, its ability to continue to operate responsibly to protect personnel,
property and the environment depends on this.

The Contractor is responsible for the management, maintenance, and operation and reporting of numerous biosafety systems and to supply safety
and biosafety services to Plum Island Staff.  PIADC will rely upon the Contractor's qualifications and capabilities of their personnel to
safely, effectively and efficiently manage these systems and programs and to deliver quality safety services to the PIADC customer base.  The
Contractor shall also have the capability to analyze current systems and programs to recommend improvements, amendments and/or changes in the
management of the systems.

The Contractor is responsible to maintain, update, or amend on an annual basis facility Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and to develop new
Procedures as new technology or equipment comes on line, installed or when obsolete equipment or technologies no longer are employed or
relevant.

The Contractor shall develop, implement and maintain a program by which all Contractor employees receive equipment specific training initially
or when there is a new work activity to ensure familiarity with correct operation.  The program shall include annual refresher training when
required with all training activities documented.

The Contractor shall also develop, implement and sustain Quality Control of Contractor operations with independent Quality Assurance monitoring
to ensure that these strategically important systems and programs are operating in accordance to applicable manufacturer's specifications;
national and international standards; Local, State and Federal rules and requirements and DHS and USDA Departmental Directives, Policies and
Procedures.

The Contractor is responsible to provide the qualified and certified manpower and services for the management of biological safety systems and
programs.  All systems and programs shall be performed according to design standards; manufacturer’s operating and maintenance instructions
and/or local procedures.

In regard to the biological safety systems, the Contractor shall perform the following services:

      • Maintenance of ventilation systems that employ, supply and exhaust filter components requiring periodic testing/re-
        certification/evaluation of the individual filter units (Note:  There are approximately 60 units containing 1-7 individual filter
        enclosures per unit).  Responsible for biological decontamination, removal, disposal, replacement and certification of filtering
        systems, and monitoring of performance through differential pressures.  The directional airflow system shall be monitored via
        instrumentation and direct observation.

      • Monitoring/certification/repair and maintenance of biohazard cabinetry by qualified and nationally certified personnel (Note:  50 units
        mostly comprised of Class II Type A2 Biological Safety Cabinets) in accordance with national standards that include but are not limited
        to NSF Standard 49, and manufacturer's specifications.

      • Operation of the Thermal Effluent (Sewage) Processes (Building 102) performing biological decontamination with assurance of efficacy of
        treatment process in accordance with New York State permits requirements and conditions.

      • Operation, maintenance, calibration, and inspection of Plum Island’s 3 pathological waste incinerator systems according to New York
        State permit requirements and conditions.

      • Maintenance and annually test the performance of interior and barrier airlocks (Note: approximately 20 airlocks), including chemical
        decontamination systems and animal isolation rooms including corridors and necropsy areas (Note:  approximately 60), in accordance with
        local procedures.

      • Maintenance and annual performance testing of perimeter air-gasketed emergency exit door systems (approximately 12 doors) in accordance
        with PIADC program requirements.

      • Monitoring/certification/repair and maintenance autoclaves and steam sterilizers (Note:  approximately 40 units) and other
        decontamination systems (fixed and mobile) in accordance with manufacturer's and Plum Island program requirements.

      • Maintenance, repair and certification/assurance of additional building components and systems:  stack vent filter systems,
        biocontainment area drain traps, air intake damper and louver systems, hygienic cycle laundry machines, building structure integrity
        checks (crack sealing).

 In regard to the biological safety programs, the Contractor shall perform the following services:

      • Waste material management including the removal and disposal of waste material containing hazardous materials and/or radiological
        contaminated materials produced within biocontainment facilities requiring biological decontamination for exit with assurance of
        efficacy of process.

      • Biological decontamination of materials, equipment and vehicles within and from PIADC biocontainment areas including animal transfer
        trailers using approved methods (i.e., autoclave, gaseous fumigation, and liquid chemical applications), and management of the
        Facilities Biological Indicator Quality Control Laboratory.

      • Collection, processing, treatment and disposal of all regulated medical wastes generated including records and reporting requirement
        management.

      • White smoke testing and area decontamination to determine the integrity of biocontainment barriers.

      • Routine facility inspections to check for abnormal operation of equipment or abnormal conditions to maintain a safe, secure, and
        healthful work environment, to prevent release of pathogen and to minimize any disruption to the scientific mission from non-operational
        equipment.

      • In concert with the above, identification and reporting to the Security Control Center any abnormal personnel observations and physical
        security equipment deficiencies including, but not limited to unescorted visitors,  unlocked freezers, security hardware problems, etc.

      • Management of response personnel (e.g. HazMat or Biological) and maintenance of adequate amount of response equipment and support
        supplies. Replenish materials when depleted.

      • Coordination and conducting, using third party verification every 3 years, a complete facility safety inspection including
        identification and remediation of reported concerns.

      • Assist the Government Program Managers to complete annual inspections of the facility by Regulatory Agencies including validation
        activities of specific processes and equipment and permit renewals.

      • Custodial services (disinfecting cleaning) to laboratory areas including equipment and machinery areas in accordance with approved
        protocols.

      • Certification/Assurance that all biocontainment related alterations, fabrications, installation, and maintenance including the repair of
        plumbing, steam, water distribution systems are in accordance with national and local standards for biohazard laboratory operations.
The Contractor shall be responsible to complete and submit the following deliverables and reports as defined below to the PIADC Safety & Health
Office:
      • Class II Biological Safety Cabinet Certification Reports (each cabinet – incidental whenever moved, repaired, or certified)
      • Paraformaldehyde Usage Reports (incidental)
      • Transfer Case Testing Reports (monthly)
      • In-Place Filter Test Certification Reports (incidental)
      • Autoclave Certification Test Reports (incidental)
      • Calibration Reports for RMW Treatment Autoclaves (annual)
      • PIADC Annual Facility Inspection Summary Report (annual)
      • Biological Indicator Test Reports (incidental)
      • Building 102 Thermal Treatment Validation and Challenge Test Reports (incidental)
      • Building 102 Batch Tank Release Reports (incidental)
      • Regulated Medical Waste Processing Log Reports (quarterly)
      • Airlock/Pass-Box Decontamination Log Report (quarterly)
      • Directional Airflow Checklist (daily)
      • Weekly Inspection Checklist for Regulated Medical Waste Processing Areas (combined reports to be submitted to the Safety Office monthly)
         o Autoclave Room 142
         o Shredder Room 152
         o Autoclave Room 144
      • Autoclave Run Logbook (annually)
      • Building 100 BSL-2 Laboratory Janitorial Maintenance Checklist (weekly)
      • Virkon-S Disinfectant Checklist (Buildings 101 and 102) (quarterly)

           4.1.1 Animal Room Maintenance


      The Contractor shall ensure that PIADC Animal Isolation Rooms including associated corridors, storage areas and Necropsy Suites are
      routinely inspected, performance tested and repaired with preventive maintenance activities appropriately scheduled and performed in a
      timely manner, ensuring the capability for maintaining biological integrity of the rooms while providing a physically safe, aesthetically
      pleasing and secure environment for research animals housed therein.


      The O&M Contractor shall participate in the semi-annual PIADC Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) by providing a
      representative to accompany the tour(s) in order to respond to inquiries from the inspectors, to note where maintenance is required, and to
      quickly coordinate any immediate repairs that the inspection team has identified for immediate action.


      Inspections and maintenance activities are to be scheduled with the DHS Attending Veterinarian and Animal Caretaker Foreman and
      accomplished normally when rooms are vacant.  Upon completion of these activities, the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of
      Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) Checklist (TE-11) will be completed and submitted to the DHS Science Lead, Animal Care Veterinarian, Animal
      Care Supervisor, and Biological Safety Officer.


      Activities scheduled and performed include, but are not to limited routine maintenance, renovations and repairs and those tasks identified
      elsewhere in this Statement of Work and those listed below:
             • White Smoke Testing
            • Pressure Decay Testing (only when directed by the DHS Facility Engineer and Biosafety Officer)
            • Particulate and Biological Air-Filter Changes
            • Preparation of surface and final coating (painting, sealing) including, but not limited to floors, walls, ceilings, metal gates
              and doors.


      The Contractor shall perform routine inspection, repairs, renovations and maintenance on all animal isolation rooms, corridors, storage
      areas and necropsy suites in accordance local protocols and “Guide for the Care and Use of Agricultural Animals in Agricultural Research
      and Teaching”, a Federation of Animal Science Societies publication and “Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals”, a National
      Research Council publication and upon the direction of the DHS Attending Veterinarian and Animal Caretaker Foreman.


      Maintenance shall include, but not limited to:
            • Ensuring that all metal components (rails, gates) are in proper working order and not bent or twisted, allowing for proper
              movement and closure.  Hinges, chutes, automatic animal waterers, and handles are lubricated as appropriate.
            • Metal doors and other metal surfaces shall be free of rust with no jagged or sharp edges and finished with appropriate coatings
              and paint where applicable.
            • All painted and coated surfaces must be non-porous and sealed.
            • All non-structural components must be secured and in good working condition (gates, chains, locks, shelves, boxes, feeders, and
              watering systems including filters, hoses and automatic animal waterers.
            • All particulate air filters shall be changed at least weekly.
            • Air balance, humidity, directional airflow, temperature, air exchanges and humidity must be monitored and maintained in accordance
              with local protocols.
            • External support equipment and systems for rooms must be maintained on schedule with internal system and room maintenance.
            • Walls, floors, and ceilings in these rooms shall be maintained free of cracks, peelings and porous surfaces.  Wall and ceiling
              paint/coatings will be an epoxy base type; floor surfaces shall be finished with epoxy based type surfacing, containing quartz or
              sand particles to ensure safe footing when wet.
            • Hardware for pipes, doors, and faucets shall be of the prescribed type, in proper working condition, and items such as door and
              faucet handles must turn in the appropriate direction with minimal force.
            • Showers shall be clean and in proper working condition with soap dishes free of paint and rust and well fastened to the walls.
            • All electrical equipment shall be of the approved type for wet locations and shall protect from electrical shock through ground
              fault interrupters (GFIs).  This equipment should be in proper and safe working condition and free of cracks and defects; all
              light bulbs will be replaced when burnt out.
            • Air gasketed doors shall be leak free, with door frames free of rust at all times; inflating mechanisms must be fully operational,
              leak free, with handles turning with minimal pressure.
            • Clothing racks shall be positioned no higher than six feet from the floor and shall be fastened to the wall; broken clothing hooks
              shall be replaced.

      The O&M Contractor shall renovate Animal Rooms, Corridors, Storage Areas and Necropsy Suites as requested by the Contracting Officer
      Technical Representative (COTR) and as necessary approved by the Contracting Officer (CO).  The Contractor may be required to design plan
      and document projects and receive Contracting Officer approval before work begins.  The Contractor shall perform the following services:
            • Removal of gates, animal feed chutes, waterers, plumbing, lights and outlets, animal chutes and feeders.
            • Installation of gates, animal chutes, waterers, plumbing, electrical lights and outlets, feed chutes, and feeders.
            • Relocating gates, animal chutes, waterers, plumbing, electrical lights and outlets, feed chutes, and feeders.

      The O&M Contractor shall repair room surfaces, equipment, plumbing and showers, electrical light fixtures, and outlets, heating,
      ventilation, air conditioning, and other air handling, balancing and filter equipment, doors, gates, waterers and feeders as required in
      all areas.  The Contractor shall perform the following services:
            • Repair cracks, holes, peeling and slick or worn surfaces in floor coverings and other painted surfaces such as walls and ceilings.
            • Removal of asbestos containing materials in accordance with applicable regulations (NYS Department of Labor Code 56).
            • Repair and replace showers, wash downs, and waterers and/or associated plumbing as required.
            • Repair or replace doors and/or their associated hinges, handles, gaskets, and/or inflation lines and valves and handles as
              required.
            • Repair or replace animal feeders and feed chutes as required.


      4.2   Water Plant

The Contractor shall maintain, operate, and monitor the PIADC potable water purification system, facility ground water wells, treatment,
pumping, storage, and distribution systems to provide safe, reliable, continuous, consistent, adequate potable water 24 hours per day, 7 days
per week, throughout the year (for human and animal consumption).  There are 14 wells,  a treatment and pump building, treatment tank, two
transfer pumps, chlorine injection system, hydrated lime mixing tank, 200,000 gallon water tower, cathodic protection system, and distribution
throughout the Island.  There is one well at Orient Point.  The potable water and distribution system on Plum Island shall specifically meet all
the requirements of the NY State Department of Health Sanitary Code for a Nontransient Noncommunity Water Supply System.  Operational sampling
and tests shall be performed daily in accordance with NY State requirements.  All off site independent laboratory testing shall be complete and
performed and submitted on schedule.  All back flow preventers are to be tested annually in accordance with NY State requirements.

Specifically, at a minimum, the following items are required to be completed and results submitted to the EPO and applicable regulators:
      • Routine water-quality testing in accordance with applicable State and County regulatory requirements.
      • Back-flow prevention inspections and reports.
      • Monthly and annual water and chemical usage reports.
      • Annual water-storage tower inspection and report.
      • Facilitate quarterly inspections by County and Annual inspections by State.
      • Maintain supply wells and wellhead protection.

The Contractor shall also maintain and operate supplementary softened, de-mineralized, and distilled water for boilers, clean steam, and
laboratory purposes delivered in the quantities demanded and at the correct technical parameters.


The Contractor shall maintain and operate cathodic protection system for the water tower.


      4.3   Liquid Effluent Decontamination Plant

PIADC heat treats all liquid effluent originating within containment Buildings 101 and 102.  Waste water from containment spaces is collected,
held, moved, and processed through the thermal treatment system for decontamination prior to being pumped to the wastewater treatment plant
(WWTP).  Both Buildings 101 and 102 are BSL-3 containment spaces.

Sewage is collected from below grade spaces in Building 101 in a 10,000 gallon tank, and is pumped to a higher tank to combine with sewage
flowing by gravity to building 102.  The Contractor shall process the sewage in Building 102 using a continuous flow system as the normal
method.  The sewage enters the building and flows through comminutors to one of two 5000 gallon receiving tanks.  It is then pumped to one of
three 30,000 gallon holding tanks, which are pumped through one of two continuous processing systems, each consisting of eight (8) heat
exchangers, 1 steam booster, a 2500 foot heat retention loop, and discharge pumps. One holding tank per week is normally cleaned to remove and
discharge accumulated sludge.  The minimum temperature shall be maintained to discharge to the WWTP. The Contractor shall provide validation and
challenge test services for the Building 102 Sewage Effluent Facility Thermal Biological Decontamination Systems in accordance with NYSDEC Part
360-17.5(b) using PIADC protocols as follows:
      • Validation Testing:
         o For both Continuous Flow and Batch Process- As needed when changes or modifications of processing equipment and/or processing
           parameters are performed and for NYSDEC Permit renewal.
      •  Challenge Testing
         o Continuous Flow Process
               ▪ Monthly for both East and West Systems, with in-house processing and analysis of biological indicators.
               ▪ Semi-annually for both East and West systems, with independent laboratory processing and analysis of biological indicators.
         o Batch Processing
               ▪ Quarterly for all three holding tanks with in-house processing and analysis of biological indicators.
               ▪ Annually for all three holding tanks with independent laboratory processing and analysis of the biological indicators.

The Contractor must maintain and operate the process systems in Buildings 101 and 102 up to 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, through out the
year, based on the flow rate, to thermally decontaminate all liquid effluent generated within those buildings.  Daily flow is approximately
40,000 to 45,000 gallons normally, animal occupancy dependant.  The range is 25,000 to 50,000 gallons.  The Contractor shall have personnel
coverage available seven days a week who are capable of maintaining, validating, and operating the plant(s) in accordance with PIADC SOPs,
protocols, and guidelines.  Accurate records shall be kept to comply with NY State permits and requirements and provide proof of proper
operation.


      4.4   Waste Water Treatment Plant

The Contractor will maintain and operate the PIADC wastewater collection and activated sludge sewage treatment plant in accordance with the New
York State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (SPDES) Permit. The system was installed in 1994 and upgraded in 2004.  Contractor personnel
operating this plant must possess the appropriate New York State license and operate and maintain the Wastewater Treatment Plant within the
parameters defined by the SPDES permit (TE-6).  The plant consists of 5 pump stations, Parshall flume, equalization tank, over flow basin, two
vendor package treatment systems, separate clarifier, pump and aerator buildings, ultraviolet (UV) disinfection units, instrument manhole, four
(4) reed beds, and an office/laboratory.  All wastewater influent to this facility is treated prior to being discharged to Long Island Sound.
Normal flow rate varies between 50,000 and 80,000 gallons per day for a monthly average of 50,000 to 60,000 gallons per day.  All testing shall
be complete and performed on schedule.  Samples are taken and operational tests are performed on site daily; permit required laboratory tests
are performed by an independent vendor laboratory off site.  The Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) is prepared monthly by the operator, and
signed by the Environmental Protection Specialist for submission to NY State prior to the permit specified monthly deadline.  See Section 4.12
for Environmental Compliance Regulations.

      4.5   Salt Water Pump Station and Waste Water Heat Exchangers


The Contractor will operate and maintain the salt-water pump station and all related equipment. The water is used to cool decontaminated
wastewater from building 102 and for a salt water hydrant for fire fighting (backup).  The pump house is operated for most of the year based on
the temperature requirements at the waste water treatment plant.

The Contractor will operate and maintain the salt-water pump station at the Plum Island harbor for the purpose of cooling decontaminated
wastewater and to supply water to a salt water hydrant at Building 100 to provide supplemental water for fire fighting.   The pump house,
chamber, two 500 gallons per minute (gpm) pumps, one 1000 gpm pump, 3000 linear feet of piping, two heat exchangers, screens, zincs,
instrumentation, and controls are operated for most of the year based on the temperature requirements at the waste water treatment plant.  The
heat exchangers, instrumentation, and recorders are located in the basement of Building 101.

      4.6   Boiler Plant


The Contractor shall provide proper maintenance, operation, and monitoring of three (3) oil fired 500 HP Cleaver Brooks fire tube steam boilers,
associated systems, equipment, and building to provide safe, reliable, continuous, consistent, and adequate steam to requisite buildings 24
hours per day, 7 days per week, throughout the year.  These boilers went operational in September 2007 and are each capable of delivering 17,000
lbs of steam per hour.  They deliver 120 psi steam to Building 102 for continuous or batch processing of laboratory liquid waste, and to
buildings 100, 101, 102, 103, and 109 coils for applicable space heating, hot water generators, and autoclaves. Typically, two (2) boilers are
required in the winter, and one (1) in the summer.  Returned condensate is collected in a condensate receiver/ de-aerator tank with make up
water processed through a water softener.


The Contractor shall ensure that each boiler shall be inspected, tested, and certified annually for use in accordance with New York State
requirements by a qualified boiler inspection company.  Boiler chemistry shall be in accordance with boiler manufacturer’s requirements and
chemistry suppliers’ specifications at all times.  The boiler plant shall be continuously manned for maintenance, operations, and emergencies.
Operational logs, hand written or electronic shall be maintained.   The power plant shall hold, maintain, and up-date a library of applicable
system, operating procedures, drawings and technical manuals, to insure personnel have technical information available.

Fuel management is discussed in section 4.11.


      4.7   Chiller Plant

There are two (2) Carrier 500 Ton units installed in 1994, and two (2) Carrier 375 Ton units installed in 1997; all are high pressure
centrifugal chillers operating at 2400 volts, each with a dedicated cooling tower and pumps.  The refrigerants are R-22 and R-134a respectively.
 The chillers, primary chill water pumps, condensing water pumps, switch gear, cooling towers, and related gear are located in or adjacent to
Building 107.  The secondary chill water pumps will be installed within Building 101 by the 2010 cooling season. Chill water will be delivered
to Buildings 100 and 101 from the primary pumps and then sent throughout the building via a secondary system.

There is a computerized Carrier control system and a gateway interface for monitoring and trending the chiller system and chill water parameters
via the Siemens Building Automation System (BAS).

The Contractor shall maintain, operate, monitor and control the chill water plant and all its systems to deliver safe, reliable, consistent, and
adequate chill water 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, throughout the cooling season to Buildings 100 and 101.  The cooling season is
approximately from April to November.  The chiller and chill water systems need to be winterized in accordance with industry practices and
restored to service prior to the next cooling season.







      4.8   Heating, Cooling and Ventilation


           4.8.1 Buildings 100, 101, 102, and portions of 103 and 109 heated or cooled by the central heating (Power) and cooling (Chiller)
           plants

      The heating system functions throughout the year for either the full heat load, or the reheat of cooled air.  The cooling season functions
      for part of the year, approximately from April through November.

      The Contractor shall maintain, operate, and monitor existing heating, cooling, and ventilation systems to provide safe, reliable,
      continuous, consistent, and correct space conditioning 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, throughout the year as necessary.  The systems to
      be maintained and operated include both typical building systems, and laboratory and animal care systems with specialized bio-containment
      safeguards. Note: This includes electrically interlocked laboratory fume hoods which contribute to the overall ventilation profile.
      Reference Section 4.1 for more information


      Building 100 has a single roof mounted system that recycles a portion of the air for heating and cooling most of the space.  VAV boxes
      control the conditioning of the spaces via a Siemens Building Control System.  The BSL-2 laboratory and other laboratory interface areas
      have single pass supply and exhaust air systems.


      Building 101 has approximately 84 supply and 42 exhaust system air handling units or fans with a total single pass air flow rate of
      approximately 400,000 cubic feet per minute (cfm).  Supply and exhaust filters are to be changed as determined by differential pressure
      and/or normal maintenance.  Temperature and negative pressure within containment spaces shall be monitored continuously, and recorded daily
      where continuous monitoring is not available to insure system operability and directional air flow.  Controls vary from pneumatic dampers
      to variable speed drive motors referenced to outside ambient air pressure.


      Buildings 102, 103, and 109 are supplied with heat; only Building 109 has cooling to specific spaces via a separate system that falls under
      section 4.8.2.


      Heating and reheat coils are either steam or hot water.  The chill water system is only operational during the cooling season and
      winterized in colder periods.

           4.8.2 Buildings or spaces heated, cooled, or ventilated by systems other than the central heating (Power) and central cooling
           (Chiller) plants

      These systems can be oil or gas fired boilers or furnaces, steam, forced air, hydronic, heat pump, radiant, electric, DX, self contained,
      or other type of heating, cooling, or distribution system.  This section does not apply to walk in incubators which are covered under
      Refrigeration (section 4.9).  Not all buildings are heated or cooled.


      The Contractor shall maintain, operate, and monitor existing remote heating and cooling systems to provide safe, reliable, continuous,
      consistent, and adequate space conditioning 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, throughout the year as necessary or as specified by the CO,
      and in accordance with Federal, state, local, and DHS requirements.  The heating season is approximately 8 to 9 months of the year and the
      cooling season approximately 3 to 4 months of the year.  All building heating or cooling systems shall be available, clean, tested, and
      ready a minimum of 1 month before seasonal use.


      Annual inspections shall be accomplished prior to systems being put into seasonal service.


      The server room AC shall be functional 24/7 throughout the year to maintain the min / max temperature/humidity range.  The Contractor shall
      respond to system alarms within 5 minutes. The Contractor shall fix, repair, or stabilize such that the maximum room temperature is not
      exceeded.  The Contractor shall notify the appropriate persons if immediate repair is not possible.  There are two redundant APC units in
      the server room with air cooled condensers on the roof. These units are each 15 tons and must maintain the temperature at not higher than
      72 degrees with 30 to 50 % humidity in the server room. The units are currently under warranty and kept up on a service contract with
      operations and emergency response by PIADC HVAC Technicians.

      4.9   Refrigeration

This section applies to all facility refrigeration equipment using conventional and/or specialty refrigerants, including liquid nitrogen.  This
section also applies to walk in incubators since they are typically located adjacent to and are integral with lab walk in coolers.

The Contractor shall maintain, move, and operate all biological refrigerators, freezers, and walk in units including connections to the Building
Management System and alarm controls.  The Contractor shall work with the Government to maintain an accurate inventory of this equipment.
Currently, there are approximately 175 freezers (VPLN and mechanicals) and 50 refrigerators.  The Contractor shall ensure all are within their
normal operating range or the established set points as well as ensure each unit requiring an alarm is alarmed back to the central monitoring
station.  The Alarm system shall be functional at all times.  The Contractor shall respond to all emergencies and alarms within five minutes
during duty hours or ten minutes during non-duty hours.  The Contractor will not disconnect a unit from the alarm system without specific
approval of the Contracting Officer.

Liquid nitrogen shall be supplied, delivered, and distributed to those units that require liquid nitrogen as a cooling medium.  The Contractor
shall be responsible to supply the LN2 freezers and supply LN2 to the science program for laboratory work.  There is an approximately 6000
gallon storage tank in Orient Point.  The tank is rented and maintained by the owner.  The O&M Contractor is responsible for ordering LN2 when
required.

There are 5 portable LN2 “buggies” that range in capacity from 300 to 600 gallons. Those buggies are currently filled, transported to the island
and they replace an empty unit at one of three stations (four stations when the upgrades construction is complete at the end of 2010). The LN2
usage ranges from approximately 1200 gallons per week to 1800 gallons. Use is affected by the seasons (weather), FADD Schools and the scientific
program experiments ongoing at any time.

After duty hours, the freezer custodian identified on the freezer log sheet, alternate, or supervisor shall be notified of an out of range,
failing, or failed unit.  The Contractor will be responsible for providing regular surveillance (during business hours and off-duty hours) for
inventory within containment areas including refrigeration units.

      4.10  Electrical Distribution and Power Generation Services

The Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) supplies 15KV to a gated power and communications switch yard. Power is supplied to the island via two
undersea cables that feed a power plant and distribution system with both underground and overhead cables and normal distribution gear. This
system is backed up by three new 15KV Caterpillar stand by generators at 1820KW each through associated paralleling switchgear.  The generators
are automated to start on an outage, parallel, and pick up load within 30 seconds; return to utility power is manual via closed transition.

There are three LIPA feeds to the Orient Point Facility and a 65 kW stand by generator with an automatic buss transfer switch that feeds the
entire facility except for shore power to the boats

The Contractor will maintain and operate the electrical distribution system and equipment and standby power generation equipment to provide
safe, reliable, consistent, and adequate electrical power 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, throughout the year.

The Contractor will install, relocate, maintain and replace motors, conduit, light fixtures, outlets and other necessary building, laboratory,
and electrical equipment in accordance with the needs of the facility.

The Contractor will have trained and qualified personnel available on the island 24 hours a day throughout the year to perform routine and
emergency services, from normal operations to power outages, power company (LIPA) critical days, unstable weather, or any other situation where
power is interrupted or otherwise unavailable. All work shall conform to applicable Federal, state, and local codes and the National Electric
Code. The on shift electrician must be able to respond to the power plant in the event of an emergency or other incident.

The Contractor shall operate and maintain uninterruptible power supplies (UPS’s) on the island to ensure continuous power is supplied to the
required loads.

      4.11  Fuel and Oil Management


The Government purchases ferry, vehicle and bulk fuel oil for boilers.  The Contractor is responsible for all aspects of petroleum fuel
management including establishing and implementing a schedule for inspecting, maintaining, and repairing all petroleum storage facilities and
systems to ensure safe and reliable delivery, transfer, storage, and use; and, continuous fuel service to vessels, crematories, boilers, heating
systems, and emergency generators at PIADC 24 hours a day, every day of the year.  All petroleum use, storage, and maintenance of petroleum
facilities must be performed in a manner, and on a schedule, consistent with applicable Federal, state and local regulatory requirements.  The
Contractor is responsible for all operations and maintenance of tanks, piping and appurtenances including piping, secondary piping, secondary
containment pads; including but not limited to cleaning, rust-removal, and painting. These facilities are inspected at least annually by
federal, state, and local regulators.  These include but are not limited to:
      • 40 CFR 112 (USEPA);
      • Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA 90) including 40 CFR 112 et al;
      • Article 12 of the New York State Navigation Law;
      • Title 6 New York Codes, Rules and Regulations Part 610 (6 NYCRR 610);
      • Suffolk County Department of Health Services Article 12;
      • New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) Petroleum Bulk Storage/Major Oil storage Facility requirements;
      • PIADC’s Facility Response Plan/Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (FRP/SPCC) plan as required by EPA's FRP rule 40 CFR 112;
        and,
      • 33 CFR 154 (United States Coast Guard or USCG).


The Contractor will manage, maintain, and inspect all leak detections systems, monitoring systems, and alarms, including but not limited to
performing and submitting the following reports:
      • Performing weekly inspections and reporting for fuel dispensers, above-ground fuel tanks (ASTs), underground fuel tanks (USTs), and tank
        farm.
      • Performing monthly inspections and reporting for truck fuel-loading rack, ASTs, USTs, tank farm and boiler/generator day tanks.
      • Performing bi-annual sampling and analyses of groundwater samples from four on-site groundwater monitoring wells at tank farm.
      • Performing annual pipeline pressure test and reports.
      • Performing 10-day diesel and gasoline use reconciliation statements.
      • Monitoring and record storm-water discharge from tank farm secondary containment system.
      • Completing fuel barge delivery inspection checklists.
      • Perform other functions as new policies, procedures and regulations dictate.


           4.11.1      Petroleum Delivery, Transfer, and Facility Maintenance

      There are underground storage tanks (USTs) and above ground storage tanks (ASTs) on Plum Island and at PIADC’s Orient Point facility.  Some
      of the tanks are filled by the O&M Contractor and some are filled by outside firms that are contracted directly to the Government.
      However, the Contractor is responsible for measuring, reporting and informing the Government Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative
      (COTR) when a tank filled by an outside contractor reaches 50% capacity, or when the O&M Contractor is aware of an upcoming need for fuel
      outside normal operating parameters.  When the Contractor informs the Government COTR that fuel is needed, the Government COTR will arrange
      for fuel to be delivered and the Contractor will oversee the delivery.  The Contractor is responsible for tracking and keeping the
      Government informed at al times of the status of petroleum fuels at PIADC. In addition, the Contractor will prepare a monthly fuel report
      that includes usage and storage status to the Government COTR and Environmental Protection Office.


      The Contractor is responsible for filling certain ASTs and USTs using the PIADC fuel truck, which is filled at a loading rack located at
      the tank farm.  For the Orient Pont facility, the fuel truck is transported to Orient Point using the Government ferries.  Use of the fuel
      truck requires a Commercial Drivers License and site-specific training.  The following ASTs and USTs are currently in operation at PIADC:

                 4.11.1.1    On Plum Island


                  • Three 210,000-gallon ASTs for No. 2 fuel oil located at the tank farm.  These are filled via a marine fuel tanker contracted
                    directly to the Government.  The Contractor is responsible for receiving the tanker and ensuring safe delivery of the fuel
                    from the tanker, through the fuel-oil pipeline, and to the tank farm.  This is done is strict accordance with United States
                    Coast Guard (USCG), US Environmental Protection Act (USEPA), NYSDEC, and Suffolk County Department of Health Services (SCDHS)
                    regulations. These regulations are detailed in the FRP/SPCC plan and require oversight and operation by qualified, trained
                    individuals.  In a typical year, PIADC receives approximately five marine tankers of fuel containing 200,000 each.
                  • One 4,000-gallon UST located near the Plum Island Harbor and dispensed via a fuel pump to PIADC and Contractor vehicles.
                    This UST is filled by an outside firm contracted directly to the Government.  The Contractor must track fuel volume and
                    notify the Government when a delivery is needed.  The Contractor will then receive delivery.
                  • One 1,000-gallon diesel UST located near the Plum Island harbor and dispensed via a fuel pump to PIADC and Contractor
                    vehicles.  This UST is filled by an outside firm contracted directly to the Government.  The Contractor must track fuel
                    volume and notify the Government when a delivery is needed.  The Contractor will then receive delivery.
                  • One 1,000-gallon No. 2 fuel oil UST, used to feed a PIADC crematory (Building 101), that the Contractor is responsible for
                    filling.
                  • One 2,500-gallon No. 2 fuel oil UST, used to feed two PIADC crematories (Building 101), that the Contractor is responsible
                    for filling.
                  • One 1,000-gallon No. 2 fuel oil AST, used for heating at a remote building (Building 59), that the Contractor is responsible
                    for filling.
                  • One 500-gallon No. 2 fuel oil AST, used for heating at a remote building (Building 38), that the Contractor is responsible
                    for filling.
                  • One 500-gallon used oil AST that fuels a waste-oil burner used to heat Building W (warehouse).
                  • Three 160-gallon ASTs (day-tanks) in the Power Plant used for operation of each of the three boilers.  These tanks are
                    automatically fed from the tank farm but do occasionally require manual filling.
                  • Three 220-gallon ASTs (day-tanks) in the Power Plant used for operation of each of the three emergency generators.  These
                    tanks are automatically fed from the tank farm but do occasionally require manual filling.


                 4.11.1.2    At Orient Point


                  • Two 1,000-gallon No. 2 fuel oil USTs used for heating of the Orient Point Administrative Building and Warehouse,
                    respectively, that the Contractor is responsible for filling.
                  • One 530-gallon tank AST built into an emergency generator that must be filled and maintained by the Contractor as needed.

           The Contractor is responsible for scheduling and accepting delivery of marine fuel for the PIADC fleet.  Ferries receive fuel at the
           Orient Point Harbor from a fuel truck contracted directly to the Government.


           The Contractor is responsible for ordering; accepting deliveries, and storage of motor oils, lube oils and other petroleum products
           necessary for facility operations and maintenance.  All petroleum products must be transported, stored and used according to
           procedures and regulations.  There are several modular buildings and rooms for the storage of new and used petroleum products.  Waste
           oils are stored in registered facilities and transferred to a used oil tank in Building W (Tech Warehouse).  The used oil is mixed
           with No 2 fuel oil and burned in a “waste-oil” heater to provide heat to Building W when needed.  The Contractor is responsible for
           proper transport and off-site recycling of used oil that cannot be burned in the waste oil heater.


           All petroleum spills will be addressed following procedures outlines in the PIADC SPCC/FRP (as required by EPA's FRP rule 40 CFR
           112).  Upon discovery, the Contractor will respond immediately to prevent further release and begin cleanup procedures. The
           Contractor will immediately notify the PIADC Control Center security officer, who will subsequently notify the PIADC Qualified
           Individual (QI) identified in the SPCC/FRP.  The QI will determine if the spill is reportable to the Federal or state Government
           according to regulatory reporting requirements.  The QI will determine if a spill is too large for the Contractor to address with on-
           sire resources alone; and, if outside support is needed to assists in remediating the spill.  As required by law, the Government
           contracts directly with an outside Oil Spill Response Organization (OSRO).  The Contractor will not make any spill notifications to
           regulatory agencies and are not authorized to initiate response by the OSRO.


      4.12  Waste Management

           4.12.1      Hazardous and Universal Waste Management


      The Contractor will manage the collection, handling, recording, and disposal of all universal and hazardous waste at PIADC in accordance
      the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and other applicable NYSDEC, USEPA, Suffolk County, or other environmental regulations.
      PIADC generates approximately 2.5 to 3.5 tons of hazardous waste per year.


      All satellite accumulation areas (SAA) will be inventoried and inspected on a weekly basis.  Accumulated waste will be removed from the
      SAAs, biologically decontaminated, and transferred to the hazardous waste and universal waste storage areas as appropriate.  The Contractor
      is responsible for scheduling pickup, transport and disposal of hazardous and universal waste within regulatory time frames.  Information
      pertaining to all waste disposable facilities to which PIADC wastes are sent must be obtained, updated at least annually, and provided to
      the PIADC Environmental Protection Office (EPO) and biosafety office.


      The Contractor must stock and make available all appropriate and compatible containers, labels or other materials for the accumulation and
      storage of liquid and solid hazardous and universal waste.


      The Contractor will maintain all records, inspections, reports, manifests, and deliver them to the PIADC EPO.


      In addition, the Contractor will perform and report to the EPO on the following specific tasks:
            • Weekly inspections of SAAs, universal waste accumulation area, and hazardous waste accumulation area.
            • Monthly inspection and stocking of hazardous materials spill response equipment.
            • Monthly hazardous and universal waste accumulation report.
            • Ensure proper completion of hazardous and universal waste manifests, land disposal restriction forms,  packing  lists,  and  other
              shipping forms.

           4.12.2      Solid (Municipal) Waste Management


      The Contractor will manage the collection, separation, handling, recording, and disposal of all non-hazardous solid (municipal) waste,
      including incinerator ash.  When removing municipal waste and ash generated within bio-containment, the wastes will be biologically
      decontaminated according to written, approved procedures.  The Contractor is responsible for contracting with licensed (Part 360) outside
      waste haulers and disposal facilities for all off-site disposal and recycling.

      Incinerator ash is biologically decontaminated and sampled for Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP) Metals prior to off-site
      disposal.  The Contractor will collect analytical samples, obtain disposal approval from the PIADC EPO, and arrange for off-site transport
      and disposal following the SOP for the Sampling and Analysis of Ash from West and East/Orient Incinerators.

      The Contractor is responsible for making arrangements with a licensed waste hauler for all off-site transport and disposal of waste. Food
      waste generated at PIADC is to be transported directly to an off-site incinerator and not directed to a transfer station or landfill.

      All cafeteria generated food wastes including those generated from and decontaminated from Buildings 101 and 102 are to be disposed of by
      off-site incinerator.

      The Contractor will develop and maintain an aggressive recycling program to include all practical recyclable materials including but no
      limited to plastic, glass, aluminum cans, paper, cardboard, and scrap metal.  Compostable materials will be maintained in a composting
      program, with the resulting material used for landscaping purposes.

      Monthly reports of accumulation and disposal of recycled material, broken out according to type, and monthly municipal waste disposal
      reports must be completed and provided to the PIADC EPO.

      On an annual basis, PIADC generates approximately 60,000 to 100,000 pounds of solid municipal waste (general trash); and, recycles
      approximately 15,000 to 30,000 pound of paper/cardboard, 3,000 to 8,000 pounds of plastic, glass, and aluminum cans, and varying amounts of
      scrap metal.

           4.12.3      Regulated Medical Waste Management

      On an annual basis, PIADC generates approximately 25,000 pounds of regulated medical waste (RMW).  The Contractor will manage the
      collection, separation, handling, recording, storage, and disposal of all regulated medical wastes (RMW) generated at the PIADC.  When
      removing RMWs generated within bio-containment, the wastes will be biologically decontaminated according to written, approved procedures.
      The Contractor is responsible for contracting with licensed (Part 360) outside waste haulers and disposal facilities for all off-site
      disposal of RMW.  RMW waste removal/disposal activities are to be coordinated with the PIADC Biological Safety Officer and PIADC EPO.

      Monthly reports of accumulation, processing, and disposal must be completed and provided to the PIADC Biosafety Officer.  In addition, the
      Contractor will perform and report to the PIADC Biosafety Officer on the following specific tasks:
            • Weekly inspections of RMW processing and storage areas.
            • Annual calibration reports for RMW treatment autoclaves.
            • Ensure proper completion of RMW manifests and other shipping forms.
            • Track and solicit delinquent RMW manifests not received from the disposal vendor.

           4.12.4      Energy Conservation


      PIADC is committed to reducing greenhouses gas emissions and limiting adverse environmental impacts through energy conservation.  The
      Contractor will develop when appropriate, and implement when approved, energy conservation initiatives as dictated by Executive Order
      (E.O.) 13423 – Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management.  The Contractor will seek to reduce electric and
      fuel consumption; and, maintain and operate PIADC buildings, facilities, and transportation in a resource-efficient, sustainable, and
      economically viable manner, consistent with PIADC’s mission.

           4.12.5      Air Pollution Control


      The Contractor shall monitor all existing air emission sources to maintain compliance with PIADC’s State Facility Air Permit (draft
      available upon request), and if required, evaluate the impact of additional air emission sources that may arise during future operations.
      Specifically, the Contractor shall operate and maintain records regarding PIADC’s three incinerators to ensure compliance with the State
      Facility Air Permit including the following:
            • Complete annual incinerator inspections and calibrations and provide reports to the EPO.
            • Provide and maintain appropriate incinerator operator and opacity reader training to all applicable Contractor staff and provide
              certifications to the EPO.
            • Record and maintain all incinerator operating parameters (e.g. temperature & maintenance logs, material burn logs, etc.) required
              by the State Facility Air Permit and provide to the EPO on monthly basis.
            • Develop and maintain SOPs for incinerator operation and record keeping.
            • Complete opacity observations during incinerators burns and provide opacity logs to the EPO.

           4.12.6      Sanitary Waste Water


      The Contractor shall operate the sanitary waste-water system in compliance with the existing SPDES permit (TE-6) and applicable County
      regulations.  Specifically, at a minimum, the following items are required to be completed and results submitted to the EPO and applicable
      regulators:
            • Routine waste-water sampling in accordance with the SPDES permit.
            • Preparation and submittal of monthly SPDES Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) to the EPO.
            • Preparation of annual water-treatment chemical usage report.
            • Facilitate quarterly inspections by County and Annual inspections by State.


           4.12.7 Pesticide Applicator License

      The Contractor needs to maintain pesticide applicator licenses from NY State (3A and 9) for the company and for individuals.  This is to
      conduct a weed control management program and for using the formaldehyde in the airlocks.

      4.13  Crematories


The Contractor maintains and operates three PIADC animal crematories located inside Building 101.  They are operated in compliance with 6NYCRR
219-4.  Typically both the crematories operate on average 1 day per week, for 8 hours, throughout the year.  Animal Care personnel charge
biological material, animal carcasses (whole or part), feed, and bedding into the crematories.  Hazardous materials and radiological wastes are
not incinerated.  The incineration process shall be operated to insure permit required information is properly and adequately recorded, minimum
temperatures are met, opacity measurements have been taken and verified to meet regulatory requirements. Material charged into an incinerator is
to be thoroughly and completely consumed. All incinerator operations will be documented in a log showing: operator, date, time, temperatures,
type of waste material burned, weight, tag number, and fuel consumption.  The logs and temperature charts and/or electronic data will be
available for review by the Environmental Protection Specialist and NY State regulatory agencies, and maintained for a minimum number of years
yet to be determined.  Modification of an incinerator or its systems will be done only with the written approval of the Facility Engineer and
the PIADC Biological Safety Officer. Fuel is supplied from underground storage tanks and piped into the incinerator spaces.  There is a Veder
Root system for fuel management.  The Contractor shall remove ash from the incinerators into the containment building, is transported within the
building to an airlock, and decontaminated to get it out of the building.  After testing for heavy metals, it must be removed from the Island to
an appropriate disposal site.


      4.14  Ancillary Systems and Components

The PIADC is a facility with many laboratories and equipment to support research and scientific study. To support the laboratory and facility
operation many support systems are required.

The O&M Contractor will be required to operate and maintain this equipment in a completely functional manner. Some duties are, but not limited
to having replacement tanks on hand, having replacement cartridges on hand, and having the ability to change out components of the systems at a
moments notice:
      • Compressed air systems
      • Propane systems
      • LN2 systems (see section 4.9)
      • CO2  systems
      • Distilled water systems








      4.15  Information Technology


The Information Technology (IT)/Communications infrastructure and systems at Plum Island are complex and continually evolving.  The O&M
Contractor personnel will augment and complement a team of federal IT staff and separately contracted information security personnel.  In
addition, DHS will require the Contractor to provide on a 24/7 basis a minimum of an on-call one (1) person response team to provide IT
troubleshooting/triage capabilities in the event of operational failures such as power outages.  Collectively the IT and communications team
must establish and maintain an effective, efficient, and compliant IT and communications infrastructure to support the PIADC mission and be
responsive to customer needs and expectations. Success will require an ability to establish and sustain close and collaborative working
relationships.


Potential vulnerabilities introduced through IT equipment and systems are tightly controlled in DHS, substantial effort is directed at
maintaining adequate security and configuration management.  Due to these considerations, the Contractor will not have the same degree of
autonomy for decisions that will exist in other areas of contract performance.  In addition, the expectation is that the Contractor will provide
support of the certification and accreditation (C&A) of systems including but not limited to; acting as system administrator and alternates,
support of Information Technology Review Board (ITRB) package processing, maintaining system security baselines, assisting with vulnerability
scanning, patching, with auditing systems and file back-up support. The Contractor will be responsible for ensuring that system back-ups are
accomplished as defined in each systems C&A, and for maintaining the back-ups at the offsite location as defined in PIADC’s agreement with
Brookhaven National Lab or BNL (TE-7).


PIADC will be adding new IT and Communications equipment, systems and supporting various facility and security upgrades during the period of the
contract.  Contractor IT staff will be expected to act as technical experts and provide recommendations to the Government for the selection of
new technology and for budget planning.  The Contractor shall also work with the Government to coordinate new hardware and software purchases;
this process will require ITRB approval prior to purchasing.


           4.15.1      IT Data Systems


      The PIADC facility is supported by multiple data networks (classified/unclassified), including the PIADC network, LAN A, Homeland Secure
      Data Network (HSDN), APHIS and others.  Each network serves different segments of the PIADC community; each group being served has its own
      unique organizational requirements as dictated by its parent organization.  Several of the existing networks are being redesigned to meet
      changing PIADC mission requirements; network support for these “new” networks may not be the same as for the existing infrastructure.
      Contractor IT staff will have to be flexible to meet these changing support requirements. In addition, the Contractor will be expected to
      support the introduction of additional networks and systems during the period of the contract.


      The Contractor is required to provide network, helpdesk, desktop, inventory, configuration, and life cycle management support including
      disposal and back –up support for approximately 350 computer systems and approximately 300 users. The Contractor will be responsible for
      providing and maintaining a helpdesk system that will allow users to identify their issues and allow IT staff to track user requests to
      resolution.  In addition, applications using Oracle and SQL databases require maintenance and updating. Currently web applications were
      created and are being maintained locally for such uses as helpdesk tickets and log entries.


      A significant portion of the current required network support is for the PIADC network.  The PIADC network uses Microsoft’s Active
      Directory for client and computer user management.  This system supports a wide variety of hosts using Windows, Macintosh and Linux
      operating systems. Network infrastructure, including servers, backup appliances, Storage Area Network (SAN), routers, switches, firewall,
      etc., is managed and maintained locally. The PIADC network is one of the systems currently being redesigned and upgraded. PIADC currently
      has a small wireless data network in Building 101, The Contractor should expect to support the existing network and phased expansion
      planned for implementation during the period of the project


      The Contractor shall train its staff as needed to adequately support existing requirements and when necessary to support new technology or
      changes to mission requirements including network upgrades.  It is especially important for the staff in this department to have refresher
      and upgrade training periodically in order to keep up with changes brought about by industry advances.  Contractor staff will provide end
      user training and support to the PIADC community and maintain equipment, cable and system records.


           4.15.2      Facilities Security System


      The Contractor is responsible for the installation, repair and maintenance of the PIADC Facility Security System to ensure system
      performance maintains compliance with the PIADC Security Plan.


      Facility Security System (FSS) is made up of a proprietary Access Control, CCTV Monitoring and recording, Wireless, Infrared, Microwave,
      and Photo Identification System with Access Control, Intrusion Detection System technology for Plum Island and Orient Point facilities.


      The major Electronic Security System (ESS) components are comprised of the following primary subsystems: Electronic Entry Control System
      (EECS), Intrusion Detection System (IDS), Closed Circuit Television System (CCTV), Digital Video Recording System (DVR) and Electronic Key
      Control System (EKCS).


            • Systems include both computer and electronic field components. (#’s are approximate)
            • 145 cctv cameras
            • 250 sensor devices
            • 105 card readers
            • 67 panel/controller devices / battery backup systems
            • ESS / EECS Server and Terminals
            • Badging Station
            • 20 video monitors
            • Cat 5 Cable, Fiber Optic and Wireless Network Communications Connections
            • Switches, multiplexers, and related peripheral devices

      Upgrade of the FSS network is projected for 2010; the upgrade will substantially change the system including FIPS compliance.  The
      Contractor will be required to support this project as requested.  In addition, Contractor support will be required for the implementation
      of changes required as part of complying with Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12. Technicians will need additional training
      to adequately support the upgraded network.


      The Contractor is also responsible for repair and maintenance of the Electronic Security Log and responding, as appropriate, to the
      Security Trouble Ticket program.


      Implementation and development of a FSS preventative maintenance, tracking and trending system with an objective of performance testing
      every security device within a one-year period is desired.


           4.15.3      Building Management System


      The PIADC’s Building Management System (BMS) is a pre-apogee Landis and Gyr (Siemens) system with components of wide variety installed
      throughout the campus (Buildings 100, 101, 107,109, etc.).  This system provides direct digital control and monitoring of HVAC and
      environmental controls, Bio-Freezers, electrical systems, room pressure differentials etc. There are approximately 33 MBC (modular building
      controller) panels, all with pre-Apogee processors, making up the system. The system is supported directly by the Contractor staff and with
      subcontractor support.  Subcontractor support of the system is maintained in addition to on site staffing mostly to assure that parts are
      available for system components which are being phased out by Siemens. PIADC is planning a phased upgrade approach to upgrade the system
      beginning this year. The BMS will be expanded in to several additional facilities in the coming year including the new power plant, waste
      water treatment plant, and the new animal wing.


      PIADC is in progress with implementation of a Centron system for monitoring animal rooms and freezers at this time, the Contractor would be
      expected to support this product as well when installed.


      Technicians supporting these systems should have a general background which includes Industrial Computer Training and Heating, Ventilation
      and Air Conditioning (HVAC) and Siemens (Landis and Gyr) experience.  At a minimum Siemens training should be at least the Master Operators
      level, with the expectation that at least one technician will be trained at the Master Programmer level within 1 year. Additional
      technician training should be provided as needed in order support new or existing systems or in support of mission changes.

      4.16  Radio Systems


Radio systems at PIADC are used extensively in support of daily operations, exercise/training scenarios and for emergency response.  Systems
include Very High Frequency (VHF), Low Band Radio and Paging, Marine VHF Radios, Man-Down Radio Systems and a Wireless Data network. Government
will provide the radio equipment, and the Contractor will coordinate and manage maintenance and warranty work.  The Contractor to provide
coordination with applicable agencies required to manage radio frequencies licensing, vessel call signs and interagency agreements.


PIADC is in the process of purchasing radio equipment which will provide additional radio interoperability options.  This system will be
installed by an outside contractor, O&M Contractor personnel will be expected to support the installation and assist with the implementation of
the system and training of personnel.  Once installed and accepted O&M will provide ongoing support.  The Contractor will be equipment
manufacturer-trained where appropriate to adequately support existing equipment/systems and when necessary to support new technology or mission
requirements.  The Contractor will provide end user training and support.


           4.16.1      VHF Radio


      PIADC VHF radio network is Advanced Encryption Standards (AES) encrypted and Over the Air Re-keying (OTAR) capable. Contractor to provide
      operations and maintenance support for three Base Station/Repeaters w/ VHF frequency range 132-174MHz, Transmit Combiner, Receive
      Multiplexer, approximately 200 portable radios, 15 base station radios and 30 mobile radios. System also includes various supporting
      equipment including but not limited to; two computers used for radio configuration software and OTAR management, a microwave link between
      the water tower and Building 100, antennas and cabling, and UPS.  The Contractor will be responsible for maintaining the various antennas
      supporting the PIADC radio systems, antennas are mounted on buildings, roofs, vehicles, vessels and the water tower.  Antenna maintenance
      at the water tower will require the Contractor to provide a solution for reaching the antennas mounted on the legs of the tower, the
      highest are mounted at approximately 90 feet.  There will be substantial changes to the radio system during the contract period.


           4.16.2      Low Band Paging /Voice Radio


      PIADC Low Band Paging/Voice Radio System is used for interoperability purposes with Suffolk County Department of Fire, Rescue and Emergency
      Services Paging network.  Support is required for approximately 30 Minitor V pagers, a Link Tactical Communications Bridge, MC2000 Advanced
      Desktop Controllers, MC1000 Basic Desktop Controllers, and M/A-COM Orion Base Stations. System also includes various supporting equipment
      including but not limited to antennas (mounted on the water tower) and cabling, UPS, programming interface equipment and software.  This
      system is currently not operable or certified & accredited but may be restored to operation or replaced during the contract period


           4.16.3      Man-Down Radio System


      The Contractor is required to provide support for the Man-Down Radio System.  This System is made up of Grace Industry’s radios including
      Evacuator Communicator units, Super Cells with LCD Display, Micro Repeaters with AC Power, and T-PASS-II Motion units. The radios which
      operate in the 902-928 MHz frequency range are for use by personnel when working in isolated environments (such as Animal Care Staff,
      Decontamination Facility Personnel) to alert the Security Control Center in an emergency situation.  Monthly recurring maintenance is done
      on the animal care units to ensure operability.


      4.17  Telecommunications Systems/Services and Communications Infrastructure

Telecommunications services support is required on Plum Island and at the facilities at Orient Point. Varied components make up the
telecommunications architecture at PIADC.  The Contractor will provide operations and maintenance services to support existing phone systems
made up of Avaya PBX Telephone System and Audix Voice Mail System with approximately 600 Telephones (analog, digital and BRI combined), faxes,
several secure telephone equipment (STE) with approximately 25 fax units, approximately 100 blackberries, several secure mobile phones and
satellite phones, intercom and various other telephone equipment.

Due to the age of the communications infrastructure in many of the facilities in use by PIADC staff, PIADC IT and Telecommunications Support
staff is involved in many projects to expand and upgrade the services available to PIADC personnel.  As part of these initiatives the Contractor
should expect to support the installation and maintenance of Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) phone services during the contract period.

The Contractor shall provide coordination required in support of Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) and Wireless Priority
Service (WPS) accounts. The Contractor shall furnish coordination required to ensure circuits delivered to PIADC meet operational requirements.


The Contractor shall provide end user training for Telecommunications systems as needed. Technicians will need additional training to adequately
support the upgraded telecommunications systems and infrastructure.


           4.17.1      Communications Infrastructure Support


      A key focus of the IT function has been and will continue to be to increase connectivity throughout the PIADC complex (bio-containment and
      support buildings on Plum and at Orient Point facilities).  The existing fiber and copper cable plant is inadequate to meet mission
      requirements. Expansion and upgrade of this system will require technicians to be proficient with inside and outside plant installation and
      maintenance. The existing infrastructure includes an aerial/underground/underwater, interior/exterior copper/fiber plant of various
      vintages.  The PIADC staff is currently at various stages of completion for several copper and fiber installations in support of this goal.
       The Contractor shall provide the following services and support:
            • Planned installation of a direct bury fiber cable to connect the water tower and Building. 100, (approximately ¾ of a mile of
              fiber)
            • Recent copper installation for the interior of the Power Plant
            • In progress phased installation of a fiber backbone to support Building 101.
      Staff providing this support should have appropriate training to adequately manage the communications infrastructure.

      4.18  Fire Alarm System


The fire suppression and alerting systems consist of approximately 25 – 30 panels and displays throughout the PIADC. Additionally, numerous
detectors, pull stations, duct and heat detectors are installed throughout the facility. There are currently five independent systems. The
system servicing Buildings 100 and 101 report back to a physically manned control center or central alarm system.  The remaining systems are
stand alone systems reporting locally. These additional systems service Building. 59, Building W, Building 103, and Building 109.  All of the
alarm systems are manufactured by Edwards System Technology (EST).  The Contractor will be required to obtain and maintain the required
certifications to work on all EST-3 and other fire and security alarm systems at PIADC.  While the alarm in Building 109 is locally situated,
there are plans to tie it into the Building 100 and 101 system in the future. The fire alarm system currently has a laptop computer used for
maintaining the system.  During the FSS upgrades project in 2010 the system will be upgraded to include a GUI interface.  The Contractor will be
required to provide support as needed during the system upgrades and to support IT Certification and Accreditation processing required once the
upgrade is complete. Technicians will need manufacturer approved-training in order to maintain the systems.  The Contractor will test and
certify the systems and maintain them in accordance with all applicable standards.


      4.19  Fire Suppression System

Fire suppression at the PIADC includes an assortment of Water Sprinkler, Carbon Dioxide and Clean Agent extinguishing systems.  All water based
extinguishing systems shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 13 for installations and NFPA 25 for inspections and
maintenance.  All carbon dioxide extinguishing systems shall be inspected/tested and maintained in accordance with NFPA 12.  Clean agent fire
extinguishing systems are to be tested and maintained in accordance with NFPA 2001.  Additionally, Marine Vessels with fixed fire suppression
systems shall also meet any applicable standards for USCG regarding those systems.

There is a Clean Agent (ANSUL) Fire Suppression system located in the kitchen of Building 100.  There is an FM-200 Clean Agent Fire Suppression
system installed in Building 103 servicing an underground electrical vault there.  There is a Clean Agent Fire Suppression system installed in
the Building 100 Computer Data Server and Security Control rooms.  The Marine vessels are equipped with fixed carbon dioxide extinguishing
systems in the engine rooms of each vessel.  The Contractor shall ensure all fire systems are tested, inspected and maintained in accordance
with applicable standards.

      4.20  Instrumentation and Control

The Contractor is responsible to support the many aspects of plant operations. The physical plant and its related support systems are controlled
by Instrumentation and Controls (I&C). I&C systems consist of (but are not limited to) BMS, Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) for various
operations, Uninterruptable Power Supplies (UPS) systems for backup power to critical component and other equipment that has automatic and
safety features

      4.21  Fire, Rescue and Emergency Medical Services

The Contractor will additionally provide for staffing, operations and maintenance for all fire, rescue and emergency medical services and
equipment.  All equipment shall be maintained in a condition of readiness and operability at all times in accordance with industry standards and
best management practices.  The PIADC has a fully equipped Fire and Emergency Management Services Department consisting of three Fire Engines
(two pumpers and one 75 foot ladder truck), two Ambulances, one Heavy Rescue and one Hazardous Material Response Trailer. These vehicles and the
support equipment contained in them will be part of the Government Furnished Equipment provided to the O&M Contractor (TE-4).

The Contractor will be responsible to assure fully trained and qualified staffing to safely and effectively respond to all credible emergency
condition or incidents.  The Contractor will be responsible to meet the obligations of the mutual aid agreement with Southold Town and Suffolk
County communities.


The Contractor shall provide all officers and firemen to safely and effectively respond to credible fires and other rescue and emergency
response situations 24/7 year-round at the PIADC facility.  A minimum pool of Contractor staff (including officers and firemen) shall be
qualified on a continuous basis to serve in the PIADC Fire Department:
      • The Contractor shall provide a minimum of eight (8) fully qualified and trained firefighters (with a minimum Firefighter I
        certification) during normal working hours.
      • The Contractor shall provide a minimum of six (6) fully qualified and trained firefighters (with a minimum Firefighter I certification)
        at all other times.
      • At least one of these individuals shall be certified as a fire officer.
      • All firefighters shall satisfactorily pass and maintain an annual physical and Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) mask fit test
        for PIADC firefighters.


It is understood that the fire department staffing may occur as a collateral responsibility of those providing other O&M services (excluding
other emergency response positions such as EMTs).


Additional Federal volunteer staff personnel may augment the fire department members above the minimum quantities described above.  The PIADC
DHS Fire Chief is responsible to coordinate and manage the participation of non-contractor personnel in the fire department.

The contactor will provide a minimum of one New York State or National Certified Critical Care Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) with BSL- 3
Lab unescorted access on a 24/7 basis. Waivers to this requirement can only be approved by the Director of Operations.  An additional EMT with
a minimum certification of EMT Basic shall be required during normal hours of operation and during hours where higher risk work is occurring
(e.g. heavy construction, Foreign Animal Disease School) based on the direction of the Director of Operations or his/her designee.


      4.22  Safety, Health, and Environmental Services


Contractor shall provide services to assist DHS in meeting Environment, Safety, and Health protection requirements for facility researchers.
Services will include assistance in managing chemical inventories, maintaining emergency equipment (skill kits), resolving other safety concerns
and issues raised by PIADC staff. Additionally during non-working hours the Contractor shall periodically walk through laboratory spaces and
animal rooms to identify and assist in the resolution of potential concerns (e.g. out of range freezer temperatures, system leaks, turning off
unnecessary lighting, etc).

      4.23  Buildings

The buildings on Plum Island and at Orient Point range in age from 1869 to 2009. A complete list is provided in TE-2. There is a historic
lighthouse that must be monitored and kept water tight to prevent damage. In order to provide a framework of how these different age buildings
are to be maintained, the following definitions apply:

|Level 1                    |Operationally and aesthetically maintained in excellent condition and appearance                          |
|Level 2                    |Operationally maintained in excellent condition, equal to or better than existing conditions              |
|Level 3                    |Operationally maintained and water tight                                                                  |
|Level 4                    |Exterior maintained and water tight                                                                       |
|Level 5                    |Abandoned, maintenance upon request                                                                       |

The Contractor will provide the manpower and services for the maintenance of the interior and exterior of PIADC Buildings.  Please refer to the
Equipment to be Maintained list (TE-3) for a list of items that the Contractor will be responsible for maintaining.

Note: The exterior walls and some interior walls of Buildings 101 and 102 are biological containment barriers and have special requirements.
This is further mentioned in section 4.1.

      4.24  Roads and Grounds

The landscaping at the Plum Island and Orient Point complexes must remain in an aesthetically pleasing state. The Plum Island and Orient Point
roads must remain passable at all times for general use, security patrol and emergency use to ensure a safe, reliable and secure infrastructure.

Plum Island Data:
      • Approximately 840 acres. A good portion of the island is unused other than for Security.
      • Approximately 7 acres that require mowing on a regular basis, and another 10 - 15 acres on a maintenance basis.
      • Approximately 30 acres of land developed for buildings and harbor use.
      • 4.2 miles of paved roadway
      • 8.3 miles of roadway composed of gravel/sand

The Contractor will provide the services for the maintenance of the PIADC road infrastructure and grounds maintenance, which includes the Orient
Point facility. Some of the required functions necessary are:
      • Landscaping, debris removal
      • Road repairs and maintenance, paved and unpaved
      • Painting
      • Sidewalk repairs and maintenance
      • Sign fabrication and installation; including but not limited to security beach signs and cable crossing signs.
      • Snow and ice plowing/removal
      • Maintain access to all equipment and occupied buildings on the island, such as application of salt/sand and shovel necessary walking
        areas
      • Maintenance of light wells within Building 101
      • Security perimeter
      • Maintain fire breaks
      • Excavation and trenching
      • Drainage control
      • Clear overhead distribution system, switch yards, fire hydrants, osprey platforms
      • Clear vegetation from aerial cables

      4.25  Transportation

The Contractor is responsible for safely and effectively managing and maintaining Government-furnished vehicles and marine vessels; and safely
transporting passengers to and from Old Saybrook, CT, and Orient Point NY.  All ground and marine transportation procedures and equipment must
be performed and maintained, respectively, according to industry standards, best management practices and Federal, state, and local regulatory
laws and requirements.

                 4.25.1     Marine Transportation

      The Contractor is responsible for the safe and reliable transportation of passengers to and from Old Saybrook, CT and Orient Point, NY,
      using the Government-owned ferries, which are currently the PLUM ISLAND, M.S. SHAHAN II, J.J. CALLIS, BLACKBURN.  Along with these
      passenger ferries, the Contractor is responsible for maintenance of the new Security Boat (Marine Alpha One), in accordance with all USCG,
      other Federal, state and local requirements; and, established PIADC Marine Transportation policies, procedures, and schedules (TE-9).

      Alteration to the marine transportation schedule and level of service is sometimes required to meet the mission and operational
      requirements or for incident response.  The Contractor shall be responsible to accommodate requests subject to the urgency, resource
      limitations, and regulatory requirements.


      The Contractor will maintain and repair above-named vessels as necessary and on schedule to keep them in proper operating condition.  All
      vessels will meet the minimum crew requirements as defined in the respective vessel's "Certificate of Inspection".

      The Contractor’s vessel captains have the responsibility to monitor weather and sea conditions to ensure passenger safety.  The Contractor
      will advise the Government when conditions are such that vessel operation, and passenger safety and comfort would be compromised and
      alternative schedules or suspension of ferry service is necessary.  After consulting with the Contractor and vessel captains, the
      Government may decide at times to suspend the normal work day entirely because of safety concerns.  The PIADC Director of Operations will
      need to be informed if ferry schedules for any reason need to be altered.

      U.S. Coast Guard inspections, shipyard repair, hull repair and maintenance, and overhaul periods will be the Contractor’s responsibility.
      The Contractor is responsible for obtaining replacement vessel(s) when necessary to ensure uninterrupted marine transportation service.

      In addition to mechanical and operable maintenance and repairs, the Contractor will perform janitorial duties and ensure vessels are clean
      and sanitary. Marine crews will keep passenger cabins clean, free from obstructions and will remove ice and slip/all hazards as needed to
      ensure safety.  General cleaning of surfaces, sides, interiors, and decks will be performed continuously.  Marine heads (toilets) will be
      inspected after each voyage and cleaned as needed, and no less than daily.  Supplies are to be available and restocked as needed.  Cabins
      and crew kitchens will be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary manner.  Trash will be removed after each shift or sooner if needed

      The Contractor is responsible for securing vessels in the event of adverse weather and sea conditions to prevent damage.  When docked at
      locations away from PIADC, the Contractor must ensure security precautions are taken to prevent fire, theft, damage or unauthorized
      boarding.


      The Contractor shall maintain agreements with the following vendors and manage vendor relationships as necessary.  The Contractor shall
      notify the Government if there are any issues or if and when these agreements will need to be re-negotiated.
            • Boat docking lease agreement at Old Saybrook Harbor with Harbor One Marina
            • Parking space leases in Old Saybrook with Harbor One Marina, Saybrook Point Inn, and Dock and Dine
            • Dock repair agreements at Orient Point and Plum Island with the USCG and other vendors


           4 25.2      Bus and Van Transportation


      The Contractor is responsible for transporting passengers from the ferries to Building 101 or other locations on an as-needed basis and as
      directed by the Government.  Ground transport services will be accomplished using vehicles that include, but are not limited to, government-
      owned buses and passenger vans.  Ground transportation will be readily available and convenient to and from Building 100 in conjunction
      with the ferry schedule.  At times, visiting persons or groups will necessitate additional trips or tours on the island.  The Contractor
      will ensure that additional ground transportation is readily available in the event a group of passengers exceed the bus capacity.

      Buses and vans will be kept clean and the Contractor will keep the comfort of passengers in mind at all times including ensuring air
      conditioning and heating are operable and on prior to boarding.  Vehicle operators will be properly licensed and will adhere to the PIADC
      rules of the road (including wearing of seat belts) and posted speed limits.


      Contractor staff that drive passenger vans and buses while transporting passengers shall have a valid/current commercial driver’s license
      (CDL).


    26.  Vehicles

With the exception of the vehicles listed on TE-3 and TE-4, the Contractor shall provide all vehicles necessary to perform duties under this
contract.  The Contractor will be responsible for maintaining all PIADC vehicles in proper material condition by performing maintenance
according to the manufacturer's schedule and, New York State and Government specifications.  The Contractor will perform routine maintenance and
repairs as necessary in accordance with industry standards and best management practices.




      4.27  Shipping and Receiving

PIADC ships and receives many types of products, animals, equipment, mail and other packages. These items must be distributed throughout the
facility and to the local post office.

The Contractor will receive, collect, process, and distribute all incoming and outgoing mail, packages and other deliveries. Tasks include, but
are not limited to:
     1. Process outgoing letter mail.
     2. Process and ship packages from PIADC personnel for any package carriers.
     3. Work with animal handlers to receive and deliver animals to the laboratory on Plum Island
     4. Receive and transport perishable biomedical supplies and reagents.
     5. Receive and distribute bulk liquid nitrogen.
     6. Drop off and pick up mail at the U.S. Post Offices in Greenport, NY and Orient, NY.
     7. Track packages that are sent from PIADC.
     8. Receive and inspect packages of all sizes from any carriers using such equipment such as x-ray baggage scanners.
     9. Sort and distribute incoming USPS mail, packages and delivered equipment.
    10. Deny delivery of visibly damaged packages.
    11. Adhere to SOPs concerning special packages such as Tracking and Shipment of Incoming Packages and Receiving Biological & or Radiological
        Packages for delivery to PIADC and PIADC Handling of Suspicious Mail/Packages Protocol”.
    12. Adhere to non-regular business hours procedures for delivery, storage, and transition of biological and other potential perishable
        hazardous materials.
    13. Ensure all shipping and receiving personnel are trained on an annual basis regarding the identification and response to suspicious
        packages.

The Contractor is responsible for the appropriate environmental storage for all perishable biomedical packages at the Orient Point Warehouse
until such time that they can be delivered to Plum Island and on Plum Island when packages cannot be delivered to the recipient.

           4.27.1      Dry Ice


      Dry ice is routinely used to ship perishable and biological specimens/reagents.  The typical demand is two (2) approximately forty five
      (45) pound blocks per week.  Additionally, two to three times per year larger volume shipments require approximately 62.5 cubic feet of dry
      ice nuggets (25 boxes with 2.5 cubic feet of dry ice nuggets per box).  The Contractor shall provide dry ice in various forms (block or
      nuggets) to meet these shipping requirements.  While DHS will strive to provide several days advanced notice, there is a degree of
      uncertainty in when shipments are required.  Therefore, the Contractor shall have processes in place to provide dry ice within one work day
      of notification (24 hours).


      The Contractor will be responsible to maintain and operate Government provided equipment for the safe storage of bulk and packaged dry ice
      material at the Orient Point Warehouse Facility for distribution upon request.  Dry Ice material will be packaged and transported to Plum
      Island in accordance applicable sections of 49 CFR Part 173.217 “Carbon dioxide, solid (dry ice)”.

      4.28  Laboratory Glassware

The PIADC scientific mission depends upon the ability to conduct their activities without disruption or interruption that could occur with
failure to process and distribute glassware. Glassware services include, but not limited to collecting, sorting, cleaning, sterilizing and
distributing/delivery glassware items.  Strict adherence to biological safety movement requirements for both glassware items and personnel must
be followed.


The Contractor will be responsible to manage and administer laboratory glassware services on Plum Island located within PIADC laboratories.
These services are sized with complexity similar in nature to a small hospital, university or research center setting and also include the
management of support automated glassware equipment such as batch and tunnel-type washing machines, batch-type dryers/sterilizers and
autoclaves/sterilizers located within Laboratory Building 101(BSL-3 Biocontainment Facility) and autoclaves and a automated scientific glassware
washer located in Building 100 (BSL-2 Laboratory).  All equipment shall be maintained in accordance to manufacturer's specifications with
autoclaves, sterilizers and batch type sterilizers certified for use using manufacturer's specifications.

PIADC Operations includes the use of approximately twenty (20) different types of facility provided glassware items (i.e., including but not
limited to reusable beakers, graduated cylinders, funnels, glass syringes, serum vials, bottles, flasks, glass pipettes, mortar and pestles,
tissue grinders and culture tubes) used/generated at various locations within Laboratory Building 101 and from scientific operations conducted
in the Building 100 BSl-2 Laboratory.  Ancillary glassware items include reusable stainless steel surgical instruments (i.e., scalpels, forceps,
canulas, spatulas, hypodermic needles); Teflon® coated magnetic stirring bars and disposable items (i.e., culture tubes and bottles).


Upon request, the Contractor will process orders from PIADC scientific staff for specialized glassware processing such as bleeding tubes and
flasks; media filling bells, and filtering flasks.


Glassware is required to be biologically decontaminated prior to being retrieved by the Contractor for processing.  All items will be retrieved
for processing so as not to allow the "build-up" of used items in the use areas, processed and returned to the individual user or management
group at specified "pick-up" points or re-stocked in the Glassware facility for later use.


The Contractor shall prepare and maintain an adequate inventory of all common use glassware items including special order items to avoid
shortages or over-supply. Items that exhibit chips, cracks or un-removable residue shall be removed from service and replaced.  Items that are
deemed obsolete or un-usable will be removed from service and not stocked. The Contractor shall process glassware orders from scientific staff
on a "first-in and first-out" basis with delivery to the "pick-up" site.  They must also be prepared to respond "real-time" to telephone or
"walk-in" requests for glassware items. The Contractor must be prepared to "ramp-up" operations to support additional personnel attending
special training activities conducted with the laboratory areas.


The PIADC scientific mission depends upon the highest quality of glassware items, therefore the Contractor shall be required to develop and
institute a quality control program to assure the sterilization integrity of each unit of glassware distributed to the scientific staff.


The Contractor is responsible to document the type and quantity of glassware that is washed and ordered.  The documentation shall be updated on
a daily basis and retained as requested by the Contracting Officer.

      4.29  Laundry Services


The PIADC scientific mission depends upon the ability to conduct their activities without disruption or interruption that could occur with
failure to process and distribute laundry items.


Laundry services include, but not limited to collecting and distributing/delivery laundry, sorting, washing, drying, and finishing by folding
and/or packaging.  Strict adherence to wash and drying protocols and biological safety movement requirements for both laundry items and
personnel must be followed.


The Contractor will be responsible to manage and administer laundry services on Plum Island.  These services are sized similar to and in
complexity in nature to a small hospital or medical center setting and also includes the management of automated laundry equipment such as
industrial-sized washers, dryers, extractors and steam dryers located in various locations within and outside of biocontainment.


Laundry wash and drying cycles shall be according to authorized local protocol authorized by the PIADC Safety & Health Office.  All equipment
shall be maintained in accordance to manufacturer's specifications.

PIADC Operations includes the use of facility provided work clothing (i.e., including but not limited to laboratory coats/wraps, shirts, pants,
socks, footwear, sweatshirts, undergarments, surgical scrubs, hats, masks, "hospital-type gowns") and towels/bathmats used/generated at various
locations within or ancillary to the two (2) BSL-3 biocontainment facilities (Buildings 101 and 102) and the Science Support Building (Building
100).


When required, clothing will be biologically decontaminated (e.g. autoclaved by the users) prior to being retrieved by the Contractor for
laundering.  All items will be processed and returned to the individual user or management group at specified "pick-up" points or re-stocked at
the Laundry facilities for later use. The Contractor shall maintain a level of common use laundry items commensurate with frequency of use and
shall replace from stock those laundry items that are deemed "unusable" and be prepared to respond "real-time" to telephone or "walk-in"
requests.


The Contractor must be prepared to "ramp-up" operations to support additional personnel attending special training activities conducted with the
laboratory areas.


Most laundry items do not require special biological decontamination prior to pick-up however all laundry washing activities shall be in
accordance with prescribed cycles in accordance with strict biosafety requirements as directed by the PIADC Safety & Health Office.


The Contractor is responsible to maintain a log keeping track of replenishment orders.  The documentation shall be maintained on a daily basis
and retained as requested by the Contracting Officer.


      4.30  Food Services

Food services at Plum Island are important to staff morale.  A good variety of high quality food and friendly responsive services in the
cafeteria is a hallmark of PIADC tradition and culture. The Contractor will need to assure that tradition is sustained.
 
The PIADC kitchen is complete with two walk-in freezers, a steam table service line, two large ovens, deep fat fryer, preparation tables and
scullery.  All are commercial grade.  Food is prepared, stored and sold in a 60 seat lunch room outside containment.  “Pass-through” transfer
boxes are used to provide lunches to staff working in Laboratory Building 101 (bio-containment).

Approximately 200 lunches, which are prepared daily in the PIADC cafeteria, are served normal work day between 11:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
Examples of typical menus, which are published the week before, are shown in TE-8. On Friday, a small breakfast menu has also been traditionally
offered.  Event catering services are also required several times per year for conferences, meetings, and employee/morale events (e.g. annual
harvest festival, holiday lunch), etc.

The Contractor shall:
      • Provide meals to PIADC staff, guests, and visitors on a cash or credit basis.
      • Provide meals as requested to support conferences, meetings, and employee/morale events.
      • Operate and maintain a no-charge coffee and tea service in the Building 100 lobby and ice tea service in the cafeteria.
      • Publish a weekly cafeteria menu and distribute the week before meals are to be prepared.
      • Operate cafeteria services in a non-profit manner.
      • Manage cost accounting and associated reporting practices to provide the necessary assurances that the costs of the food and supplies
        are fully recovered yet not causing cafeteria patrons to overpay for their food.
      • Meet all applicable local, state, and Federal standards with respect to food preparation and cafeteria cleanliness.
      • Understand and meet dietary restrictions of staff and visitors (e.g. peanut allergies), within reason.
      • Formulate daily menu selections taking into consideration “Heart Healthy” food concepts in providing healthy food selections.  “Heart
        Healthy” food concepts can be found on the American Health Association website (www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier+1510).

NOTE: No food or beverages are to be removed from PIADC biocontainment facilities and from Plum Island.

      4.31  Custodial Services

Maintaining clean and sanitary conditions in occupied spaces such as offices and administrative areas is important to Plum Island staff health
and safety as well as having a positive effect on general workplace satisfaction.  Maintaining clean and orderly workspaces shows good
management practices are in place.  Focal points for a high standard of cleanliness and sanitation are the changing facilities, showers, and
bathrooms as a requirement for good laboratory practice, protecting employee health and safety, and maintaining good biological safety for
infectious agent management.  Laboratory cleaning shall consist of the essential elements, but a plan shall be developed for approval by the
scientific staff.


The Contractor will perform the full range of cleaning and sanitation duties in all occupied buildings in accordance with industry, trade
standards, and local policies and procedures.  Cleaning will consist of dust mopping; wet mopping; vacuuming; low and high dusting, wall,
window, glass door and office partition cleaning; floor stripping, waxing and polishing; scuff and stain removing; entry mats and soil
collectors; walkway sweeping and hosing; carpet shampooing; furniture cleaning; and materials stocking.  Areas included are offices, lobbies,
hallways, auditorium and meeting rooms, cafeteria and lunch rooms, bathrooms, water fountains, health clinic, laboratory entry and change areas,
showers, laboratories as defined in TE-5.  In addition, shops, machinery spaces and other utility areas (not customer occupied) will be
maintained in a clean and orderly manner in accordance with industry standards.  Certain areas such as food preparation areas, laboratories,
change facilities, bathrooms and showers will be disinfected and sanitized according to materials and specific schedules according to SOPs for
those areas.


Trash will be removed from office and other administrative areas according to established schedules.  The Contractor will separate appropriate
waste streams to include general trash and paper waste, recyclable paper (all paper disposed in recyclable paper bins must be shredded prior to
leaving the facility), food waste, metal and plastics, spent batteries and other separable wastes.  Custodial staff will remove decontaminated
trash from laboratories and segregate for appropriate disposal paths.  Hazardous wastes including regulated medical waste will not be handled by
custodial staff, but handled by qualified hazardous material and environmental management Contractor staff.


Please refer to TE-5 Custodial Area and Services.

      4.32  Escorting

In the performance of the mission of Plum Island there are many visitors (e.g. representatives from Federal Agencies and Congress, contractors
and subcontractors, etc.) that require access to the island for varying reasons and durations. The visitors sometimes need to bring equipment,
vehicles, computers, etc. to the island. Some personnel, not being vetted through the DHS security process, require escorts in accordance with
the PIADC Visitor Control and Authorization Program.   These situations require preparation and coordination with the parties involved.

The Contractor is required to supply escorts as necessary within the limitations of their staffing model for their and DHS contracted visitors’
work to be completed within the PIADC facility, either inside or outside containment. In addition, as needed, the Contractor will be asked by
DHS and/or DHS contracted staff to provide escort(s) within the PIADC facility for their visitors as well as for other contractors. Due to the
varying need of the escorts it is not expected that there be full time employees with escorting as their only duties. It is expected that the
escort have another job on site, e.g. electrician, mechanic, custodian, etc.

The Contractor is expected to train the escorts on their duties, responsibilities and accountabilities as an escort.  The escort is expected to
have some knowledge of the job that he is escorting for.

      4.33  Visual Arts and Technology


The Contractor to provide equipment set up, operation and maintenance support for VTC and Audio/Visual Equipment for systems installed in the
following rooms at PIADC when requested:


Building 100:
      • West APHIS Conference Room (#2610)
      • Center Director’s Office (#2605)
      • Center Conference Room (#2601)
      • East Conference Room (#2621)
      • Cafeteria (#2632)
      • Auditorium (#1602)
      • Science Conference Room
Building 101:
      • Necropsy Room (#1222)
      • Necropsy Room (#1230)
      • Cafeteria
Orient Point and mobile cart:
      • Administration Building Classroom and associated circuit service connections
      • A cart with VTC and limited audiovisual capabilities is also at B100 (Visual Information Services or VIS office space).for use in other
        areas of the facility.


The Contractor staff currently provides approximately 45 days where the VIS staff is dedicated to photography, presentation and VTC support for
the FADD schools.  In addition, the Contractor can expect to support approximately 5 VTC calls per week, daily presentation support and 15- 20
special events per year.  Examples of special events might be documentation of Emergency Response Exercises or All Hands Meetings.
The Visual Arts and Technology staff will ensure that all products produced will be vetted through the PIADC Security Department prior to
release to the sponsors.




      4.34  Historic Structures

Located on Plum Island are several historic and culturally significant structures (e.g. a non-operable lighthouse constructed in 1869).  The
Contractor will be expected to perform some low level maintenance on some of these structures to assist in meeting our commitments to historic
preservation.

5.0   DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

      5.1   Period of Performance


Five years with a base year anticipated to begin on or about July 1, 2010 and end on June 30, 2011, plus up to four option years.

      5.2   Place of Performance


The primary place of performance will be the Government’s facility at the PIADC located on Plum Island, New York.  The PIADC is accessible only
by Government chartered ferry with scheduled departures and arrivals from Orient Point, New York and Old Saybrook, Connecticut.  The address for
the PIADC is 40550 Route 25, Greenport, NY 11957.

      5.3   Hours of Operation


Work shall be performed during a normal 40 hour week, Monday through Friday, with core hours from 6:00 am and 6:00 pm EST.  Supervisory presence
shall be provided by the Contractor on a 24/7 year-round basis as well as emergency response capabilities.  The Contractor’s Support personnel
shall be on-call to provide 24 hours a day, 7 days per week coverage to support the APHIS diagnostic capability and for outages and other major
problems and/or emergencies.


      5.4   Deliverables and Reports




           5.4.1 Deliverable Acceptance Criteria


      The Government reserves the right to reject any deliverable based on defects with respect to completeness, correctness, clarity, and
      consistencies.  In the event of a rejection of any deliverable, the Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor in writing within five
      (5) business days of the receipt of the deliverable of any deficiencies to be corrected.  The Contractor shall have five (5) business days
      to correct the deficiencies.


      The Contractor shall follow this set of Deliverable Acceptance Criteria:
            • Accuracy – all deliverables shall be accurate in presentation, technical content, and shall adhere to the guidelines set forth in
              this document.  All documentation presented to the Government shall be complete, correct, clear, and consistent.
            • Clarity – deliverables shall be clear and concise, engineering terms shall be used as appropriate.  All design documents shall be
              easy to understand and be relevant to the supporting narrative and desired functionality.
            • Consistency to Requirements – deliverables shall completely satisfy the requirements as defined in this statement of work.
            • Timeliness – deliverables shall be submitted on or before the due date specified in the statement of work or submitted in
              accordance with a later scheduled date mutually agreed upon by the Government and Contractor.  A deliverable is considered timely
              if submitted on or before the date specified in the Statement of Work and, if the Government provides any written notification of
              deficiencies, the Contractor corrects the deficiencies within five (5) business days.
            • File Editing – all documentation deliverables shall be editable by the Government.

3 Documentation Standards


      The following standards apply with the creation, formatting, and delivery of documentation:
            • Textual materials shall be provided in Microsoft Word (2003 or better).
            • Graphical Material shall be provided in Microsoft PowerPoint (2003 or better).
            • Statistical related charts, graphs and other spreadsheet material shall be provided in Microsoft Excel (2003 or better).
            • Work breakdown structures as part of the Program Project Plan shall be provided in Microsoft Project (2003 or better).
            • Hard copy documentation of 50 pages or more shall be bound with a table of contents and a title page that includes the date of
              submission

      5.4.3 List of Deliverables and Reports


           |Deliverable                           |Frequency                             |PIADC Addressee(s)             |Program or Technical         |Other Applicable     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Requirement Section          |Section(s)           |
|Program Management                                                                                                                                               |
|Program Project Plan                  |At pre-award conference               |Director of Operations         |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |Updated copy to be provided upon      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |contract initiation                   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|Staffing Plan (includes Organizational|At pre-award conference               |Director of Operations         |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|Chart)                                |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |Updated copy to be provided upon      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |contract initiation                   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes to the organizational chart   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |affecting direct reports to the       |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |project manager shall be submitted and|                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved semi-annually                |                               |                             |                     |
|Key Personnel Resumes and Commitment  |Prior to contract initiation          |Director of Operations         |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|letters                               |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Corporate Assurance Letter            |On semi-annual basis                  |Director of Operations         |3.1.4 Corporate Assurance    |                     |
|Training and Qualifications Plan or   |At Contract Initiation                |Director of Operations         |3.2 Training and             |                     |
|matrix                                |                                      |                               |Qualifications               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|Phase-In Transition Plan              |Within 5 days of contract award       |Director of Operations         |3.4.1 Phase-In Transition    |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Transition Completion Report          |No later than five business days prior|Director of Operations         |3.4.1 Phase-In Transition    |                     |
|                                      |to the end of the transition period   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Phase-Out Transition Plan             |Upon request                          |Director of Operations         |3.4.2 Phase-Out Transition   |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Quality Management Program Plan       |At pre-award conference               |Director of Operations         |3.6 Quality Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |Updated copy to be provided upon      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |contract initiation                   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|Program Management Reviews (PMRs)     |Quarterly (or as requested)           |Director of Operations         |3.6 Quality Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Self-assessment report and meeting    |Quarterly                             |Director of Operations         |3.6 Quality Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Corrective and Preventative Action    |Upon contract award                   |Director of Operations         |3.6 Quality Management       |                     |
|Procedures                            |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Calibration of Equipment Procedures   |Upon contract award                   |Director of Operations         |3.6 Quality Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Work Planning and Control System      |At Contract Initiation                |Director of Operations         |3.5 Work Planning and Control|                     |
|Compliance                            |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|Budget/Spend Plan                     |Biweekly (or as requested)            |Director of Operations         |3.7.1 Financial Management / |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Controls and Reporting       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Funds Expenditure Report              |Monthly and as requested              |Director of Operations         |3.7.1 Financial Management / |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Controls and Reporting       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Earned Value Reports                  |Upon request                          |Director of Operations         |3.7.1 Financial Management / |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Controls and Reporting       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Financial report (DHS Form 700-5)     |Annually                              |Director of Operations         |3.7.4 Contract Property /    |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Government Furnished Property|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Government-owned IT and               |Upon request                          |Director of Operations         |3.7.4.4 Contract Property /  |                     |
|Telecommunication Assets Tracking     |                                      |                               |Government Furnished Property|                     |
|Report                                |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Contingency Plan for Labor Issues     |At Contract Initiation                |Director of Operations         |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Personal Reliability Program          |Upon contract initiation              |Director of Operations         |6.2 PIADC-specific           |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Requirements                 |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Safety and Health                                                                                                                                                |
|Site Safety and Health Plan (SSHP)    |Within 45 days of contract award      |Safety Officer                 |3.8 Safety, Health, and      |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Environmental Management     |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Industrial Hygienist           |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |Director of Operations         |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Medical Surveillance Program          |At Contract Initiation                |Industrial Hygienist           |4.21 Safety and Health       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Services                     |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Safety Officer                 |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes shall be submitted and        |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |approved upon change request          |                               |                             |                     |
|Biosafety and Biosurety                                                                                                                                          |
|Standard Operating Procedures for     |Annually                              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Biosafety Systems and Equipment       |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Create/maintain/update/amend as new   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |technology or equipment comes on line,|                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |installed or when obsolete equipment  |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |or technologies no longer are employed|                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |or relevant                           |                               |                             |                     |
|Biosafety Systems and                 |Upon new equipment installation, new  |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Equipment-specific training           |staff onboarding, as well as annual   |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |refresher training                    |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Quality Control of Contractor Program |Upon contract initiation              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Report of abnormal personnel          |Upon identification of abnormal       |Security Control Center        |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|observations and physical security    |personnel observations and physical   |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|equipment deficiencies                |security equipment deficiencies       |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Class II Biological Safety Cabinet    |Each cabinet – incidental whenever    |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Certification Reports                 |moved, repaired, or certified         |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Paraformaldehyde Usage Reports        |Quarterly and Incidental              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Transfer Case Testing Reports         |Monthly                               |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|In-Place Filter Test Certification    |Incidental                            |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Reports                               |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Autoclave Certification Test Reports  |Quarterly and Incidental              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Calibration Reports for RMW Treatment |Annually                              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Autoclaves                            |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|PIADC Annual Facility Inspection      |Annually                              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Summary Report                        |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Biological Indicator Test Reports     |Incidental                            |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Building 102 Thermal Treatment        |Incidental                            |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Validation and Challenge Test Reports |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Building 102 Batch Tank Release       |Incidental                            |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Reports                               |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Regulated Medical Waste Processing Log|Quarterly                             |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Reports                               |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Airlock/Pass-Box Decontamination Log  |Quarterly                             |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Report                                |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Directional Airflow Checklist         |Daily                                 |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Weekly Inspection Checklist for       |Individual reports - Weekly           |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Regulated Medical Waste Processing    |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|Areas:                                |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|•        Autoclave Room 142           |Combined reports - Monthly            |                               |                             |                     |
|•        Shredder Room 152            |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|•        Autoclave Room 144           |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Autoclave Run Logbook                 |Annually                              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Building 100 BSL-2 Laboratory         |Weekly                                |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Janitorial Maintenance Checklist      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Virkon-S Disinfectant Checklist       |Quarterly                             |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|(Buildings 101 and 102)               |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Form 598 “Tracking for                |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|Reagents/Supplies Transfer and        |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|Shipment”                             |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Training Program Data Sheet           |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|598 Transfers from Building 101       |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Material Receipt Form                 |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Receipt of Biological Material        |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|(Sticker)                             |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Courier Log                           |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|Transfer and shipment activity reports|Incidental                            |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1 Biological               |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Safety/Biological Containment|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Management and Services      |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Animal Room Maintenance                                                                                                                                          |
|AAALAC Checklist                      |Activity-based                        |DHS Science Lead               |4.1.2 Animal Room Maintenance|                     |
|                                      |                                      |Animal Care Vet                |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Animal Care Supervisor         |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Biological Safety Officer      |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Center Director                |                             |                     |
|White Smoke Testing reports           |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1.2 Animal Room Maintenance|                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Pressure Decay Testing reports        |When directed by the DHS Facility     |DHS Facility Engineer          |4.1.2 Animal Room Maintenance|                     |
|                                      |Engineer and Biological Safety Officer|Biological Safety Officer      |                             |                     |
|Particulate and Biological Air-Filter |Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.1.2 Animal Room Maintenance|                     |
|Changes reports                       |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Environmental Compliance                                                                                                                                         |
|Environmental Management plan         |Within 45 days after contract award   |Environmental Protection       |3.8 Safety, Health, and      |                     |
|                                      |                                      |Officer (EPO)                  |Environmental Management     |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Environmentally preferably product    |Quarterly                             |EPO                            |3.7.3 Environmental          |                     |
|purchase report                       |                                      |                               |Preferably (“green”)         |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Purchasing                   |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Liquid Effluent Decontamination       |Activity-based                        |Environmental Protection       |4.3 Liquid Effluent          |                     |
|records                               |                                      |Specialist COTR                |Decontamination Plant        |                     |
|Discharge Monitoring Report           |Monthly                               |Environmental Protection       |4.4 Waste Water Treatment    |4.12 Waste Management|
|                                      |                                      |Specialist                     |Plant                        |                     |
|Boiler certification                  |Annually                              |COTR                           |4.6 Boiler Plant             |4.11 Fuel and Oil    |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |Management           |
|Valve position log book               |Activity-based                        |COTR                           |4.6 Boiler Plant             |4.11 Fuel and Oil    |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |Management           |
|Inspection reports for fuel           |Weekly                                |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|dispensers, ASTs, USTs, and tank farm |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Inspection reports for truck          |Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|fuel-loading rack, ASTs, USTs, tank   |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|farm and boiler/generator day tanks   |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Analyses of groundwater samples from  |Bi-annually                           |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|on-site wells                         |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Pipeline pressure test reports        |Annually                              |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|10-day diesel and gasoline use        |Activity-based                        |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|reconciliation statements             |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Storm-water discharge from tank farm  |As needed                             |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|secondary containment system reports  |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Fuel barge delivery inspection        |Activity-based                        |EPO                            |4.11 Fuel and Oil Management |                     |
|checklists                            |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Report on all waste disposal          |Annually                              |EPO                            |4.12.1 Hazardous and         |                     |
|facilities to which PIADC wastes are  |                                      |                               |Universal Waste Management   |                     |
|sent                                  |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Inspection reports of SAAs, universal |Weekly                                |EPO                            |4.12.1 Hazardous and         |                     |
|waste accumulation area, and hazardous|                                      |                               |Universal Waste Management   |                     |
|waste accumulation area               |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Inspection report of hazardous        |Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.12.1 Hazardous and         |                     |
|materials spill response equipment    |                                      |                               |Universal Waste Management   |                     |
|Hazardous and universal waste         |Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.12.1 Hazardous and         |                     |
|accumulation report                   |                                      |                               |Universal Waste Management   |                     |
|Hazardous and universal waste         |Activity-based                        |EPO                            |4.12.1 Hazardous and         |                     |
|manifests, land disposal restriction  |                                      |                               |Universal Waste Management   |                     |
|forms, packing lists and other        |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|shipping forms                        |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Reports of accumulation and disposal  |Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.12.2 Solid (Municipal)     |                     |
|of recycled material (broken out      |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|according to type)                    |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Municipal waste disposal reports      |Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.12.2 Solid (Municipal)     |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|Accumulation, processing, and disposal|Monthly                               |Biosafety Officer              |4.12.3 Regulated Medical     |                     |
|reports                               |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |EPO                            |                             |                     |
|Inspection reports of RMW processing  |Weekly                                |Biological Safety Officer      |4.12.3 Regulated Medical     |                     |
|and storage areas                     |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |EPO                            |                             |                     |
|Calibration reports of RMW treatment  |Annually                              |Biological Safety Officer      |4.12.3 Regulated Medical     |                     |
|autoclaves                            |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |EPO                            |                             |                     |
|RMW manifests and other shipping forms|Activity-based                        |Biological Safety Officer      |4.12.3 Regulated Medical     |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Waste Management             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |EPO                            |                             |                     |
|                                      |Also track and solicit delinquent     |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |manifests not received from disposal  |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |vendor                                |                               |                             |                     |
|Incinerator inspection and calibration|Annually                              |EPO                            |4.12.5 Air Pollution Control |                     |
|reports                               |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Incinerator operator and opacity      |Upon new staff hires and annually     |EPO                            |4.12.5 Air Pollution Control |                     |
|reader training certifications        |after that                            |                               |                             |                     |
|Incinerator operating parameters (e.g.|Monthly                               |EPO                            |4.12.5 Air Pollution Control |                     |
|temperature & maintenance logs,       |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|material burn logs, ash test reports) |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|SOPs for incinerator operation and    |Upon contract initiation              |EPO                            |4.12.5 Air Pollution Control |                     |
|record keeping                        |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |Changes to be approved by EPO         |                               |                             |                     |
|Opacity logs                          |Activity-based                        |EPO                            |4.12.5 Air Pollution Control |                     |
|Water quality test reports            |Activity-based                        |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|Back-flow prevention inspection       |Activity-based                        |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|reports                               |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Water-storage water inspection report |Annually                              |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|Inspections by County and Annual      |Quarterly                             |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|inspections by State                  |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Supply wells and wellhead protection  |As needed                             |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|inspection reports                    |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Waste-water sampling reports          |Activity-based                        |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.12.6 Sanitary Waste Water  |                     |
|SPDES Discharge Monitoring Report     |Monthly                               |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.12.6 Sanitary Waste Water  |                     |
|Water-treatment chemical usage report |Annually                              |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.12.6 Sanitary Waste Water  |                     |
|Instrument calibration report         |Annually                              |EPO                            |4.12.6 Sanitary Waste Water  |                     |
|Inspections by County and Annual      |Quarterly                             |EPO and applicable regulators  |4.12.6 Sanitary Waste Water  |                     |
|inspections by State                  |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|General O&M-related                                                                                                                                              |
|Facility and equipment lists          |Validated / updated at Contract       |Facility Engineer              |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|                                      |Initiation and Annually thereafter    |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Facility and equipment deficiency     |Validated / updated at Contract       |Facility Engineer              |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|lists                                 |Initiation and Annually thereafter    |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Lessons Learned Reports               |After incident occurrence             |Facility Engineer              |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Copies of personnel certifications,   |Validated / updated at Contract       |Facility Engineer              |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|permits, and licenses to verify       |Initiation and Annually thereafter    |                               |                             |                     |
|capability and/or authorization to    |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|perform expected work                 |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Copies of training certificates to    |After training                        |Facility Engineer              |3.1 Program Management       |                     |
|verify receipt of training            |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Specific O&M-related                                                                                                                                             |
|Heating, cooling and ventilation      |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.8 Heating, Cooling and     |                     |
|systems and equipment inspection      |                                      |                               |Ventilation                  |                     |
|reports                               |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Heating, cooling and ventilation      |Daily                                 |Facility Engineer              |4.8 Heating, Cooling and     |                     |
|systems logs with readings            |                                      |                               |Ventilation                  |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Boiler equipment inspection           |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.6 Boiler Plant             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Boiler operator training program      |Upon Contract Initiation              |Facility Engineer              |4.6 Boiler Plant             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Operator test results                 |Upon new equipment installation, new  |Facility Engineer              |4.6 Boiler Plant             |                     |
|                                      |staff onboarding, as well as annual   |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |refresher training                    |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Boiler Operation Certificate          |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.6 Boiler Plant             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Daily boiler operating logs           |Monthly                               |Facility Engineer              |4.6 Boiler Plant             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Monthly Water and Wastewater Reports  |Monthly                               |Facility Engineer              |4.2 Water Plant              |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Liquid Effluent Decontamination       |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.3 Liquid Effluent          |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |Decontamination Plant        |                     |
|Instrument calibration reports        |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Chiller plant                         |Upon request                          |Facility Engineer              |4.7 Chiller Plant            |                     |
|operational logs                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Electric generation/power plant       |Upon request                          |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|reports                               |                                      |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Power Plant equipment inspection      |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Contractor electrical operator        |Upon new equipment installation, new  |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|training program and test results     |staff onboarding, as well as annual   |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |refresher training                    |                               |                             |                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|SOP defining the parameters of        |Within 30 days of Contract Initiation |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|emergency generator operation         |                                      |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Transformer test reports              |Every 5 years                         |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|Diesel generator oil analysis report  |Annually                              |Facility Engineer              |4.10 Electrical Distribution |                     |
|                                      |                                      |                               |and Power Generation Services|                     |
|                                      |                                      |COTR                           |                             |                     |
|IT System certification and           |As needed                             |IT Supervisor                  |4.15 Information Technology  |                     |
|accreditation                         |                                      |                               |                             |                     |
|Laboratory cleaning plan              |Upon contract initiation              |COTR                           |4.30 Custodial Services      |                     |


6.0 SECURITY Requirements


      6.1   PIADC Suitability Requirements


Permanent contractor staff positions at PIADC have been designated as public trust positions. Public trust positions are positions that have the
potential for adverse impact on the integrity or efficiency of the facility’s mission accomplishment.  O&M Contractor staff that require
unescorted access are considered within public trust positions at PIADC.


1 6.1.1     Employment Eligibility


      The Contractor shall ensure that each employee working on this contract possess a social security card that has been approved and issued by
      the Social Security Administration.  The Contractor shall be responsible to the Government for acts and omissions of their employees as
      well as subcontractor(s) and their employees.

      Subject to existing law, regulations and/or other provisions of this contract, illegal or undocumented aliens shall not be employed by the
      Contractor or perform on this contract.  The Contractor shall ensure this provision is expressly incorporated into any and all subcontracts
      or subordinate agreements issued in support of this contract

2 6.1.2     Continued Eligibility


      DHS reserves the right to deny and/or restrict entrance to Government facilities, prohibit employees from assigned work under the contract,
      deny and/or restrict handling of classified documents/material to any Contractor employee who DHS determines to present a risk of
      compromising classified and/or sensitive Government information.

      The Contractor shall report to the DHS Security Office any and all adverse information brought to their attention concerning employees
      performing under this contract.  Reports based on rumor or innuendo shall not be included.  The subsequent termination of employment of an
      employee does not obviate the requirement to submit this report.  The report shall include the employee’s name and social security number,
      along with the adverse information being reported.

3 6.1.3     Termination


      The DHS Security Office and PIADC Biosurety Officer shall be notified of all Contractor/subcontractor employee terminations/resignations
      immediately.  The Contractor shall return to the DHS Technical Representative all DHS issued identification cards and building passes that
      have either expired or have been collected from terminated employees.  If an identification card or building pass is not available to be
      returned, a report shall be submitted to the COTR, referencing the pass or card number, name of individual to who issued and the last known
      location and disposition of the pass or card.  DHS-issued locks, keys, and property shall also be surrendered upon termination.

           6.1.4 Security Management



      The Contractor shall appoint a senior official to act as a Security Officer.  The individual shall interface with the DHS Security Office
      through the DHS Technical Representative on all security matters, to include physical, personnel, and protection of all sensitive
      documents/material handled by the Contractor.

      The DHS Technical Representative and DHS Security Office will have the right to inspect procedures, methods and facilities utilized by the
      Contractor to comply with the security requirements under this contract.  Should the DHS Technical Representative or DHS Security Office
      determine that the Contractor is not in compliance with the security requirements of the contract, the Contracting Officer will notify the
      Contractor, in writing, of the appropriate action that will be taken to rectify any non-compliance to the contract security requirements.

           6.1.5 Suitability Determination


      DHS shall exercise full control over granting, denying, withholding or terminating unescorted Government facility and/or access to or
      handling of both classified and sensitive Government information to Contractor employees based upon the results of a background
      investigation.  DHS may, as deems appropriate, authorize and grant a favorable entry on duty (EOD) decision based on preliminary
      security checks.  The favorable EOD decision would allow the employees to commence work temporarily prior to the completion of the full
      investigation.  The granting of a favorable EOD decision shall not be considered as assurance that a full employment suitability
      authorization will follow as a result thereof.  The granting of a favorable EOD decision or a full employment suitability determination
      shall in no way prevent, preclude, or bar the withdrawal or termination of any such access by DHS, at any time during the term of the
      contract.  No employee of the Contractor shall be allowed unescorted access to a Government facility without a favorable EOD decision or
      suitability determination by the DHS Security Office.  Contractor employees assigned to the contract not requiring access to sensitive
      DHS information or recurring access to DHS facilities will not be subject to security suitability screening.


      Contractor employees waiting for an EOD decision may begin work on the contract provided they do not access sensitive Government
      information.  Limited access to Government buildings is allowable prior to the EOD decision if the Contractor employee is escorted by a
      either a Government employee or fully vetted contract staff member.  This limited access is to allow Contractor employees to attend
      briefings, non-recurring meetings and begin transition work.

      Contractor staff designated by Management requiring unescorted access to BSL – 3 Laboratory Areas, Vaccine Banks and other sensitive
      facilities at PIADC is considered Moderate to High Public Trust Positions and have the potential for adverse impact on the integrity or
      efficiency of the facility’s mission.  As such, a final suitability adjudication based upon a Limited Background Investigation (LBI) or
      equivalent is required for unescorted access.  In addition, in accordance with 9 CFR 121 O&M Contractor staff working in areas accessible
      to select agents also require a favorable Security Risk Assessment conducted by the Department of Justice and registration with the Select
      Agent Program. Processing of requests for Select Agent registration at PIADC is handled by the PIADC Safety Office.


      Denial of an approved EOD, final suitability or Security Risk Assessment is grounds for removal of PIADC access authorization.


      O&M Contractor staff with continued service at PIADC will not be required to reapply for suitability if there is only a change of
      employers. PIADC Security reserves the right to deny access to Contractor staff that presents a risk to the facility mission.


                 6.1.5.1      Reinvestigation

           Contractor staff with final suitability requires re-investigation every five (5) years. It is the responsibility of the Contractor to
           track due dates for reinvestigation and assure their employees submit the required information to DHS in a timely fashion. DHS /
           PIADC may suspend or revoke access authorization to PIADC based upon a delay in submitting necessary information for the completion
           of reinvestigation.


                 6.1.5.2     Reporting of Arrests


           All Contractor staff is required to report any arrest and / or criminal conviction immediately to the PIADC Security Department.

           6.1.6 Background Investigations


      Contractor employees (to include applicants, temporaries, part-time and replacement employees) under the contract, requiring access to
      sensitive information, shall undergo a position sensitivity analysis based on the duties each individual will perform on the contract.
      The results of the position sensitivity analysis shall identify the appropriate background investigation to be conducted.  All
      background investigations will be processed through the DHS Security Office.  Prospective Contractor employees shall submit the
      following completed forms to the DHS Security Office through the DHS Technical Representative no less than thirty (30) days before the
      start date of the contract or thirty (30) days prior to entry on duty of any employees, whether a replacement, addition, subcontractor
      employee, or vendor:
           a. Standard Form 85P, “Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions”
           b. FD Form 258, “Fingerprint Card” (2 copies)
           c. Conditional Access To Sensitive But Unclassified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement
           d. Disclosure and Authorization Pertaining to Consumer Reports Pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act

      Required forms will be provided by DHS at the time of award of the contract.  Only complete packages will be accepted by the DHS
      Security Office.  Specific instructions on submission of packages will be provided upon award of the contract.

      Be advised that unless an applicant requiring access to sensitive information has resided in the U.S. for three of the past five years,
      the Government may not be able to complete a satisfactory background investigation.  In such cases, DHS retains the right to deem an
      applicant as ineligible due to insufficient background information.

      The use of Non-U.S. citizens, including Lawful Permanent Residents (LPRs), is not permitted in the performance of this contract for any
      position that involves access to or development of any DHS Information Technology (IT) systems.  DHS will consider only U.S. Citizens and
      LPRs for employment on this contract.  DHS will not approve LPRs for employment on this contract in any position that requires the LPR to
      access or assist in the development, operation, management or maintenance of DHS IT systems.  In those instances where other non-IT
      requirements contained in the contract can be met by using LPRs, those requirements shall be clearly described.

           6.1.7 Select Agent Regulation


      The majority of O&M Contract staff will be subject to the requirements described by Title 9, CFR, Part 121 (Possession, Use, and Transfer
      of Select Agents and Toxins).  The regulation requires that individuals subject to this regulation undergo a security risk assessment
      performed by the U.S. Attorney General.  Thus, for roles that necessitate unescorted access to containment areas in order to access areas
      that contain Select Agents, these staff members will also need to obtain Select Agent clearance.  This is a separate clearance process
      conducted by the Department of Justice and will need to be coordinated with the PIADC Biosurety Officer.  Upon receipt of Select Agent
      clearance, the staff member must then complete mandatory Select Agent training (and refresher training in the month of January of each year
      thereafter, in order to participate in the PIADC Select Agent Program) as well as understand policies and practices within containment
      before obtaining unescorted access.  Until the receipt of Select Agent clearance, the staff member will need to be escorted by another
      cleared staff member on a one-on-one basis in containment areas.


      6.2   PIADC-specific Requirements (see References section)


In addition to these clearance and training requirements, PIADC has their own code of conduct and overarching policies and procedures that must
be adhered to at all times while on Government property.  These codes and policies and procedures include but are not limited to the following:
      • PIADC Biological Safety Regulations:  All Contractors will be required to abide by all applicable Biological Safety regulations and
        instructions.  All Contractors must acknowledge receipt of these regulations as employment at the PIADC is conditional upon compliance
        therewith.
      • Personal Recognizance Quarantine Declaration:  As a condition of entry to and employment at the PIADC, all Contractors must acknowledge
        the Personal Recognizant Quarantine Declaration to avoid contact with specific susceptible animals while off Plum Island.
      • PIADC Personnel Reliability Program:  Ensuring employee reliability is a continuous process.  Implementing a personnel reliability
        program starts with an initial evaluation of employees for security and safety concerns, unusual behavior, or deliberate violations of
        policy and procedures, and continues with annual employee evaluations and briefings.
           o The Contractor shall develop and submit for approval a Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) that will assure the continuous safety,
             reliability, trustworthiness and fitness-for-duty in the day-to-day performance of their jobs.  The Contractor PRP will contain the
             following elements:
                ▪ DHS Suitability processing for all new hires in accordance with DHS Management Directive MD 11055. At a minimum, an
                  “Effective On Duty” Contractor fitness determination will be received prior to having access to sensitive information. All
                  Contractor employees will be processed for final suitability.
                ▪ Continuous Behavior Observation through annual supervisory reviews who have contact with the employee from a security and
                  reliability perspective. This annual review gives the supervisor an opportunity to assess the employee’s behavior and
                  determine whether changes have occurred that might indicate a security of safety risk
                ▪ Reporting of Arrests
                ▪ Initial and Random Drug and Alcohol Testing (per section 3.3)
                ▪ Management Review – the Project Manager reviews the results of the above elements and incorporates them into a
                  recommendation that the individual is fit for duty both initially and as a recertification.
      • Visitor Authorization and Control Program:  shall be accomplished in support of the PIADC Visitor Authorization and Control program.
           o Visitors of the O&M Contractor may also be subject to certain clearance requirements such as those that are described by Title 9,
             CFR, Part 121 (Possession, Use, and Transfer of Select Agents and Toxins).
      • Guidelines for Contractors Working at PIADC
      • For the health and safety of the PIADC personnel and to prevent the spread of disease, immunization against diseases being studied at
        the PIADC which are transmissible to humans may be required where the vaccine has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (for
        safety and effectiveness under the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended under 21 USC 321-392).  Where the
        vaccine has been approved by the FDA for investigational purposes, the incumbent will be advised that such immunization is voluntary.


      Other continuing clearance and training requirements may also apply for all O&M Contractor staff per current and yet-to-be-defined Federal
      and PIADC-specific regulations.  In the event that an O&M Contractor staff member is found to be non-compliant with these requirements,
      PIADC leadership will require additional information from the O&M Contractor regarding the event and will take further action, if
      necessary.


1 6.3 Information Technology Security Clearance


When sensitive Government information is processed on Department telecommunications and automated information systems, the Contractor shall
provide for the administrative control of sensitive data being processed and adhere to the procedures governing such data as outlined in “DHS IT
Security Program – Publication DHS MD 4300.Pub”.

Contractor personnel must have favorably adjudicated background investigations commensurate with the defined sensitivity level.

Services provided by the service provider shall comply with MD 4300.1, Information Technology Systems Security Program and 4300A Sensitive
Systems Handbook

Contractor employees who fail to comply with Department security policy are subject to having their access to Department IT systems and
facilities terminated, whether or not the failure results in criminal prosecution.  Any person who improperly discloses sensitive information is
subject to criminal and civil penalties and sanctions under a variety of laws (e.g., Privacy Act).

2 6.4 Information Technology Security Training and Oversight


All Contractor employees using Department automated systems or processing Department sensitive data shall be required to receive Security
Awareness Training.  This training will be provided by the Information System Security Officer (ISSO).

Contractor personnel involved with management, use, or operation of any IT systems that handle sensitive information within or under the
supervision of the Department, shall receive periodic training at least annually in security awareness and accepted security practices and
systems rules of behavior.  Department Contractors, with significant security responsibilities, shall receive specialized training specific to
their security responsibilities annually.  The level of training shall be commensurate with the individual’s duties and responsibilities and is
intended to promote a consistent understanding of the principles and concepts of telecommunications and IT systems security.

All personnel who access Department information systems will be continually evaluated while performing these duties.  Supervisors should be
aware of any unusual or inappropriate behavior by personnel accessing systems.  Any unauthorized access, sharing of passwords, or other
questionable security procedures should be reported to the local Security Office or ISSO.






           |DHS Office of Security                                                         |Defense Security Service                                                       |
|DHS, Office of Security                                                        |Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO)                           |
|Personnel Security Staff                                                       |2780 Airport Drive Suite 400                                                   |
|Attn: Michael Evans                                                            |Columbus, Ohio 43219-2268                                                      |
|Washington DC  20528                                                           |Phone: (614) 827-1634                                                          |
|Telephone:  (202) 447-0340                                                     |Fax:     (614) 827-1635                                                        |



      6.5   Information Security

All services provided under this contract must be compliant with DHS Information Security Policy, identified in MD4300.

2 6.6 Physical Security


The Contractor shall provide physical security for the DHS facilities provided under this contract and must comply with DHS Management Directive
11030.1 Physical Protection of Facilities and Real Property and Section 4.2 of DHS 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook, Version 4.0, June 1, 2006.
The Contractor agrees to provide any additional physical security measures deemed appropriate to enhance the level of protection for DHS
facilities.


      6.7   Management of IT Assets


           6.7.1 Developed Solutions

      All developed solutions shall be compliant with the DHS Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA).
 
           6.7.2 Hardware/Software

      All IT hardware or software acquired under this contract shall comply with the HLS EA.

      6.8   Section 508


Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220), August 7, 1998, requires that when
Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, they must ensure that it is accessible to people with
disabilities. Federal employees and members of the public who have disabilities must have equal access to and use of information and data that
is comparable to that enjoyed by non-disabled Federal employees and members of the public.

  1. All Electronic Information Technology (EIT) deliverables within this work statement shall comply with the applicable technical and
     functional performance criteria of Section 508 unless exempt. Specifically, the following applicable standards have been identified:

        1. 36 CFR 1194.21 – Software Applications and Operating Systems, applies to all EIT software applications and operating systems procured
           or developed under this work statement including but not limited to GOTS and COTS software. In addition, this standard is to be
           applied to Web-based applications when needed to fulfill the functional performance criteria. This standard also applies to some Web
           based applications as described within 36 CFR 1194.22.

        2. 36 CFR 1194.22 – Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, applies to all Web-based deliverables, including
           documentation and reports procured or developed under this work statement. When any Web application uses a dynamic (non-static)
           interface, embeds custom user control(s), embeds video or multimedia, uses proprietary or technical approaches such as, but not
           limited to, Flash or Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) then “1194.21 Software” standards also apply to fulfill functional
           performance criteria.

        3. 36 CFR 1194.23 – Telecommunications Products, applies to all telecommunications products including end-user interfaces such as
           telephones and non end-user interfaces such as switches, circuits, etc. that are procured, developed or used by the Federal
           Government.

        4. 36 CFR 1194.25 – Self Contained, Closed Products, applies to all EIT products such as printers, copiers, fax machines, kiosks, etc.
           that are procured or developed under this work statement.

        5. 36 CFR 1194.26 – Desktop and Portable Computers, applies to all desktop and portable computers, including but not limited to laptops
           and personal data assistants (PDA) that are procured or developed under this work statement.

        6. 36 CFR 1194.31 – Functional Performance Criteria, applies to all EIT deliverables regardless of delivery method. All EIT deliverable
           shall use technical standards, regardless of technology, to fulfill the functional performance criteria.

        7. 36 CFR 1194.41 – Information Documentation and Support, applies to all documents, reports, as well as help and support services. To
           ensure that documents and reports fulfill the required “1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria”, they shall comply with the
           technical standard associated with Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications at a minimum. In addition, any help
           or support provided in this work statement that offer telephone support, such as, but not limited to, a help desk shall have the
           ability to transmit and receive messages using TTY.

  2. Exceptions for this work statement have been determined by DHS and only the exceptions described herein may be applied. Any request for
     additional exceptions shall be sent to the COTR and determination will be made in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2. DHS has identified the
     following exceptions that may apply:

        1. 36 CFR 1194.2(b) – (COTS/GOTS products), When procuring a product, each agency shall procure products which comply with the
           provisions in this part when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are developed in
           response to a Government solicitation. Agencies cannot claim a product as a whole is not commercially available because no product in
           the marketplace meets all the standards. If products are commercially available that meets some but not all of the standards, the
           agency must procure the product that best meets the standards.

        2. When applying this standard, all procurements of EIT shall have documentation of market research that identify a list of products or
           services that first meet the agency business needs, and from that list of products or services, an analysis that the selected product
           met more of the accessibility requirements than the non-selected products as required by FAR 39.2. Any selection of a product or
           service that meets less accessibility standards due to a significant difficulty or expense shall only be permitted under an undue
           burden claim and requires approval from the DHS Office on Accessible Systems and Technology (OAST) in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2.

        3. 36 CFR 1194.3(b) – Incidental to Contract, all EIT that is exclusively owned and used by the Contractor to fulfill this work
           statement does not require compliance with Section 508. This exception does not apply to any EIT deliverable, service or item that
           will be used by any Federal employee(s) or member(s) of the public. This exception only applies to those Contractors assigned to
           fulfill the obligations of this work statement and for the purposes of this requirement, are not considered members of the public.

        4. 36 CFR 1194.3(f) – Back Office, applies to any EIT item that will be located in spaces frequented only by service personnel for
           maintenance, repair, or occasional monitoring of equipment. This exception does not include remote user interfaces that are
           accessible outside the enclosed “space”.
        5.  The accessibility plan required within this work statement (Section 8.0) shall indicate how compliance with Section 508 standards
           identified in “Exhibit A – Section 508” will be accomplished for both products and services where EIT is procured, developed, used or
           maintained under this work statement.  This plan shall include at a minimum, a matrix of the applicable standards as it relates to
           the EIT item(s), how the standards will be applied within the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), accessibility test methodology
           to be implemented, test results within the plans delivery schedule specific to Section 508, and upon successful testing,
           documentation asserting the accessibility level of the deliverable.

7.0   CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA


      7.1   Requests for Payment/Submission of Invoices

The Contractor may submit an invoice(s) in accordance with terms and conditions of the contract to the address indicated as payment office on
the award document for review, process and payment.  The Contractor shall invoice only for the hours, travel and Other Direct Costs (ODCs) that
are in direct support of Contractor’s efforts in performing the contract.  Hours in such invoice shall be identified by task/phase and by labor
category. The amounts for labor shall be computed by multiplying the appropriate hourly rates prescribed in the Schedule by the number of direct
labor hours performed.  Fractional parts of an hour may be payable on a prorated basis.  The Contractor shall substantiate vouchers by evidence
of actual payment and by individual daily job timecards (when required), or other substantiation as approved by the Contracting Officer.
Government will not reimburse for overtime other than based on what was originally proposed and accepted at time of issuance of the contract and
as indicated in the Schedule.  ODCs and travel costs shall be identified by task/phase and shall include all necessary documentation supporting
the charge(s).  Invoices submitted for payment must be accompanied by a copy of the Government’s document(s) accepting the covered services.  A
copy of the invoice will be submitted to the contracting officer at the same time it is submitted to the program manager. Failure to comply with
the procedures outlined above may result in payment being delayed


      7.2   Reimbursement of Travel Costs

Local travel within a 50-mile radius of the PIADC will not be reimbursed.  This includes travel, subsistence, and associated labor charges for
travel time.  Travel, subsistence, and associated labor charges for travel time for travel beyond a 50-mile radius of the PIADC may be necessary
and must be previously approved by the COTR.  No travel will be reimbursed without prior approval from the COTR.


      7.3   Advertisements, Publicizing Awards, and News Releases

Under no circumstances shall the Contractor, or anyone acting on behalf of the Contractor, refer to the supplies, services, or equipment
furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any publicity/ news release or commercial advertising without first obtaining explicit
written consent to do so from the DHS Contracting Office.

The Contractor agrees not to refer to awards in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service
provided is endorsed or preferred by the Federal Government or is considered by the Government to be superior to other products or services.












      7.4   DHS Points of Contact

The DHS Points of Contact (POCs) are as follows:


        DHS S&T Technical Representative (COTR):
                 Patrick Moylan
                 Department of Homeland Security
                 PIADC
                 40550 Route 25
                 Greenport, NY 11957
                 Phone: 631-323-3142
                 E-mail: patrick.moylan@dhs.gov


        DHS S&T Contracting Officer:
                 Ms. Courtney Byrd
                 Department of Homeland Security
                 Office of Procurement Operations for Science & Technology
                 Washington, DC 20528
                 Phone: 202-254-2296
                 Email: courtney.byrd@dhs.gov


        Financial Analyst:
                 Mr. Michael Canestrari
                 Department of Homeland Security
                 PIADC
                 40550 Route 25
                 Greenport, NY 11957
                 Phone: 631-323-3301
                 E-mail: michael.canestrari@associates.dhs.gov



8.0   TECHNICAL EXHIBITS

|TE-1         |Maps                                                                                                            |
|TE-2         |Facilities Listing                                                                                              |
|TE-3         |Equipment to be Maintained                                                                                      |
|TE-4         |Government Furnished Equipment                                                                                  |
|TE-5         |Custodial Areas and Services                                                                                    |
|TE-6         |Environmental Permits                                                                                           |
|TE-7         |Memorandums of Understanding/Agreement                                                                          |
|TE-8         |Sample of Cafeteria Menu                                                                                        |
|TE-9         |Ferry Schedule                                                                                                  |
|TE-10        |DHS Required Training Programs                                                                                  |
|TE-11        |AALAC Checklist                                                                                                 |
|TE-12        |PIADC Training Program Data Sheet                                                                               |
|TE-13        |License Requirements                                                                                            |
|TE-14        |Drug and Alcohol Testing Program                                                                                |

Please note that due to the sensitive nature of these documents, the following referenced local PIADC policies, plans and procedures can be
provided to the Contractor upon request:
      • Government and O&M Duty Officer
      • Standard Operating Procedure for the Sampling and Analysis of Ash from West and East/Orient Incinerators
      • Lab Waste Guidelines
      • Custodial Area SOPs
      • PIADC Biosafety-related procedures
      • Tracking and Shipment of Incoming Packages and Receiving Biological & or Radiological Packages for delivery to PIADC and PIADC Handling
        of Suspicious Mail/Packages Protocol
      • Facility Response Plan/Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (FRP/SPCC) plan
      • Safety and Health Requirements Manual EM385-1-1, Appendix A dated 15 September 2008
      • Bio Materials Movement Program / Shipment of Biological Materials SOP
      • Marine Transportation / Vessel Operations SOP
   9.0      STANDARDS, REQUIREMENTS, AND REGULATIONS
|REGULATIONS                               |URL OR ATTACHMENT NO.                                                                            |
|Code of Federal Regulations (CPR)         |http://www.gpoaccess.gov/cfr/                                                                    |
|Title 9, CFR, Part 121 (Possession, Use,  |http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_06/9cfr121_06.html                                    |
|and Transfer of Select Agents and Toxins) |                                                                                                 |
|Occupational Safety and Health            |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owasrch.search_form?p_doc_type=STANDARDS&p_toc_level=0           |
|Administration (OSHA) Regulation 29 CFR   |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|29 CFR 1904                               |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owasrch.search_form?p_doc_type=STANDARDS&p_toc_level=1&p_keyvalue|
|                                          |=1904                                                                                            |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|29 CFR 1910                               |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=9696                |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|29 CFR 1910.252                           |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?p_id=9853&p_table=standards                |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|29 CFR 1919.132 through 1919.140 PPE      |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owasrch.search_form?p_doc_type=STANDARDS&p_toc_level=1&p_keyvalue|
|                                          |=1919                                                                                            |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|29 CFR 1926                               |http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owasrch.search_form?p_doc_type=STANDARDS&p_toc_level=1&p_keyvalue|
|                                          |=1926                                                                                            |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|33 CFR                                    |http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?sid=6f9b6ddc5dde3f62fb407d5fff6f8203&c=ecfr&tpl=/ec|
|                                          |frbrowse/Title33/33cfrv1_02.tpl                                                                  |
|33 CFR Part 105                           |http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title33/33cfr105_main_02.tpl|
|33 CFR 154 (USCG)                         |http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title33/33cfr154_main_02.tpl|
|39 CFR US Postal Service Regulation       |pe.usps.com/FRN/US_Customs_Domestic.pdf                                                          |
|40 CFR 112 (USEPA)                        |http://www.epa.gov/oem/lawsregs.htm#froppr                                                       |
|Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA 90)        |http://www.epa.gov/OEM/content/lawsregs/opaover.htm                                              |
|including 40 CFR 112                      |                                                                                                 |
|46 CFR                                    |http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_05/46cfrv1_05.html                                    |
|48 CFR 952.204-2                          |http://law.justia.com/us/cfr/title48/48-5.0.3.25.38.2.1.5.html                                   |
|49 CFR US DOT Hazardous Materials         |http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?sid=585c275ee19254ba07625d8c92fe925f&c=ecfr&tpl=/ec|
|Regulation                                |frbrowse/Title49/49cfrv2_02.tpl                                                                  |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|Animal Care:                              |http://www.aaalac.org                                                                            |
|•  AAALAC                                 |                                                                                                 |
|•  Guide for the Care and Use of          |http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=5140                                                   |
|Laboratory Animals                        |                                                                                                 |
|•  Guide for the Care and Use of          |http://www.fass.org/page.asp?pageID=%20216                                                       |
|Agricultural Animals in Agricultural      |                                                                                                 |
|Research and Teaching                     |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|New York State Department of Labor        |http://www.labor.state.ny.us/workerprotection/safetyhealth/sh56.shtm                             |
|Asbestos Law (Code 56)                    |                                                                                                 |
|Bus service, motor vehicles, and heavy    |http://www.nydmv.state.ny.us/                                                                    |
|equipment requirements – local, state, and|                                                                                                 |
|Federal regulations                       |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.ecode360.com/?custId=SO0452                                                           |
|CDC/NIH Publication “Biosafety in         |http://www.cdc.gov/OD/ohs/biosfty/bmbl5/BMBL_5th_Edition.pdf                                     |
|Microbiological and Biomedical            |                                                                                                 |
|Laboratories                              |                                                                                                 |
|Construction work permit regulations      |http://www.nysegov.com/citGuide.cfm?superCat=28&cat=29&content=main                              |
|Contractor materials must meet Federal    |http://www.osha.gov/comp-links.html                                                              |
|specifications, OSHA, NEC, environmental  |                                                                                                 |
|regulations such as EPA, and accredited   |                                                                                                 |
|standards of the American Association for |                                                                                                 |
|Laboratory Animal Care  (includes Energy  |                                                                                                 |
|and Recycled)                             |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.epa.gov/lawsregs/                                                                     |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.aaalac.org/accreditation/faq_process.cfm                                              |
|Cooling & ventilating services – Fed,     |http://www.aaalac.org/accreditation/faq_process.cfm                                              |
|State, Local and DHS regulations          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.epa.gov/lawsregs/                                                                     |
|Disposition of tree & excess vegetation   |http://www.ecode360.com/?custId=SO0452                                                           |
|regulatory requirements                   |                                                                                                 |
|Drug Testing                              |www.health.org/GDLNS-94.htm                                                                      |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://wmcare.samhsa.gov                                                                         |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |www.health.org/labs/index.htm                                                                    |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://wmcare.samhsa.gov                                                                         |
|Electrical services - Federal, State,     |http://www.nfpa.org/                                                                             |
|local codes & National Electric Code      |                                                                                                 |
|Environmental compliance –Federal, State &|www.epa.gov/superfund/policy/cercla.htm                                                          |
|local                                     |                                                                                                 |
|Response, Compensation, and Liability Act |                                                                                                 |
|of 1980 (CERCLA)                          |                                                                                                 |
|Resource Conservation and Recovery Act    |www.epa.gov/oecaerth/cleanup/rcra/index.html                                                     |
|(RCRA)                                    |                                                                                                 |
|New York State Department of Environmental|                                                                                                 |
|Compliance (NYSDEC)                       |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |www.dec.ny.gov/                                                                                  |
|Executive Orders:                         |                                                                                                 |
|Right of First Refusal                    |http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/nondisplacement_of_qualified_workers_under_service_con|
|                                          |tracts/                                                                                          |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|13423 – Strengthening Federal             |http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC&contentId=22395            |
|Environmental, Energy, and Transportation |                                                                                                 |
|Management                                |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|13514 – Federal Leadership in             |                                                                                                 |
|Environmental Energy and Economic         |                                                                                                 |
|Performance                               |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/President-Obama-signs-an-Executive-Order-Focused-on-Fe|
|                                          |deral-Leadership-in-Environmental-Energy-and-Economic-Performance/                               |
|Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)     |http://www.acquisition.gov/far/                                                                  |
|FAR 15                                    |http://farsite.hill.af.mil/reghtml/regs/far2afmcfars/fardfars/far/15.htm                         |
|FAR 39.2                                  |https://www.acquisition.gov/FAR/current/html/Subpart%2039_2.html                                 |
|FAR Parts 45, “Government Property”       |https://www.acquisition.gov/FAR/current/html/52_245.html                                         |
|52.245-1                                  |                                                                                                 |
|Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as  |https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfCFR/CFRSearch.cfm?CFRPart=50&showFR=1&subpar|
|amended under 21 USC 321-392              |tNode=21:1.0.1.1.19.1                                                                            |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|Food preparation, handling and cooking    |http://www.health.state.ny.us/                                                                   |
|equip & areas - local, state, Federal,    |                                                                                                 |
|USDA health regulations                   |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.suffolkcountyny.gov/departments/healthservices.aspx                                   |
|“Government Property”, Homeland Security  |http://law.justia.com/us/cfr/title48/48cfr3045_main_02.html                                      |
|Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) Chapter 3045|                                                                                                 |
|International Civil Aviation Organization |http://www.icao.int/                                                                             |
|(ICAO)                                    |                                                                                                 |
|IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations and      |www.iata.org/dgr.htm                                                                             |
|Infectious Substances Shipping Guidelines |                                                                                                 |
|MD 4010.2                                 |http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/opnbiz/FirstSource-OrderingGuide-Draft-.pdf                   |
|MD 4300.1                                 |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.uscg.mil/acquisITION/nais/RFP/SectionJ/DHS-MD-4300-1.pdf                              |
|National Fire Protection Association      |http://www.nfpa.org/aboutthecodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=2001                                  |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.nfpa.org/aboutthecodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=12                                    |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.nfpa.org/aboutthecodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=13                                    |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.nfpa.org/aboutthecodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=25                                    |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |http://www.nfpa.org/AboutTheCodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=51B                                   |
|Title 6 New York Codes, Rules and         |http://www.nga.org/Files/ppt/2001ASTNY.ppt                                                       |
|Regulations Part 610 (6 NYCRR 610)        |                                                                                                 |
|6NYCRR Part 360                           |                                                                                                 |
|6NYCRR Subpart 219-4                      |http://www.dec.ny.gov/regulations/8753.html                                                      |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |nysefc.org/docs/subpart_219-4_just_the_facts.pdf                                                 |
|New York State Department of Environmental|http://www.dec.ny.gov/regs/4434.html                                                             |
|Conservation (NYSDEC) Petroleum Bulk      |                                                                                                 |
|Storage/Major Oil storage Facility        |                                                                                                 |
|requirements                              |                                                                                                 |
|New York State Navigation Law (Article 12)|http://www.nyss.com/NYS.html                                                                     |
|Non-Radiological Hazardous Waste –        |Article 12.pdf                                                                                   |
|Federal, State, and local hazardous       |                                                                                                 |
|materials transportation and disposal     |                                                                                                 |
|rules and regulations                     |                                                                                                 |
|NSF Standard 49                           |http://www.cdc.gov/od/ohs/biosfty/bsc/BSC2000sec7.htm                                            |
|NY State & Suffolk County Dept of Health  |deq_sanitarycode.pdf                                                                             |
|Services potable water employee license   |                                                                                                 |
|requirements                              |                                                                                                 |
|Passport Photo Dept of State requirements |http://www.state.gov/                                                                            |
|Plumbing & Pipefitting specifications -   |http://www.dos.state.ny.us/code/part1222.htm                                                     |
|Federal, State, local codes, EPA, ASTM,   |                                                                                                 |
|etc and the uniform Plumbing Code         |                                                                                                 |
|Power generation sys & equip - State,     |http://www.dos.state.ny.us/code/                                                                 |
|local codes & National Electric Code      |                                                                                                 |
|Sheet metal & welding -  Federal, State,  |http://www.dos.state.ny.us/code/                                                                 |
|local codes, EPA & NFPA regulations       |                                                                                                 |
|Special processes (welding, heat treating,|www.aws.org/                                                                                     |
|nondestructive testing, coating)          |                                                                                                 |
|certification requirements (e.g. American |                                                                                                 |
|Welding Society, National Association of  |                                                                                                 |
|Corrosion Engineers, etc)                 |                                                                                                 |
|                                          | www.nace.org/                                                                                   |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|Suffolk County Department of Health       |http://www.co.suffolk.ny.us/upload/healthservices/deq_pc_sc_sanitarycode_article12_SOP.pdf       |
|Services Article 12                       |                                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                                 |
|Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure|http://www.epa.gov/region09/qa/pdfs/dqi/tclp.pdf                                                 |
|(TCLP) Metals                             |                                                                                                 |
|USDA Publication DM 9610 1 “USDA Security |www.ocio.usda.gov/directives/doc/DM9610-001.pdf                                                  |
|Policies and Procedures for Biosafety     |                                                                                                 |
|Level 3 Agents and Toxins                 |                                                                                                 |
|USCG Certificate of Operation Inspection  |http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div6&view=text&node=46:7.0.1.3.11.1&idno|
|requirement for vessel safety equipment   |=46                                                                                              |
|                                          |www.regulations.gov                                                                              |
|USDA’s General Technical Provision for    |www.usda.gov/da/hmmd/hmmgguidance.pdf                                                            |
|Asbestos Hazard Abatement Work (working,  |                                                                                                 |
|handling, & removal)                      |                                                                                                 |


WD 05-2373 (Rev.-8) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 08/04/2009

************************************************************************************

REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER  |        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

       THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT        |  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION

By direction of the Secretary of Labor |         WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION

                                       |         WASHINGTON D.C.  20210

                                       |

                                       |

                                       |

                                       | Wage Determination No.: 2005-2373

Shirley F. Ebbesen       Division of   |           Revision No.: 8

Director            Wage Determinations|       Date Of Revision: 07/29/2009

_______________________________________|____________________________________________

State: New York



Area: New York Counties of Nassau, Suffolk

____________________________________________________________________________________

          **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing**

OCCUPATION CODE - TITLE                                  FOOTNOTE               RATE

01000 - Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations

  01011 - Accounting Clerk I                                                   15.11

  01012 - Accounting Clerk II                                                  18.82

  01013 - Accounting Clerk III                                                 21.41

  01020 - Administrative Assistant                                             30.93

  01040 - Court Reporter                                                       21.19

  01051 - Data Entry Operator I                                                14.10

  01052 - Data Entry Operator II                                               15.37

  01060 - Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle                                            25.16

  01070 - Document Preparation Clerk                                           15.56

  01090 - Duplicating Machine Operator                                         15.56

  01111 - General Clerk I                                                      14.82

  01112 - General Clerk II                                                     16.94

  01113 - General Clerk III                                                    18.82

  01120 - Housing Referral Assistant                                           25.69

  01141 - Messenger Courier                                                    11.89

  01191 - Order Clerk I                                                        19.59

  01192 - Order Clerk II                                                       20.45

  01261 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) I                                   18.21

  01262 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) II                                  20.36

  01263 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) III                                 23.27

  01270 - Production Control Clerk                                             23.27

  01280 - Receptionist                                                         15.67

  01290 - Rental Clerk                                                         17.89

  01300 - Scheduler, Maintenance                                               21.18

  01311 - Secretary I                                                          21.18

  01312 - Secretary II                                                         24.82

  01313 - Secretary III                                                        25.69

  01320 - Service Order Dispatcher                                             20.00

  01410 - Supply Technician                                                    30.93

  01420 - Survey Worker                                                        20.79

  01531 - Travel Clerk I                                                       15.33

  01532 - Travel Clerk II                                                      16.61

  01533 - Travel Clerk III                                                     18.03

  01611 - Word Processor I                                                     17.46

  01612 - Word Processor II                                                    20.16

  01613 - Word Processor III                                                   21.93

05000 - Automotive Service Occupations

  05005 - Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass                                 27.14

  05010 - Automotive  Electrician                                              27.14

  05040 - Automotive Glass Installer                                           26.01

  05070 - Automotive Worker                                                    26.01

  05110 - Mobile Equipment Servicer                                            19.81

  05130 - Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic                                       28.38

  05160 - Motor Equipment Metal Worker                                         26.01

  05190 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic                                               28.27

  05220 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper                                        22.05

  05250 - Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker                                      24.88

  05280 - Motor Vehicle Wrecker                                                26.01

  05310 - Painter, Automotive                                                  27.14

  05340 - Radiator Repair Specialist                                           26.01

  05370 - Tire Repairer                                                        16.69

  05400 - Transmission Repair Specialist                                       28.27

07000 - Food Preparation And Service Occupations

  07010 - Baker                                                                18.55

  07041 - Cook I                                                               16.75

  07042 - Cook II                                                              18.23

  07070 - Dishwasher                                                           13.67

  07130 - Food Service Worker                                                  13.67

  07210 - Meat Cutter                                                          22.64

  07260 - Waiter/Waitress                                                      14.45

09000 - Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations

  09010 - Electrostatic Spray Painter                                          21.10

  09040 - Furniture Handler                                                    16.03

  09080 - Furniture Refinisher                                                 21.10

  09090 - Furniture Refinisher Helper                                          17.91

  09110 - Furniture Repairer, Minor                                            19.40

  09130 - Upholsterer                                                          21.10

11000 - General Services And Support Occupations

  11030 - Cleaner, Vehicles                                                    13.67

  11060 - Elevator Operator                                                    13.67

  11090 - Gardener                                                             18.74

  11122 - Housekeeping Aide                                                    15.05

  11150 - Janitor                                                              15.70

  11210 - Laborer, Grounds Maintenance                                         15.89

  11240 - Maid or Houseman                                                     13.68

  11260 - Pruner                                                               14.75

  11270 - Tractor Operator                                                     17.86

  11330 - Trail Maintenance Worker                                             15.89

  11360 - Window Cleaner                                                       18.07

12000 - Health Occupations

  12010 - Ambulance Driver                                                     24.73

  12011 - Breath Alcohol Technician                                            22.61

  12012 - Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant                           23.30

  12015 - Certified Physical Therapist Assistant                               21.63

  12020 - Dental Assistant                                                     16.58

  12025 - Dental Hygienist                                                     32.86

  12030 - EKG Technician                                                       28.08

  12035 - Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist                                  28.08

  12040 - Emergency Medical Technician                                         25.29

  12071 - Licensed Practical Nurse I                                           23.69

  12072 - Licensed Practical Nurse II                                          23.81

  12073 - Licensed Practical Nurse III                                         23.58

  12100 - Medical Assistant                                                    16.66

  12130 - Medical Laboratory Technician                                        23.34

  12160 - Medical Record Clerk                                                 18.71

  12190 - Medical Record Technician                                            20.55

  12195 - Medical Transcriptionist                                             17.99

  12210 - Nuclear Medicine Technologist                                        35.64

  12221 - Nursing Assistant I                                                  13.17

  12222 - Nursing Assistant II                                                 14.72

  12223 - Nursing Assistant III                                                15.82

  12224 - Nursing Assistant IV                                                 16.08

  12235 - Optical Dispenser                                                    23.60

  12236 - Optical Technician                                                   15.46

  12250 - Pharmacy Technician                                                  15.87

  12280 - Phlebotomist                                                         23.02

  12305 - Radiologic Technologist                                              28.08

  12311 - Registered Nurse I                                                   32.07

  12312 - Registered Nurse II                                                  37.21

  12313 - Registered Nurse II, Specialist                                      37.21

  12314 - Registered Nurse III                                                 46.90

  12315 - Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist                                    46.90

  12316 - Registered Nurse IV                                                  56.19

  12317 - Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing)                                 26.17

13000 - Information And Arts Occupations

  13011 - Exhibits Specialist I                                                26.50

  13012 - Exhibits Specialist II                                               31.89

  13013 - Exhibits Specialist III                                              40.66

  13041 - Illustrator I                                                        28.35

  13042 - Illustrator II                                                       33.23

  13043 - Illustrator III                                                      40.66

  13047 - Librarian                                                            37.25

  13050 - Library Aide/Clerk                                                   15.79

  13054 - Library Information Technology Systems                               31.89

  Administrator

  13058 - Library Technician                                                   25.62

  13061 - Media Specialist I                                                   22.22

  13062 - Media Specialist II                                                  24.75

  13063 - Media Specialist III                                                 27.46

  13071 - Photographer I                                                       20.66

  13072 - Photographer II                                                      24.62

  13073 - Photographer III                                                     32.88

  13074 - Photographer IV                                                      44.26

  13075 - Photographer V                                                       50.85

  13110 - Video Teleconference Technician                                      22.73

14000 - Information Technology Occupations

  14041 - Computer Operator I                                                  18.85

  14042 - Computer Operator II                                                 21.07

  14043 - Computer Operator III                                                23.58

  14044 - Computer Operator IV                                                 26.13

  14045 - Computer Operator V                                                  28.92

  14071 - Computer Programmer I                          (see 1)               26.22

  14072 - Computer Programmer II                         (see 1)

  14073 - Computer Programmer III                        (see 1)

  14074 - Computer Programmer IV                         (see 1)

  14101 - Computer Systems Analyst I                     (see 1)

  14102 - Computer Systems Analyst II                    (see 1)

  14103 - Computer Systems Analyst III                   (see 1)

  14150 - Peripheral Equipment Operator                                        18.85

  14160 - Personal Computer Support Technician                                 26.13

15000 - Instructional Occupations

  15010 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Non-Rated)                      37.07

  15020 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated)                          43.48

  15030 - Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot)                         51.11

  15050 - Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor                      37.07

  15060 - Educational Technologist                                             35.73

  15070 - Flight Instructor (Pilot)                                            51.11

  15080 - Graphic Artist                                                       30.28

  15090 - Technical Instructor                                                 32.16

  15095 - Technical Instructor/Course Developer                                39.22

  15110 - Test Proctor                                                         25.56

  15120 - Tutor                                                                25.56

16000 - Laundry, Dry-Cleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations

  16010 - Assembler                                                            11.15

  16030 - Counter Attendant                                                    11.15

  16040 - Dry Cleaner                                                          13.72

  16070 - Finisher, Flatwork, Machine                                          11.15

  16090 - Presser, Hand                                                        11.15

  16110 - Presser, Machine, Drycleaning                                        11.15

  16130 - Presser, Machine, Shirts                                             11.15

  16160 - Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry                           11.15

  16190 - Sewing Machine Operator                                              14.57

  16220 - Tailor                                                               15.39

  16250 - Washer, Machine                                                      12.09

19000 - Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations

  19010 - Machine-Tool Operator (Tool Room)                                    20.87

  19040 - Tool And Die Maker                                                   24.46

21000 - Materials Handling And Packing Occupations

  21020 - Forklift Operator                                                    16.96

  21030 - Material Coordinator                                                 22.40

  21040 - Material Expediter                                                   22.40

  21050 - Material Handling Laborer                                            14.62

  21071 - Order Filler                                                         16.34

  21080 - Production Line Worker (Food Processing)                             16.96

  21110 - Shipping Packer                                                      15.28

  21130 - Shipping/Receiving Clerk                                             15.28

  21140 - Store Worker I                                                       14.45

  21150 - Stock Clerk                                                          18.11

  21210 - Tools And Parts Attendant                                            16.96

  21410 - Warehouse Specialist                                                 16.96

23000 - Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations

  23010 - Aerospace Structural Welder                                          26.94

  23021 - Aircraft Mechanic I                                                  25.93

  23022 - Aircraft Mechanic II                                                 26.94

  23023 - Aircraft Mechanic III                                                27.93

  23040 - Aircraft Mechanic Helper                                             20.95

  23050 - Aircraft, Painter                                                    24.75

  23060 - Aircraft Servicer                                                    23.17

  23080 - Aircraft Worker                                                      23.91

  23110 - Appliance Mechanic                                                   21.10

  23120 - Bicycle Repairer                                                     17.94

  23125 - Cable Splicer                                                        35.97

  23130 - Carpenter, Maintenance                                               30.97

  23140 - Carpet Layer                                                         24.76

  23160 - Electrician, Maintenance                                             37.18

  23181 - Electronics Technician Maintenance I                                 23.44

  23182 - Electronics Technician Maintenance II                                27.39

  23183 - Electronics Technician Maintenance III                               28.51

  23260 - Fabric Worker                                                        23.47

  23290 - Fire Alarm System Mechanic                                           21.92

  23310 - Fire Extinguisher Repairer                                           22.51

  23311 - Fuel Distribution System Mechanic                                    29.94

  23312 - Fuel Distribution System Operator                                    24.73

  23370 - General Maintenance Worker                                           24.67

  23380 - Ground Support Equipment Mechanic                                    25.93

  23381 - Ground Support Equipment Servicer                                    23.17

  23382 - Ground Support Equipment Worker                                      23.91

  23391 - Gunsmith I                                                           22.51

  23392 - Gunsmith II                                                          25.12

  23393 - Gunsmith III                                                         27.25

  23410 - Heating, Ventilation And Air-Conditioning                            25.29

  Mechanic

  23411 - Heating, Ventilation And Air Contditioning                           26.30

  Mechanic (Research Facility)

  23430 - Heavy Equipment Mechanic                                             24.95

  23440 - Heavy Equipment Operator                                             32.56

  23460 - Instrument Mechanic                                                  29.17

  23465 - Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic                                          26.21

  23470 - Laborer                                                              15.95

  23510 - Locksmith                                                            21.10

  23530 - Machinery Maintenance Mechanic                                       23.95

  23550 - Machinist, Maintenance                                               21.92

  23580 - Maintenance Trades Helper                                            17.71

  23591 - Metrology Technician I                                               29.17

  23592 - Metrology Technician II                                              30.31

  23593 - Metrology Technician III                                             29.77

  23640 - Millwright                                                           26.52

  23710 - Office Appliance Repairer                                            21.80

  23760 - Painter, Maintenance                                                 26.70

  23790 - Pipefitter, Maintenance                                              32.44

  23810 - Plumber, Maintenance                                                 31.23

  23820 - Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic                                         27.25

  23850 - Rigger                                                               23.53

  23870 - Scale Mechanic                                                       25.12

  23890 - Sheet-Metal Worker, Maintenance                                      29.81

  23910 - Small Engine Mechanic                                                20.92

  23931 - Telecommunications Mechanic I                                        30.91

  23932 - Telecommunications Mechanic II                                       32.20

  23950 - Telephone Lineman                                                    33.44

  23960 - Welder, Combination, Maintenance                                     21.92

  23965 - Well Driller                                                         22.73

  23970 - Woodcraft Worker                                                     27.25

  23980 - Woodworker                                                           18.57

24000 - Personal Needs Occupations

  24570 - Child Care Attendant                                                 13.05

  24580 - Child Care Center Clerk                                              16.30

  24610 - Chore Aide                                                           12.79

  24620 - Family Readiness And Support Services                                14.89

  Coordinator

  24630 - Homemaker                                                            16.85

25000 - Plant And System Operations Occupations

  25010 - Boiler Tender                                                        28.06

  25040 - Sewage Plant Operator                                                24.09

  25070 - Stationary Engineer                                                  28.06

  25190 - Ventilation Equipment Tender                                         21.56

  25210 - Water Treatment Plant Operator                                       25.53

27000 - Protective Service Occupations

  27004 - Alarm Monitor                                                        18.81

  27007 - Baggage Inspector                                                    17.35

  27008 - Corrections Officer                                                  30.97

  27010 - Court Security Officer                                               30.31

  27030 - Detection Dog Handler                                                20.36

  27040 - Detention Officer                                                    30.97

  27070 - Firefighter                                                          28.96

  27101 - Guard I                                                              17.35

  27102 - Guard II                                                             20.36

  27131 - Police Officer I                                                     32.37

  27132 - Police Officer II                                                    35.94

28000 - Recreation Occupations

  28041 - Carnival Equipment Operator                                          15.96

  28042 - Carnival Equipment Repairer                                          16.75

  28043 - Carnival Equpment Worker                                             13.67

  28210 - Gate Attendant/Gate Tender                                           14.99

  28310 - Lifeguard                                                            13.30

  28350 - Park Attendant (Aide)                                                16.78

  28510 - Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant                            18.95

  28515 - Recreation Specialist                                                20.80

  28630 - Sports Official                                                      13.35

  28690 - Swimming Pool Operator                                               20.98

29000 - Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services

  29010 - Blocker And Bracer                                                   25.12

  29020 - Hatch Tender                                                         25.12

  29030 - Line Handler                                                         25.12

  29041 - Stevedore I                                                          23.84

  29042 - Stevedore II                                                         29.86

30000 - Technical Occupations

  30010 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO)   (see 2)               39.50

  30011 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO)  (see 2)               27.24

  30012 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2)               30.00

  30021 - Archeological Technician I                                           22.43

  30022 - Archeological Technician II                                          26.50

  30023 - Archeological Technician III                                         31.09

  30030 - Cartographic Technician                                              29.15

  30040 - Civil Engineering Technician                                         25.14

  30061 - Drafter/CAD Operator I                                               19.31

  30062 - Drafter/CAD Operator II                                              26.50

  30063 - Drafter/CAD Operator III                                             29.42

  30064 - Drafter/CAD Operator IV                                              31.09

  30081 - Engineering Technician I                                             19.98

  30082 - Engineering Technician II                                            22.47

  30083 - Engineering Technician III                                           25.28

  30084 - Engineering Technician IV                                            31.22

  30085 - Engineering Technician V                                             38.08

  30086 - Engineering Technician VI                                            46.20

  30090 - Environmental Technician                                             21.10

  30210 - Laboratory Technician                                                21.10

  30240 - Mathematical Technician                                              31.09

  30361 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant I                                          22.19

  30362 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant II                                         27.47

  30363 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant III                                        33.62

  30364 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV                                         40.67

  30390 - Photo-Optics Technician                                              28.11

  30461 - Technical Writer I                                                   25.56

  30462 - Technical Writer II                                                  31.28

  30463 - Technical Writer III                                                 39.84

  30491 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I                               25.11

  30492 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II                              30.38

  30493 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III                             36.41

  30494 - Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort                                       25.11

  30495 - Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel                                     25.11

  30620 - Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or        (see 2)               26.78

  Surface Programs

  30621 - Weather Observer, Senior                       (see 2)               27.05

31000 - Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations

  31020 - Bus Aide                                                             16.40

  31030 - Bus Driver                                                           19.89

  31043 - Driver Courier                                                       16.72

  31260 - Parking and Lot Attendant                                             9.96

  31290 - Shuttle Bus Driver                                                   17.70

  31310 - Taxi Driver                                                          13.37

  31361 - Truckdriver, Light                                                   17.75

  31362 - Truckdriver, Medium                                                  18.76

  31363 - Truckdriver, Heavy                                                   23.80

  31364 - Truckdriver, Tractor-Trailer                                         23.80

99000 - Miscellaneous Occupations

  99030 - Cashier                                                              18.74

  99050 - Desk Clerk                                                           12.98

  99095 - Embalmer                                                             27.84

  99251 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker I                                        15.21

  99252 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker II                                       15.97

  99310 - Mortician                                                            34.64

  99410 - Pest Controller                                                      18.15

  99510 - Photofinishing Worker                                                14.75

  99710 - Recycling Laborer                                                    17.98

  99711 - Recycling Specialist                                                 20.33

  99730 - Refuse Collector                                                     21.17

  99810 - Sales Clerk                                                          14.70

  99820 - School Crossing Guard                                                15.04

  99830 - Survey Party Chief                                                   26.11

  99831 - Surveying Aide                                                       15.32

  99832 - Surveying Technician                                                 20.21

  99840 - Vending Machine Attendant                                            23.41

  99841 - Vending Machine Repairer                                             25.44

  99842 - Vending Machine Repairer Helper                                      21.46





____________________________________________________________________________________



ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS:



HEALTH & WELFARE: $3.35 per hour or $134.00 per week or $580.66 per month



VACATION: 2 weeks paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or

successor; 3 weeks after 5 years, 4 weeks after 15 years, and 5 weeks after 25 years.

  Length of service includes the whole span of continuous service with the present

contractor or successor, wherever employed, and with the predecessor contractors in

the performance of similar work at the same Federal facility.  (Reg. 29 CFR 4.173)



HOLIDAYS: A minimum of eleven paid holidays per year:  New Year's Day, Martin

Luther King Jr's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day,

Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and

Christmas Day.  A contractor may substitute for any of the named holidays another

day off with pay in accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved.)

(See 29 CFR 4.174)





THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING:



1)  COMPUTER EMPLOYEES:  Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does

not apply to any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive,

administrative, or professional employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541.  Because

most Computer System Analysts and Computer Programmers who are compensated at a rate

not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $455 per

week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R. 541.

400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations

within those job families.  In addition, because this wage determination may not

list a wage rate for some or all occupations within those job families if the survey

data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the occupation equals or exceeds

$27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt employees.  



For example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties

within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer

occupations for which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate,

then the wage rate for that employee must be conformed in accordance with the

conformance procedures described in the conformance note included on this wage

determination.



Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer

industry, job titles are not determinative of the application of the computer

professional exemption.  Therefore, the exemption applies only to computer employees

who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary duty consists of:

    (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including

consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional

specifications;

    (2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or

modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and

related to user or system design specifications;

    (3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer

programs related to machine operating systems; or

    (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which

requires the same level of skills.  (29 C.F.R. 541.400).



2)  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS - NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY:  If you

work at night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential

and receive an additional 10% of basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am.

 If you are a full-time employed (40 hours a week) and Sunday is part of your

regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay plus a Sunday

premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime

(i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered

overtime work).



HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees

employed in a position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or

in close proximity to ordinance, explosives, and incendiary materials.  This

includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and pressing of sensitive

ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black powder

and photoflash powder.  All dry-house activities involving propellants or explosives.

  Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations

on sensitive ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials.  All operations

involving regrading and cleaning of artillery ranges.



A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that

represents a low degree of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to

ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to) explosives and incendiary materials

which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or arms of the

employee engaged in the operation,  irritation of the skin, minor burns and the

like; minimal damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used.

All operations involving, unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and

incendiary ordnance material other than small arms ammunition.  These differentials

are only applicable to work that has been specifically designated by the agency for

ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay.



** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE **



If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract

(either by the terms of the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or

local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such uniforms and maintaining (by

laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be borne by an

employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage

determination. 

The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the

following standards as compliance:



The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an

adequate number of uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual

cost of the uniforms.  In addition, where uniform cleaning and maintenance is made

the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and subcontractors subject to

this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective bargaining

agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary

affirmative proof as to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning

and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per week (or $.67 cents per day).  However, in

those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of "wash and wear"

materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do

not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial

laundering in order to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms

of the Government contract, by the contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work,

there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed for uniform maintenance costs.



The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the

"Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006,

unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are available on the Internet. A

links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at http://www.dol.

gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations On-Line (WDOL) Web site at

http://wdol.gov/.



REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form

1444 (SF 1444)}



Conformance Process:



The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is

not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to

be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage

determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a reasonable

relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted

classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination.  Such

conformed classes of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the

fringe benefits as are determined.  Such conforming process shall be initiated by

the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es)

of employees.  The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall

be retroactive to the commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)}

When multiple wage determinations are included in a contract, a separate SF 1444

should be prepared for each wage determination to which a class(es) is to be

conformed.



The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows:



1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed

occupation(s) and computes a proposed rate(s).



2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order

proposed classification title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each

proposed classification(s), job description(s), and rationale for proposed wage

rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the

authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized

representative, the employees themselves.  This report should be submitted to the

contracting officer no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees

performs any contract work.





3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report

of the action, together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent

information including the position of the contractor and the employees, to the Wage

and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,

for review.  (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4).



4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or

disapproves the action via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or

notifies the contracting officer that additional time will be required to process

the request.



5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor.



6) The contractor informs the affected employees.



Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.



When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of

Occupations" (the Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure

that duties requested are not performed by a classification already listed in the

wage determination.  Remember, it is not the job title, but the required tasks that

determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination.

Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide

classifications listed in the wage determination.















COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT



BETWEEN



FIELD SUPPORT SERVICES, INC.



AND



INTERNATIONAL  OF OPERATING ENGINEERS



LOCAL 30



TERMS OF AGREEMENT


INDEX



PREAMBLE	3

ARTICLE I 	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES	3

ARTICLE II	UNION RECOGNITION	4

ARTICLE III 	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	5

ARTICLE IV 	CHECK-OFF AND HOLD HARMLESS	5

ARTICLE V 	WAGES	6

ARTICLE VI 	HOURS	6

ARTICLE VII 	HOLIDAYS	7

ARTICLE VIII	HIRING	8

ARTICLE IX 	SENIORITY	9

ARTICLE X 	SHOP STEWARD	10

ARTICLE XI 	GRIEVANCE	11

ARTICLE XII	STRIKES/LOCKOUTS	13

ARTICLE XIII 	VACATION	13

ARTICLE XIV 	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	14

ARTICLE XV	SICK LEAVE BENEFIT AND VERIFICATION OF ILLNESS	14

ARTICLE XVI	FRINGE BENEFITS	15

ARTICLE XVII 	JURY DUTY	15

ARTICLE XVIII 	DEATH IN FAMILY	15

ARTICLE XIX 	VEHICLE USE 	16

ARTICLE XX 	SAFETY EQUIPMENT	16

ARTICLE XXI 	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES	16

ARTICLE XXII 	SEVERABILITY	16

ARTICLE XXIII 	SUBCONTRACTING	16

ARTICLE XXIV 	JURISDICTION	17

ARTICLE XXV	BARGAINING UNIT WORK	17

ARTICLE XXVI 	DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE	18

ARTICLE XXVII 	BARGAINING ON EXCLUDED MATTERS	18

ARTICLE XXVIII 	DURATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT	18

SCHEDULE “A”	25

SCHEDULE “B”	27
	AGREEMENT made this ____ day of _____________ 2007 between Field Support Services, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as “FSSI” the “Company” or “Employer”) located at  and International Union of Operating Engineers.  Local Unions 30, 30A, 30B AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the “”) located at .



PREAMBLE



	It is the intent and purpose of the Company and the Union to set forth herein the entire Agreement with respect to wages, hours and working conditions as it relates to operation and maintenance activities in support of the United States Department of Homeland Security (USDHS), Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC) as contracted to FSSI.  Further it is the intent of the parties to secure maximum efficiency of the operation and production from the employees; to prevent strikes and lockouts and to facilitate peaceful adjustment of grievances and unnecessary and avoidable delays and expense so far as possible.  Furthermore it is recognized by the Agreement to be the duty of the Company, the  and the employees to cooperate fully, both individually and collectively to meet the requirements of the customer.  The  recognizes that the Company is a contractor to the USDHS at the PIADC and that the Company is required at all times to fully meet its obligations as a contractor.



ARTICLE I – DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES



	A.	It being understood that the employees shall perform a fair and honest day’s work.



	B.	That there shall be no restriction of the use of machinery, tools or appliances.



	C.	That there shall be no restriction of the use of any raw or manufactured material.



	D.	Union Business Representative: The Business Representative of the  shall have access to the facilities at PIADC for the purposes of adjusting disputes, investigating working conditions and ascertaining that the Agreement is being adhered to providing that prior permission to visit is received from the Project Manager.  Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Upon entering the facility, the Business Representative shall report to the Project Manager or designee, so that an escort can be provided.  The Company shall not be required to provide a special boat run for these visits, to alter the schedule of the boat runs or make special accommodations such as adjusting work hours, shift schedules or break times.



	E.	Whenever any words used in this Agreement in the masculine gender, they shall be construed as though they were also used in the feminine gender.




ARTICLE II – UNION RECOGNITION



	The Company hereby recognizes the  as the Exclusive Bargaining Representative for the purpose of bargaining collectively as required by Section 8D of the NLRA with respect to wages, hours and other conditions of employment, for the Company’s employees assigned to the following bargaining unit.



	Included: All full-time and regular part-time Able Bodied Seaman, Able Bodied Seaman/Mechanic, Bio-Systems Mechanic, Boiler Operator, Carpenter/Painter (inside lab), Carpenter/Mason/Painter, Cook I, Cook II, Custodian, Custodian/Lab Support, Decontamination Plant Operator, Electrician, Electronic Technician, Food Service Worker, General Maintenance Worker, Glassware Worker, Grounds Laborer/Laborer, HAZMAT Technician, Heavy Equipment Operator, HVAC Mechanic, Laundry Worker, Lead Boiler Operator, Lead Decontamination Plant Operator, Lead Electrician, Lead Motor Vehicle Mechanic, Lead Water/Wastewater Plant Operator, Maintenance Helper, Maintenance Mechanic, Marine Mechanic, Metal Worker, Motor Vehicle Mechanic, MP2 Tech, Ordinary Seaman, Pipefitter/Plumber, Trades Helper, Truck Driver, Warehouse Clerk/Forklift Operator,  WW/PW Plant Operator, and WW/PW Assistant employed by the Employer at its Plum Island, New York Facility.



	Excluded: All other employees including Secretary, Payroll Clerk, Accounting Clerk III, Personnel/Accounts Payable Clerk, Secretary (Quality Assurance/Safety), Safety and Occupational Health Specialists, Clerk-Typist I, Receptionist/Customer Service, EMT/Guards, Guards, Photographer, Hospitality Manager, Transportation Manager, Technical Systems Manager, Systems Technician, and Supervisors as defined in the Act.



	The term “employees” as used herein, unless the context otherwise indicates, means the employees covered by this Agreement.  Employees who have been employed by the Employer for a period of at least thirty (30) days shall be required to become members of the  as a condition of continued employment.  This provision does not apply to temporary employees as defined in Article XXIV.



	Any employees covered by this Agreement, who are, or who during the term hereof become members of the Union shall continue to be members of and maintain themselves in good standing in the Union.  Written notice by the Union to the Employer that an employee is no longer a member in good standing in the  shall be sufficient for the Employer to cause the dismissal of such employee within thirty (30) days.  The Employer and Union shall not discriminate against any employee by reason of his membership or non-membership in the .




	For the purpose of this Agreement, an employee shall be considered a member of the  in good standing if he tenders his periodic dues, initiation fees and assessments uniformly required as a condition of Union membership.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of joining the Union, Employees may make payments to the  that are equivalent to Union dues, less political expenditures.  



ARTICLE III – MANAGEMENT RIGHTS



	Retention of Management prerogatives, except as expressly modified or restricted by a specific provision of this Agreement, all statutory and inherent management rights, prerogatives and functions customarily and traditionally exercised by the Company to operate its business and direct its employees are hereby expressly reserved and vested exclusively by and to the Company.  These rights include, but are not limited to, the right to determine prices of services, volumes of production and methods of financing, to drop or add a product line, to sell, merge, consolidate or lease the business, or any part thereof; to determine the qualifications of employees to perform work, including the right to administer testing as needed to confirm employees’ qualifications, to establish, eliminate, revise or continue policies, practices or procedures; the right to determine, and from time to time predetermine, the number, location, relocation and types of its operations, and the methods processes and materials to be employed; to discontinue processes or operations or to discontinue their performance by employees of the Company; to determine the number of hours per day and per week operations shall be carried on; to select and assign work to such employees in accordance with the requirements determined by Management; to determine the existence or the lack of work; to make and enforce reasonable rules for disciplining employees for cause; to promote employees; to change or eliminate existing jobs or create new jobs; and to take such measures as Management of the Company may determine to be necessary for the orderly, efficient and profitable operations of the business.



ARTICLE IV – CHECK-OFF AND HOLD HARMLESS



	A.	Upon receiving the written authorization of an employee, the Company agrees to deduct from each employee’s paycheck each month membership dues, initiation fees and assessments, or the equivalent dues as described in Article II, in such amounts as shall be fixed pursuant to the by-laws and constitution of the Union during the full term of this Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof.  The Company agrees that such deductions shall, after deduction, be forwarded monthly to the duly authorized officer of the  along with a list of names from whom the deductions were made.



	B.	The  agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability, as well as the reimbursement of attorneys’ fees and costs, arising from the obligations and executions thereof of this article and Article II as stated above.




ARTICLE V – WAGES



	A.	The rates of pay for each classification of employees are attached and outlined in Schedule “A” and made part of this Agreement.



	The following pay increases shall be effective for all employees:



	Effective Date			1/1/		1/1/		1/1/

	Increase in Hourly Rate	%		%		%



	B.	No employee shall suffer a reduction in wages because of the signing of this Agreement.  All rates and increases herein stated are minimums and shall not prevent the Employer from paying higher than the minimum for such things as special skills, seniority, lead pay, etc.



	C.	A Shift Differential – A shift differential shall be paid on all hours worked on second and third shifts at the rate of % of the hourly wages of those employees affected.



ARTICLE VI – HOURS



	A.	The Employer shall be free to fix the hours of employment, provided that a normal workweek for such employee shall consist of forty (40) hours, divided into either five (5) days of eight (8) hours each or four (4) days of ten (10) hours each.  Management will give seven (7) days notice prior to changing work schedules.  The notice requirement does not pertain to emergencies or employee illness.  The employee’s regular shift shall not be changed simply to avoid overtime.  Employees will give seven (7) days notice when requesting shift changes



	B.	Overtime will be paid at time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.  Commencing January 1, 2005, overtime will be paid at time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.  However, employees who are scheduled to work ten (10) hours per day shall be paid overtime for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) consecutive hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.  There shall be no stacking of overtime. Illustration #1.  Should an employee be scheduled to work eight (8) hours and actually work ten (10) consecutive hours in a workday, for a total of 42 hours in a workweek, they will receive overtime compensation (time and a half) for a total of two hours.  Illustration #2.  Should the employee be assigned to work 6:00 p.m. Monday to 2:00 a.m. on Tuesday and Tuesday 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Wednesday, the employee would not be entitled to overtime for working on Tuesday because the nine (9) hours of work on Tuesday were not consecutive.  



	C.	Employees who are called in and are required by the Employer to perform overtime work shall receive for the work so performed the overtime compensation provided herein, but in no case less than the applicable overtime rate for four (4) hours of work. The provisions herein shall in no event apply to scheduled overtime work.  There shall be no stacking of overtime.







	.	The Company retains the right to assign the least senior qualified person to any classification.  All persons assigned to other than their classification for a minimum of 20% of the workweek shall be paid at the higher rate for the time worked, however, if the position is a lower rate they shall be paid at their current rate.  Employees in training shall be paid at their current rate.



	.	Overtime shall be distributed equitably among Employees of occupational classifications to the extent practicable and consistent with efficient operation, except that employees performing the work during their regular eight (8) hour shift shall be offered first.



One (1) fifteen minute paid break may be taken in a four-hour shift period.  There will be one-half (½) hour lunch break, without pay, per shift.



ARTICLE VII – HOLIDAYS



	A.	Employees shall be paid for ten (10) holidays.  The holidays are attached and set forth in Schedule “B” and made a part of this Agreement.  The exact dates that the holidays are to be recognized will be established each year. 



	B.	It is the intent and purpose of the Employer to give as many employees as possible these days off, but the Union recognizes and agrees that certain employees may be required to work on said days in order to maintain the facilities at .  Should an employee be required to work on a holiday, the employee shall be paid for the holiday and shall be compensated at time and one-half (1½) his regular rate for work performed on that day; i.e., a total of two and one-half (2½) times the employee’s regular hourly rate.



	C.	Employees not scheduled to work on any holiday shall receive one day’s pay for said day.





ARTICLE VIII – HIRING



	A(1).  The Union has established an Employment Procedure to be administered and financed by the .



	A(2).	Neither the Union in referring, nor the Employer in hiring, shall discriminate against an applicant because of membership or non-membership in the .  It is the principle implicit in the relationships of the Company and the  that no employee or applicant for employment will be discriminated against because of such individual’s race, age, religion, gender, national origin, disability, Veteran, or other protected status.  Preferences in employment will be provided to qualified Veterans and qualified Arctic Slope Regional Corporation (“ASRC”) shareholders.



	A(3).	When the Company determines to fill a job within the Bargaining Unit, the Company will post a notice of the vacancy or job opening on the employee bulletin boards for five (5) work days.  Subject to the provisions elsewhere in this Agreement, any employee may submit a bid for the job to the Project Manager, in writing, during the posting period.  The Company shall not be required to post a notice of vacancy of job opening for a particular job more than once every thirty (30) days.  Any bid submitted within a posting period shall remain valid for thirty (30) days.



	The Employer shall notify the steward and the Union in writing of all bargaining unit position vacancies, including part-time and recalls, and shall afford the  the same five (5) work day posting period to refer applicants for the vacancy before the Employer hires from any other sources.  In referring applicants, after persons on layoff from the Employer have been recalled, the Union shall give preference to persons with prior experience in the industry, and persons living in the communities the Employer serves, including eastern Long Island and Connecticut, and must meet the qualifications required by the Employer for a particular job vacancy.



	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer, after giving notice to the , may fill vacancies if it must fill the position without delay to meet an emergency.



	Disqualification of bidder.  An employee who successfully bids and fills an internal job is on probation in the new position for 60 days.  If the employee is unable to perform the job to which he bid to the Company’s satisfaction during the probation period, he shall be returned to the job classification he held at the time submitting the bid.



	A(4).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer retains the exclusive right to reject any applicant for employment, regardless of whether the applicant is referred by the  or submits an application through another source.  The Company’s rejection of an applicant shall be final and not subject to the Grievance and Arbitration provisions of this Agreement.



	B.	Promotions from one job classification covered by this Agreement to another job classification covered by this Agreement shall be made on the basis of seniority where, in the opinion of the Employer, the ability and performance of the employees eligible for such promotion is equal.  The Employer shall give notice of any such promotion in advance to the Union so the , if it desires, can discuss such promotion with the Employer.  The judgment of the Employer, however, shall be final and not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration provisions of this Agreement.



	C.	Any changes in staffing required by USDHS shall be final and not subject to the Grievance and Arbitration provisions of this Agreement.



ARTICLE IX – SENIORITY



	A.	Site seniority is defined as a Bargaining Unit employee’s continuous service at the PIADC site as a contractor employee of FSSI and its predecessors.



	B.	Job classification seniority is defined as the continuous service in their job classification with FSSI.



	C.	The Company shall supply the  with a job classification and site seniority list of the employees covered by this Agreement.  Such list(s) shall be revised semi-annually.



	D.	Layoff.  The Company will determine the time of layoffs, the number of employees to be laid off, and in what job classification layoffs will occur.  If a layoff should occur, the  shall be notified at least one (1) week in advance.  Such layoffs shall be made by job classification seniority within the job classification affected.  The employee with the least job classification seniority shall be the first to be laid off.  Any employee subject to layoff may exercise site seniority in the following order:



		1.	Within any job classification in which an employee had previously established classification seniority and is still qualified.



		2.	In the case of a layoff, probationary employees shall be laid off first.



		3.	If, at the time of layoff, any eligible employee refuses to exercise their seniority rights, such employee shall retain seniority rights to be recalled.



	Such employee must notify the Company of an intention to exercise seniority rights within five (5) calendar days of the layoff notice.  An employee so displaced may similarly exercise seniority rights to displace another employee in accordance with the same criteria.



	E.	Termination of Seniority.  Any employee’s seniority shall be terminated and his rights under this Agreement forfeited for the following reasons:



		1.	Discharge for just cause, quit, retirement or resignation;



		2.	Failure to give notice or intent to return to work after recall within five (5) working days, or failure to return to work on the date specified for recall, as set forth in the written notice of recall;



		3.	Time lapse of twelve (12) months, or for a period equal to the employee’s seniority (whichever is less) since the last day of actual work for the Company or its predecessors.



		4. 	Failure to return to work upon expiration of a leave of absence.



		5.	Absence in excess of two (2) years due to physical disability, provided, however, that where such absence is due to compensable disability incurred during the course of such employment, such absence shall not break continuous service, provided that such individual has returned to work within a seven (7) calendar day period after final payment of statutory compensation for such disability or after the end of the period used in calculating a lump sum payment.  Upon return to work from a period of disability, the employee must present appropriate documentation verifying his availability date and medical fitness to return to work in his last classification worked.



	F.	Recall



		1.	Order of Recall.  If the Company determines to fill job vacancies for the purpose of reinstatement in a job classification from which employees are laid off, such employees, eligible for recall, shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff, according to seniority.



		2.	Notice of Recall.  The Company will forward Notice of Recall by certified mail to the last known address of the employee reflected on Company records.  The employee must within five (5) working days of delivery or attempted delivery of the Notice of Recall, notify the Company of his intent to return to work on the date specified for recall and thereafter, return to work on such date.



	G.	Seniority.	If application of the preceding sections results in two (2) or more employees having the same seniority, the employee whose last four (4) digits in his social security number is the largest shall be deemed more senior (e.g., 4231 is larger than 1234).  Seniority shall be applicable only as expressly provided in this Agreement.



ARTICLE X – SHOP STEWARD



	A.	The Company agrees to recognize two chief shop stewards, who will be Union members at   appointed by the Union to attend to the interest of the , and the Employer shall allow reasonable time for the performance of such duty.



	B.	The Company agrees that the  may appoint up to a maximum of three (3) assistant shop stewards.  The chief stop stewards or any assistant shop steward are authorized to deal with the Company’s Project Manager on Union business issues.



	C.	A chief steward or a designated assistant shall be allowed to perform these duties on-site during the stewards’ working hours without loss of compensation.  The performance of their Union duties shall be within a reasonable amount of time per shift.



	D.	The shop steward shall be on the job at all times during working hours as far as is practical.  The steward shall not hinder or delay the performance of his work or other employee’s work.



	E.	The steward must first obtain permission from his immediate supervisor before leaving his workstation to perform his steward duties.  Upon completion of such business, he shall immediately report back to his supervisor before returning to work.  Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.



	F.	The steward shall not solicit grievances.



ARTICLE XI – GRIEVANCE



	A.	The word “grievance” as used in this Agreement means a complaint filed by an employee and/or the  against the Company alleging failure of the Company to comply with any provisions of this Agreement not excluded from this Grievance Procedure.



	B.	A grievance, to be recognized, must be brought to the Company’s attention within five (5) working days of its occurrence.



	C.	If the Company fails to answer within the time limits set forth in the Agreement, the grievance shall automatically proceed to the next step.



	D.	Procedure.  Grievance shall be handled in the following sequence and manner:



		1.	At Step 1, the employee or employees and Assistant Shop Steward shall take the matter up with the Department Manager within five (5) working days of knowledge of infraction, and the grievance shall be presented in writing specifying, where possible, the Article and Paragraph of the Agreement claimed to have been violated.  If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved within said five (5) day period, the grievance may be processed at step 2.



		2.	At Step 2, the Shop Steward shall within five (5) working days take the matter up with the Project Manager.  If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved within five (5) working days after having taken the matter up with the Project Manager at Step 2, the grievance may be processed at Step 3.



		3.	At Step 3, the grievance shall within five (5) days be taken up with the Project Manager and/or his/her representative and the ’s Business Representative.  If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved within ten (10) working days, it shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with provisions hereinafter set forth.



	E.	Discipline and Discharge.  The Company reserves the right to discipline or discharge employees in accordance with Company policy and procedures.  Should the Union dispute the Company’s discharge decision as not being for just cause, then such dispute may be processed as a grievance starting at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.



	F.	Arbitration.  If within ten (10) working days from and after the day that the Company’s answer to Step 3 was given to the Union, the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved, the Company or the  shall have the right to appeal the grievance to arbitration.  Either party may extend the filing period by five (5) days by notifying the other party in writing.  The arbitrator shall be selected from a panel of seven (7) submitted to the parties from the American Arbitration Association.  Both parties agree that a request for arbitration must be submitted to the non-grieving party within the proper time frame from the receipt of the Company’s answer to Step 3 or the right to arbitrate that grievance is forfeited.



	G.	Cost of Arbitration.  All fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne by the losing party, except where one of the parties to the Agreement requests a postponement of a previously scheduled arbitration hearing which results in a postponement charge.  The postponing party shall pay such charge unless such postponement results in or from settlement of the grievance, in which case the postponement charge shall be borne equally by the parties.  A postponement charge resulting from a joint postponement request shall be borne equally by the parties.  Each party shall pay any and all expenses for their own representatives and witnesses.  



	H.	Arbitrator’s Authority.  The Arbitrator shall have the authority to determine the procedural rules of arbitration and shall have the authority to make such binding awards as are necessary to enable him to act effectively, subject to the following:



	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding upon the Company, the , and the aggrieved employee or employees.  The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or modifications thereto or any Agreements made supplementary hereto or to substitute his discretion in cases where the Company is given discretion by this Agreement or any modifications as provided herein.  Any backpay award shall be reduced by any sums received as unemployment compensation, from interim employment, and/or by such amount as the arbitrator deems reasonable if he/she finds that the employee failed to mitigate damages.



ARTICLE XII -- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS



	During the period of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, stoppages, boycotts, slowdowns, picketing, reduction in work standards, or other interferences with the operation of the Company and/or its customers (all of which are hereinafter referred to as “strikes”).



	A.	No officer or representative of the  shall authorize, instigate, aid or condone any strikes, and no employee shall participate in any strike.



	B.	The Company shall be under no obligation to bargain with the Union concerning employees who are on strike or concerning the subject of any strike so long as the strike continues.



	C.	The Company may, in its sole discretion, discipline or discharge any employees who engage in a strike, and such action shall not be subject to review upon any ground other than the employee did not take part in the strike.



	D.	Should any employee in the bargaining unit engage in any of the listed activities, the Company and the Union agree this shall be sufficient cause for immediate termination and without notice, forfeiture of all benefits, vacation, seniority, and any and all conditions and allowances that may be due him, excluding wages or other items covered by law.



	E.	In the event that any employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit engage in any activities herein prohibited, the Union agrees that, upon being notified by the Company, it will take immediate action and direct such employee or group of employees to cease such activity and resume such work immediately.  The resumption of work shall not preclude the Company from exercising its right to discipline or discharge said employee(s).  



	F.	There shall be no lockouts during the term of this Agreement.  A lockout as mentioned herein shall not include the closing down of the operation or any part thereof or curtailing any operations for business reasons.

	

ARTICLE XIII – VACATION



	The vacation schedules of the employees covered by this Agreement will be in accordance with the following:



	A.	Vacation accruals, based on employee’s anniversary date of employment, shall be as follows:



	Two (2) weeks after completion of one (1) year of employment.  Three (3) weeks after completion of five (5) years of employment.  Four (4) weeks after completion of fifteen (15) years of employment.  Five (5) weeks after completion of twenty (20) years of employment.



	B.	Should a holiday fall during the employee’s vacation period, an additional day of vacation shall be allowed.



	C.	No two employees of the same job classification in department will be allowed to take vacation at the same time.  Management has the right to approve or disapprove all requests for vacation, based on operational or manpower needs.



	D.	Vacations will be limited to two (2) periods, if an employee has more than two (2) weeks vacation due then he will take a second vacation within the twelve (12) month period.  An employee who is entitled to vacation leave may take (1) or more weeks in less than a full week’s increment provided seven (7) calendar days advance written notice is given and written approval is granted by the Company.



	E.	Seniority will be the basis for choice regarding a vacation period desired by more than one employee within a job classification.



	F.	The final vacation schedule rests with management and will be determined as to the needs of operations.  All vacations must be approved by management seven (7) days in advance of the start of the vacation.  Vacation leave, up to the maximum amount that an employee can earn in a single year, can be carried over from year to year.



	G.	Vacation benefits shall be credited on the employee’s anniversary date, and upon termination of employment, the employee shall receive all credited and unused vacation.



ARTICLE XIV – APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM



	It is the Company’s option to use the Apprenticeship Training Program.



	Should the Company wish to use said Program there shall be a three (3) year Apprenticeship Program.  All apprentices must be participants in the Local #30 Apprenticeship Training Program.  No apprentice may remain as an apprentice for more than 42 months.  At any time at the Employer’s discretion, an apprentice may be promoted to Engineer and a new apprentice referred from the Union Hall and hired at the new hire rate.  If an apprentice is not promoted by the 42nd month anniversary, the apprentice shall be returned to the Union Hall and a new apprentice referred from the Union Hall and hired at the new hire rate.



ARTICLE XV – SICK LEAVE BENEFIT AND VERIFICATION OF ILLNESS



	Regular full-time employees accrue sick leave at the rate of 1.54 hours per pay period or a maximum of 40 hours per year.  Employees may not carry over more than 40 hours of sick leave at calendar year end.  Employees will not be compensated for any unused sick leave at the time of the termination of their employment. 



	A.	All employees must notify the appropriate manager at least two (2) hours before the start of the workday if they are ill and unable to report to work.



	B.	Management reserves the right to verify illnesses and may require a doctor’s verification after three (3) days or when there is reasonable doubt regarding the absence.  Employer may also require an examination by his own doctor at Employer’s expense.



ARTICLE XVI – FRINGE BENEFITS



	A.	These benefits and contributions for the Welfare Trust Fund, Pension, Anjuity, Apprentice Training and Industry Stabilization Fund shall be:



 

B.	The Employer shall make contributions each pay period for the duration of this contract.  This shall apply to hours paid during the term of this collective bargaining agreement commencing on a full-time employee’s thirty (30th) day of employment.



C.	In the event that an employee is absent from work because of illness or injury, the Employer will pay the contributions as set forth above for each compensated hour of sick leave or vacation leave.	



The Trustees of the representative Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship and Annuity Funds and/or their representative shall have the right on five (5) days written notice to the Employer to examine the pertinent books and records of the Employer for the purpose of ascertaining if the Employer is paying the proper contributions to the Funds.



Effective , the Employer shall be under no obligation to provide any benefits or insurance coverage or contributions except those that are listed specifically in this Article.



	F.	The Union warrants and represents that the Employer’s liability with respect to providing contributions and benefits shall be no greater than as provided above, that the respective trust funds are jointly established trust funds administered, operated, and maintained in accordance with the law, and further that the trust funds have been and continue to be qualified by the Internal Revenue Service.  The  shall indemnify and hold harmless the Employer, including but not limited to the reimbursement of the Employer’s attorneys fees and costs, arising out of any and all claims made against it relating to the funds.



ARTICLE XVII – JURY DUTY



	For each day to a maximum of ten (10) working days that an employee is required to serve on the jury duty and presents court certification thereof, the Employer shall pay the difference between the amount such employee would normally have earned had he worked his straight time scheduled hours and his remuneration for such day for jury duty.  In case of written application by any employee required to serve on jury duty, the Employer shall pay such employee as though he had worked his regularly scheduled straight-time hours; provided, however, that such employee will remit to the Employer the amount of his jury pay he received for such jury duty upon returning to work.  Where practical, the employee will return to work immediately following release from jury duty to resume work for the remainder of the workday.  An employee must have a minimum of thirty (30) days’ service to be paid for jury duty.  The Company will be provided with documentation within seven (7) days of being served.



ARTICLE XVIII – DEATH IN FAMILY



	All full-time and part-time employees are eligible to apply for bereavement leave.  Eligible employees may, with management approval, be granted a personal leave of absence in the event of a death in their immediate family, which includes the employee’s spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, parents-in-law and grandparents.  The employee must submit a leave of absence request prior to commencement of the leave and must provide the name of the deceased along with the funeral arrangements.  FSSI recognizes that in emergency situations, prior approval cannot always be obtained.  The maximum period of leave will be three (3) consecutive days if required travel is within 400 miles of employee’s work location and five (5) consecutive days of distance is over 400 miles.  Employees shall not receive pay under this provision for scheduled days off.  Absences due to situations covered above will not be charged against the employee’s vacation unless the absences exceed the guidelines contained herein.  The employee must attend the funeral, which must take place within the aforementioned three (3) or five (5) day leave period.  An employee must have a minimum of thirty (30) days’ service to be paid under this Article.



ARTICLE XIX – VEHICLE USE



	If an employee is required to use his personal vehicle in the course of the workday, he shall be compensated at the mileage rate then in effect as established by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”).  Employees may not use their vehicles unless they first receive approval from their supervisors.



ARTICLE XX – SAFETY EQUIPMENT



	Safety equipment, as may be required by the Company’s contract with the USDHS, or by management in recognition of applicable national standards, will be paid for by the Company and, whenever possible, provided by Company selected pre-paid sources.  Such safety equipment will include, but need not be limited to, safety shoes, uniforms, and safety glasses.  Any such equipment will be replaced on an “as needed” basis as approved by management.



	Employees designated to wear safety equipment shall wear such equipment at all appropriate times while on duty.



ARTICLE XXI – PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES



	A.	Newly hired Employees shall be considered probationary for a period of 90 days from the date of employment, excluding time lost for sickness and other leaves of absence.



	B.	It is understood that at any time during the probationary period the Employer may discharge any probationary employee at will and such discharge shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.



ARTICLE XXII – SEVERABILITY



	In the event any provision of this Agreement be adjudged in conflict with any law, ordinance or regulation of the state of federal government or any department thereof, said provision shall be null and void but all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.



ARTICLE XXIII – SUBCONTRACTING



	The Company agrees that it will not subcontract regular Bargaining Unit work.  The Company retains the right to subcontract any work that cannot be performed due to absences or vacancies, or to perform special tasks or additional tasks as directed by the customer.  The Company retains the right to use temporary and part-time employees.



ARTICLE XXIV – JURISDICTION



	A.	The Company and the Union agree that the work performed by the employees shall include but not be limited to all work which is considered common task: (a) All operating engineering, (b) all electrical, (c) all carpentry, (d) all painting, (e) all plumbing/steamfitting, (f) all marine operation, (g) all safety operation, (h) all laborers and all other employees in categories not excluded by the certification.



	B.	Employee Status



		1.	Full-time – A full-time employee shall be an employee who is scheduled to work 40 hours per week.



		2.	Part-time – a part-time employee is an employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than 40 hours per week and shall receive contract benefits on a pro rata basis.



		3.	Temporary – a temporary employee shall be an employee hired for either a specific task or function that is not typically performed by the bargaining unit, or because of a temporary shortage of manpower.  The temporary employee shall be hired for a period of no longer than 60 consecutive days in a 12-month period.  Temporary employees shall not be entitled to any benefits under the contract.



ARTICLE XXV -- BARGAINING UNIT WORK



	Supervisors and other employees excluded from the bargaining unit may perform work normally performed by bargaining unit employees under the following conditions:



		1.	In the event of emergencies;



		2.	When necessary for training and/or instructing employees;



		3.	In circumstances which are required to ensure the quality of performance and/or the satisfaction of the Company’s obligation and responsibilities as a contractor to the federal government;



		4.	When technical expertise and/or skills are not available within the workforce to execute a particular task or series of tasks, and time/performance constraints do not permit the Employer to seek out such skills or expertise.



ARTICLE XXVI -- DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE



	The Company and the  are committed to ensuring that PIADC is a Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace.  The parties acknowledge that the Company can engage in drug and alcohol testing pursuant to the DOT/FMCSA, Non-DOT, and United States Coast Guard - Homeland Security policies, which are incorporated herein by reference.



ARTICLE XXVII– BARGAINING ON EXCLUDED MATTERS



	A.	The Parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining and that the understanding and agreement arrived at by the Parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.



	B.	Therefore, the Company and the Union each, for the life of this Agreement, agree that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement, unless mutually agreed to by both parties.

	

ARTICLE XXVIII -- DURATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT



Section 1



	This Agreement shall become effective the 1st day of , and shall continue in force until the 31st day of December 20, and thereafter from year to year, unless terminated or amended as hereinafter provided.







Section 2



	If either party to this Agreement should desire to renew, revise, or terminate this agreement, then not less than one hundred and fifty (150) days nor more than one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the 31st day of December 20, such party shall give written notice to the other, together with particulars relating thereto, by registered mail.  Such notice to the Company shall be sent to:



		with a copy to

ASRC Federal Holding Company		Pargament, PLLC

			Attn:  Jeffrey J. Pargament

, MD 

						



Notice to the  shall be sent to:



International  of Operating Engineers

Local 30, 30A and 30B







Section 3



	Within fifteen (15) days following receipt of the written notice to renew or revise this Agreement, together with the particulars relating thereto, the party receiving said notice and particulars shall be prepared to commence negotiations and it shall so advise the other party, together with their particulars relating thereto.  Unless otherwise mutually agreed, only those matters referred to in the particulars shall be discussed at such negotiations.



Section 4



	In the event that the parties have not reached a new or amended agreement in accordance with the above provisions by October 1, 20, the following procedure will go into effect:



		a.	The Company and the  will each designate a representative to an arbitration panel.  Within the next five (5) days, these representatives shall attempt to mutually agree upon a third party impartial arbitrator.  If such party is not mutually agreed upon, a request shall be made to the American Arbitration Association to so designate the third party impartial arbitrator.  The three (3) member panel shall then meet as soon as possible for the purpose of taking evidence and having the third party impartial arbitrator render an award on any remaining issues of differences between the Company and the  on a new or amended Agreement.



		b.	The parties shall be irrevocably bound by the report of the impartial arbitrator on such issues and shall immediately implement the report as terms and conditions of the new or amended agreement.  The report to be implemented shall be a majority report, and failing agreement of the panel, the report of the impartial arbitrator shall become the award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the parties be unable to reach agreement on the duration of the new agreement, the arbitrator may not establish the termination date of the follow-up collective bargaining agreement to be later than December 31, 201.



Section 5



	The Company will not lockout nor will the  or the employees stop work during the above proceedings because of the critical obligations to the USDHS.  During any period after , that a new or amended Agreement is not agreed upon, the full terms and conditions of the existing Agreement expiring December 31, 20, shall remain in full force and effect, until such time as the arbitration panel renders its award in accordance with (b) above.  The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no authority to award retroactively any increases in wages, benefits or other financial terms.  Additionally, any such increases must be communicated to both the Company and the  at least 40 days prior to the anniversary date of the Company’s contract with the USDHS.  For example, if the Company’s contract with the USDHS has an anniversary date of January 1, 20, for the wage increases decided by the arbitration panel to be implemented by January 1, 20, said increases must be communicated to and received by the Company and the  on or before November 21, 20.  Should the increase not be communicated timely, the increase will not be implemented until January 1, 20, assuming the Company remains on the contract with the USDHS.



Section 6



	The parties agree that Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, i.e., “interest arbitration” shall, at the Company’s discretion,  , for the successor agreement to th agreement that expires December 31, 2010.  The parties agree that the arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to impose interest arbitration if the Company to interest arbitration




Field Support Services, Inc.				International  of Operating Engineers, Local 30



____________________________________	__________________________________



____________________________________	__________________________________



____________________________________	__________________________________



____________________________________	__________________________________


MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT NO. 001



	This Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is voluntarily entered into by the parties indicated below and pertains to the IUOE membership on FSSI’s contract with the United States Department of Homeland Security (USDHS) at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC).  This MOA stands separate and apart from the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between the parties at the PIADC.  The term of this MOA is from  1, 200 through December 31, 20.



	“Employees are authorized to donate any portion of their currently credited, but unused vacation time to a fellow employee at the PIADC.  The recipient employee must have a documented emergency need for the time and the donation must be fully documented on a Company-provided form.  Written approval by the Project Manager is required and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, although requests for other than emergency purposes will be denied.”



	FSSI						International  of Operating Engineers, Local 30



__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





Date: _____________________________		Date: ______________________________




MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT NO. 002



This Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is voluntarily entered into by the parties indicated below and pertains to the IUOE membership on FSSI’s contract with the United States Department of Homeland Security (USDHS) at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC).  This MOA stands separate and apart from the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between the parties at the PIADC.  The term of this MOA is from  1, 200 through December 31, 20.



	Employees who receive work-related telephone calls from FSSI management personnel, as designated by FSSI’s project manager, outside of his/her assigned work hours for the purpose of requesting counsel or telephone assistance, will be paid for a minimum of one quarter (1/4) hour at the applicable overtime rate and in quarter of an hour increments for calls in excess of fifteen minutes.





FSSI							International  of Operating Engineers, Local 30



__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





Date: _____________________________		Date: _____________________________________________________






MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT NO. 003



This Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is voluntarily entered into by the parties indicated below and pertains to the seniority and benefits rights of employees who participated in the work stoppage that commenced while they were in the employ of FSSI’s predecessor at the PIADC site.  For purposes of “seniority,” employees who did not perform actual services for one year, due to their participation in the work stoppage and/or because they were permanently replaced, will be deemed to 1) have lost their seniority; 2) be new employees, and 3) subject to Article XXI of the Agreement.



	Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating vacation benefits only, the aforementioned employees will be given credit for their prior active service on the PIADC site.  By way of example, if an employee started work at the PIADC site for FSSI’s predecessors on January 1, 1995 and experienced a break in service, due to a work stoppage between January 1, 2002 and June 30, 2003, said employee will be deemed a new, probationary employee as of July 1, 2003.  However, for determining vacation pay eligibility as of July 1, 2004, the employees would be deemed to have eight (8) years of service.





FSSI							International  of Operating Engineers, Local 30



__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





__________________________________		___________________________________





Date: _____________________________		Date: _____________________________________________________






SCHEDULE A






SCHEDULE B



PAID HOLIDAYS



New Year's Day

Martin Luther King's Birthday

President's Day

Memorial Day

Fourth of July

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veterans' Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day







DATE

HEALTH AND WELFARE

PENSION

ANNUITY

APPRENTICESHIP

INDUSTRY

STABILIZATION

FUND

1/1/08

$6.50 per hour

$1.02 per hour

$1.02 per hour

$.01 per hour

$.01 per hour



1/1/09

$7.35 per hour

$1.05 per hour

$1.05 per hour

$.01 per hour

$.01 per hour



1/1/10

$8.20 per hour

$1.15 per hour

$1.15 per hour

$.01 per hour

$.01 per hour





TITLE





1/1/08



1/1/09



1/1/10

Able Bodied Seaman



$20.06

$20.46

$20.87

Able Bodied Seaman/Mechanic



$21.18

$21.60

$22.03

Bio-systems Mechanic



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81

Boiler Operator



$26.93

$27.47

$28.02

Carpenter/Painter (inside lab)



$27.05

$27.59

$28.14

Carpenter/Mason/Painter



$29.30

$29.89

$30.49

Cook



$20.32

$20.72

$21.14

Cook I



$18.83

$19.21

$19.59

Custodian



$15.73

$16.04

$16.36

Custodian/Lab Support



$17.28

$17.62

$17.98

Decontamination Plant Operator



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81

Electrician



$31.17

$31.79

$32.43

Electronic Technician



$28.00

$28.56

$29.13

Food Service Worker



$15.24

$15.54

$15.85

General Maintenance Worker



$22.53

$22.98

$23.44

Glassware Worker



$15.69

$16.00

$16.32

Grounds Maintenance Laborer



$16.94

$17.28

$17.63

HAZMAT Technician



$27.86

$28.41

$28.98

Heavy Equipment Operator



$28.98

$29.56

$30.15

HVAC Mechanic



$28.00

$28.56

$29.13

Laundry Worker



$15.73

$16.04

$16.36

Lead Boiler Operator



$28.04

$28.60

$29.17

Lead Decontamination Plant Operator



$28.00

$28.56

$29.13

Lead Electrician



$32.29

$32.94

$33.60

Lead Motor Vehicle Mechanic



$28.40

$28.96

$29.54

Lead Water/Wastewater Plant Operator



$31.17

$31.79

$32.43

Maintenance Helper



$22.85

$23.30

$23.77

Maintenance Mechanic



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81

Marine Mechanic



$27.29

$27.83

$28.39

Metal Worker



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81

Millwright



$31.17

$31.79

$32.43

Motor Vehicle Mechanic



$27.29

$27.83

$28.39

MP2 Tech



$29.05

$29.63

$30.22

Ordinary Seaman



$16.72

$17.05

$17.39

Pipefitter / Plumber



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81











Trades Helper



$22.85

$23.30

$23.77

Truck Driver



$24.07

$24.55

$25.04

Shipping and Receiving Clerk



$17.41

$17.76

$18.11

WW/PW Plant Operator



$25.77

$26.28

$26.81

WW/PW Assistant Operator



$27.31

$27.85

$28.41
|DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                                                    |1. CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING                                           |
|CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION                                           |a. FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED:              |SECRET                    |
|(The requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual apply to  |b. LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED:           |                          |
|all security aspects of this effort)                                                     |                                             |NONE                      |
|2. THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR: (X and complete as applicable)                    |3. THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)                         |
|    |a. PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER                                                  |      |a. ORIGINAL (Complete date in all cases)               |Date (YYMMDD)     |
|    |                                                                          |X     |                                                       |                  |
|    |b. SUBCONTRACT NUMBER                                                     |      |b. REVISED (Supersedes all previous     |Revision No.  |Date (YYMMDD)     |
|    |                                                                          |      |specs)                                  |              |                  |
|    |                                              |                           |      |                                                       |                  |
|    |c. SOLICITATION OR OTHER NUMBER               |DUE DATE (YYMMDD)          |      |c. FINAL (Complete item 5 in all cases)                |Date (YYMMDD)     |
|X   |HSHQPD-10-R-00001 Draft RFP                   |                           |      |                                                       |                  |
|4. IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?    _X_  YES   _  NO, If yes, complete the following                                                                             |
|Classified material received or generated under   Preceding Contract Number) _________________ is transferred to this follow-on contract                         |
|5. IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?             YES     NO, If yes, complete the following:                                                                          |
|In response to the contractors request dated        ,retention of the identified classified material is authorized for a period of:                              |
|6. CONTRACTOR  (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)                |                      |                                                     |
|a. NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP                                              |b. CAGE CODE         |c. COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and Zip Code)          |
|                                                                       |                     |                                                                    |
|7. SUBCONTRACTOR                                                       |                     |                                                                    |
|a. NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP                                              |b. CAGE CODE         |c. COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and Zip Code)          |
|                                                                       |                     |                                                                    |
|8. ACTUAL PERFORMANCE                                                  |                     |                                                                    |
|a. LOCATION                                                            |b. CAGE CODE         |c. COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and Zip Code)          |
|Department of Homeland Security (DHS)                                  |                     |                                                                    |
|Science & Technology (S&T) Plum Island Animal Disease Control (PIADC), |                     |                                                                    |
|Orient, NY                                                             |                     |                                                                    |
|                                                                       |                     |                                                                    |
|9. GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT                                                                                                                    |
|PROVIDE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE SUPPORT SERVICES FOR DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS), S&T PIADC.                                                        |
|10. THIS CONTRACT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS TO:        |YES   |No    |11. IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:                              |YEX   |NO     |
|a. COMMUNICATIONS  SECURITY (COMSEC) INFORMATION |      |X     |a. HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTORS FACILITY OR   |X     |       |
|                                                 |      |      |GOVERNMENT  ACTIVITY                                                               |      |       |
|b.  RESTRICTED DATA                              |      |X     |b. RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY (not applicable)                              |      |X      |
|c. CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION    |      |X     |c. RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL                                        |      | X     |
|d. FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA                      |      |X     |d. FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE                                 |      | X     |
|e. INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION                      |      |      |e. PERFORM SERVICES ONLY                                                           |      | X     |
|   (1) Sensitive Compartmented Information  (SCI)|      |X     |f. HAVE ACCESS TO US CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S.    |      | X     |
|                                                 |      |      |POSSESSIONS AND TRUST                                                              |      |       |
|                                                 |      |      |TERRITORIES                                                                        |      |       |
|   (2) Non-SCI                                   |      |X     |g. BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF THE DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER   |      | X     |
|                                                 |      |      |(DTIC) OR OTHER                                                                    |      |       |
|                                                 |      |      |SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER                                                      |      |       |
|f. SPECIAL ACCESS INFORMATION                    |      |X     |h. REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT                                                        |      | X     |
|g. NATO INFORMATION                              |      |X     |i. HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS                                                       |      |X      |
|h. FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION                |      |X     |j. HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS                                   |      |X      |
|i. LIMITED DISSEMINATION INFORMATION             |      |X     |k. BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE                                |      | X     |
|j. FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY INFORMATION             |X     |      |l. OTHER (specify)    See item 13.                                                 |      |X      |
|k. OTHER (Specify)                               |      |X     |                                                                                   |      |       |
|WINNTEL                                          |      |      |                                                                                   |      |       |


 DD Form 254-E, JAN 95                     Previous editions are obsolete
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|12. PUBLIC RELEASE. Any information (classified or unclassified) pertaining to this contract shall not be released for public dissemination except as provided by|
|the Industrial Security Manual or unless it has been approved for public release by appropriate U.S. Government authority.  Proposed public releases shall be    |
|submitted for approval prior to release                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|DIRECT    XX THROUGH (Specify) NONE AUTHORIZED                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|UNLESS CONTRACTOR HAS OBTAINED AUTHORITY TO RELEASE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY: CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH THE COTR AND THE OFFICE OF        |
|SECURITY (ASD) ON ALL CHANGES TO THIS GUIDANCE.                                                                                                                  |
|to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs)* for review.                    |
|*In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.                                                                |
|13. SECURITY GUIDANCE. The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying |
|this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide          |
|recommended changes; to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to  |
|submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and|
|protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate  |
|correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|Reference Item 10 j:  “The Contractor is responsible for handling and marking FOUO information in accordance with DHS Directive (MD 11042.1) “Safeguarding       |
|Sensitive but Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information”, dated January 6, 2005; Furthermore contractors must sign a special Non-Disclosure Agreement     |
|before receiving access to unclassified FOUO information.  Contractors with questions on handling DHS FOUO shall contact DHS OS ASD at                           |
|(202) 447-5341.”                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|Reference Item 11 a:  Contract performance is restricted to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science & Technology (S&T) Plum Island Animal Disease Control  |
|Center (PIADC) Orient, NY.  Cleared personnel are required to perform this service.  All contractor personnel must:  Be U.S. Citizens, have been granted a final |
|security clearance by the U.S. Government (Interim Security Clearances are accepted by DHS), have been approved as meeting criteria by DHS CSO, and have been    |
|indoctrinated by a Non Disclosure Agreement, Standard Form 312 for this specific program prior to being given any access to such information released or         |
|generated under this contract.  Immigrant aliens, personnel cleared on an interim basis, or personnel holding contractor granted CONFIDENTIAL clearances, are not|
|eligible for access to classified information release or generated under this contract.  Classified material released or generated under this contract is not    |
|releasable to foreign nationals without the expressed written permission of the CSO.  Recipients of classified information under this contract may not be        |
|released to subcontractors without permission of the DHS CSO.  The contractor and COTR will revalidate all billets under this contract with the CSO annually or  |
|when a revised DD Form 254 is issued, whichever is sooner.                                                                                                       |
|14. ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS. Requirements, in addition to NISPOM requirements, are established for this contract.                                   YES |
|NO                                                                                                                                                               |
|(If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies additional             |
|requirements.                                                                                                                                                    |
|Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office. Use Item 13 if additional space is required.)                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|See item 13 above and the enclosed SCI addendum.                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|15. INSPECTIONS. ELEMENTS OF THIS CONTRACT ARE OUTSIDE THE INSPECTION RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE. (If yes, explain and                YES   |
|NO                                                                                                                                                               |
|identify specific areas or elements carved out  and the activity responsible for inspections. Use Item 13 if more space is needed.)                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|.                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                 |
|16. CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.   Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or   |
|generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.                                                            |
|a. TYPED NAME OF CERTIFYING OFFICIAL                   |b. TITLE  Special/Industrial Security Officer           |                                                |
|                                                       |Chief, Industrial Security Program Branch               |                                                |
|                                                       |     Branch                                             |                                                |
|                                                                                    |17. REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION                                                    |
|Department of Homeland Security                                                     |X   a. CONTRACTOR                                                            |
|301, 7th & D SW                                                                     |b. SUBCONTRACTOR                                                             |
|Washington, DC  20528                                                               |X   c. COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE FOR PRIME & SUBCONTRACTOR                   |
|                                                                                    |d.  U.S. ACTIVITY RESPONSIBLE FOR OVERSEAS SECURITY ADMINISTRATION           |
|                                                                                    |X    e. ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTING OFFICER                                   |
|                                                                                    |X    f. OTHERS AS NECESSARY                                                  |


Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF) Plan

Introduction



DHS will use the incentive fee to address cost performance and overall project performance.  In accordance with the provisions of CPIF contract management a target fee will be established based on the target cost of the work (i.e. planned value of the project for the evaluation period).  A target fee will be established and based on a percentage of the total target cost.  Maximum and minimum fees will also be established as limits for how much the seller (contractor) can lose or gain in profit around the target fee.  



An initial baseline share ratio of 50/50 has been proposed for contractor performance that shares the degree of risk and reward equally between the government and seller.  In standard practice, the share ratio encourages the seller to minimize cost so that a higher profit is realized when costs are below the target cost.  Conversely, if the seller spends more than the target cost then the seller's profit will decrease.  Regardless of cost performance, the seller cannot exceed the maximum profit or earn less than the minimum profit.  The initial 50/50 share ratio is illustrated in the plot below:



DHS will use Earned Value Management (EVM) techniques to monitor contractor cost and schedule performance.  A modification to the share ratio will be used in order link the contractor's cost and schedule performance directly to the degree of risk or reward using a sliding incentive fee share ration scale.  The share ratio will be adjusted to be more favorable to the contractor when overall project performance is good and conversely when, overall project performance is poor, the share ratio will be adjusted  to be less favorable to the contractor.  This movable share ratio approach is sensitive to both cost and schedule performance.  Instead of just focusing on reducing cost to increase fee, the contractor will also be motivated to complete scheduled work in a timely manner.




Overall project performance will be evaluated based on the Cost Performance Index (CPI) (Earned Value/Actual Cost) and the Schedule Performance Index (SPI) (Earned Value/Planned Value).  A brief discussion of Earned Value is provided below. 



Background



The Earned Value Management (EVM) technique allows project performance to be monitored and controlled using three basic pieces of data:  



Planned Value (PV) - The planned budget for work based on estimates or historical information.  PVs can be assigned at various levels of the project (the most accurate approach is to determine planned values for each activity, but this is not always practical).  Each PV is locked in-place with the schedule (or timeframe) for performing that scope of work.  In this way, a monthly cost plan can be determined in advance by summing the PVs for that month.  The cumulative distribution of all PVs creates an S-Curve which is often referred to as the "baseline."  The sum of all PVs will equal the Budget at Completion (BAC) for the project.  It should be noted that the BAC does not include dollars related to seller's fee (profit) or contingency reserve.  PVs are used primarily to measure schedule performance (against what was actually "earned").



Earned Value (EV) - The value of work that was actually performed during a reporting period.  It is commonly calculated by multiplying the percent complete times the planned value for that portion of work being measured (or EV = %Complete x PV).  For example, if a work item has a PV of $10K and 90% of that work was completed, then only $9K was earned.  This becomes a critically important measure since it represents the amount of planned scope that was completed (regardless of when it was completed or how much was spent).  EV is always used in determining cost performance and schedule performance, though both of these are usually independent variables.  EV is the common thread that relates to "how much scope" was completed for the money spent or time elapsed.  Different techniques can be used to take EV credit including weighted milestones,  time series, EV credit rules, or judgmental methods.  The type of earned value methods to be applied would be established during planning.



Actual Cost (AC) - The money spent to perform the work that was completed. These are considered "sunk costs" and are typically retrieved after the fact through the organization's cost accounting system.  By subtracting AC from EV, the cost variance is determined.  Note, that this is different and more reliable than simply subtracting AC from PV (which should NOT be done when using EVM).


The approved project plan (baseline) will contain the "planned values" that are used to track and monitor contractor (seller) performance as part of implementing the Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF) contract.  The project data above (PV, EV and AC) is used to calculate two basic parameters of project health: 



Cost Performance Index (CPI) - A measure of cost efficiency expressed as a unit-less fraction or ratio of what was earned versus what was spent (CPI = EV / AC).  When actual costs are greater than the earned value then CPI is less than 1, which indicates that more money was spent to do the planned work.  A CPI = 0.95 means that for every dollar spent, only 95 cents of work was accomplished.  This trend will result in a cost "overrun" situation if not corrected.  Conversely, a CPI greater than 1 implies that more work is being accomplished for less money.  While this is considered favorable, it may also indicate that the baseline was not representing the planned work accurately.  Performance that is considered to be "On Budget" would have a CPI equal to 1.  For the purposes of monitoring and controlling contractor cost using a CPIF contract, a CPI of 1 represents baseline performance that will result the target fee being achieved.  However, cost performance is only one of two important project performance measures (schedule performance is the other).



Schedule Performance Index (SPI) - A measure of schedule efficiency expressed as a unit-less fraction or ratio of what was earned versus what was planned (SPI = EV / PV).  When earned value is less than what was planned then SPI is less than 1, which indicates that some fraction of work was not completed on-time.  An SPI = 0.95 means that only 95 percent of planned work was accomplished "on-time" (there would still be 5% of planned work remaining).  This means that work is not being completed when it was planned for completion (regardless of how much it cost or what was spent).  This measure is important for CPIF contract management because it can be used to highlight those areas of scope that were not completed when planned (even if cost performance was satisfactory).  



A reward system that uses both CPI and SPI would be the most effective at optimizing overall contractor performance by sharing risk between the buyer and seller in proportion to these two parameters.   Current (or traditional) CPIF models use a static share ratio that drives cost-saving behavior more than schedule completion behavior.  The share ratio would typically not change if cost targets were met but schedule targets failed to meet the plan.  The proposed model in this CPIF plan will describe how both CPI and SPI can be used to effectively reward performance indices above 1 and create disincentives for cost and schedule performance that is less than 1 by using a sliding share ratio.



CPIF Methodology



The Contractor's Performance Management Reviews (PMR) will contain CPI and SPI information for the performance period (typically measured monthly).   A modified share ratio table is shown below.  Incremental values for CPI and SPI are placed on the vertical and horizontal axis, respectively.  The area between the two axis represent the seller's share, which increases or decreases with corresponding change in cost and schedule performance.  The blue diagonal line represents expected (target) performance, meaning that a CPI and SPI equal to 1 will yield a seller's share that is the same as the baseline 50/50 model.  As the cost and schedule performance indices decrease (below 1), which indicates poor performance, then the share ratio shifts so that the contractor will have a greater share amount deducted from their target fee.  




The area of "poor" performance is to the left of the diagonal whereas "good" performance is to the right of the diagonal.  The scales and limits used for the seller's share, CPI and SPI are preliminary and provided as an example so that various scenarios can be presented and discussed.  The final parameters for this modified approach will be negotiated with the contractor.  A table showing how the seller's share is adjusted based on CPI and SPI is provided below:







Since this integrated approach for adjusting the seller's share relies heavily on EVM technique, specific acceptance criteria for work breakdown structure tasks will need to be identified as part of EVMS certification.   An Independent Baseline Review (IBR) will be conducted to ensure that earned value parameters have been established to the degree necessary for effective contract management.  Once an approved plan is in place, the intent of the CPIF methodology will be to balance the contractor's focus on cost savings with a consideration of their schedule effectiveness.  This approach will discourage the contractor from reducing spending solely to make a higher profit because the completion of key deliverables will also be factored into their profit calculation.  






90-DAY TRANSISTION PERIOD   01/01/2011 - 03/31/2011 
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
BASE PERIOD  - 03/01/2011 - 12/31/2011
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
OPTION YEAR I    01/01/2012 - 12/31/2012
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
OPTION YEAR 2       01/01/2013 - 12/31/2013
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
OPTION YEAR 3     01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
OPTION YEAR 4    01/01/2015 - 12/31/2015
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
SUMMARY  (AGGREGATE )
Labor Category Estimated Hours Direct Labor Rate Extended Amount
01 Reg
02 Reg
03 Reg
04 Reg
05 Reg
06 Reg
07 Reg
08 Reg
09 Reg
10 Reg
TOTAL ESTIMATED DIRECT LABOR
Rate
OVERHEAD (Burden) ________%
SUBTOTAL
OTHER DIRECT COSTS:Not-to-Exceed (NTE)
   Material
   Subcontractors
   Other Contractor Direct Costs
        a.
        b.
        c.
TOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS:
SUBTOTAL
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ________%
SUBTOTAL (Cost excluding FCCOM & Fee)
FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
     Applied to _________________ ________%
TOTAL FACILITIES CAPITAL COSTOF MONEY
Amount Rate
FIXED FEE $_________ ________%
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST PLUS FIXED FEE 
SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

RATING

PAGE OF PAGES

1
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED

6

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

HSHQPD-10-R-00001
7. ISSUED BY

SEALED BID (IFB) X NEGOTIATED (RFP)

02/18/2010

DHS/OPO/S&T/PIADC U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security Office of Procurement Operations S&T PIADC 40550 Rt. 25 Orient Point NY 11957
CODE

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

R Pastorella,S&T/OPO,Rm 6-010A,MS: 0210 Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, SW, Building 410 Washington, DC 20528-0210

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and depository located in

1

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the until

1600 ES
(Hour)

local time

03/05/2010
(Date)

CAUTION: LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.
10. FOR INFORMATION CALL:

A. NAME AREA CODE

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) NUMBER EXT.

C. E-MAIL ADDRESS

Rebecca Pastorella
DESCRIPTION

202
PAGE(S) (X)

254-2272
SEC. DESCRIPTION

rebecca.pastorella@hq.dhs.go v
PAGE(S)

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
(X) SEC.

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

01 02-08 09-13 14 15 16-17 18-20 21-27

X X

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

28-42 43 44-48 49-66 67-74

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X X X

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

L M

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within ______________ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232.8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR CODE FACILITY 16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print) AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) CALENDAR DAYS (%)

15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20. AMOUNT

21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) ) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c) ( CODE )

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

Courtney Byrd
(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable
STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSHQPD-10-R-00001

2

6

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

AMOUNT

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

-----DRAFT RFP----THIS IS A DRAFT RFP FOR THE OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES AT PLUM ISLAND ANIMAL DISEASE CONTROL (PIADC), ORIENT POINT, NY. THE GOVERNMENT IS REQUESTING FOR INDUSTRY COMMENTS, RECOMMENDATIONS, AND/OR QUESTIONS ON THE STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW) OR ANY OTHER FACETS OF THIS DRAFT RFP TO BE SUBMITTED NO LATER THAN 05 MAR 2010. Delivery Location Code: PIADC U.S. Dept of Homeland Security S&T PIADC 40550 Rt. 25 Orient Point NY 11957 FOB: Destination Period of Performance: 01/01/2011 to 12/31/2011 0001 BASE PERIOD OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC (INFORMATIONAL LINE ITEM) in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C Product/Service Code: M142

0001AA

90-DAY TRANSITION PERIOD OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF In accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________.

Product/Service Code:

M142

Period of Performance: 01/01/2011 to 03/31/2011 Continued ...

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSHQPD-10-R-00001

3

6

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

AMOUNT

(A) 0001AB

(B) OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF In accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________. Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 04/01/2011 to 12/31/2011

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

0001AC

VEHICLE SUPPORT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC FFP in accordance with the Statement of Work, paragraph 4.26, contained in Section C Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 04/01/2011 to 12/31/2011

1001

OPTION YEAR 1 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC (INFORMATIONAL LINE ITEM) in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2012 to 12/31/2012

1001AA

OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________.

(Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2012 to 12/31/2012 Continued ...

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSHQPD-10-R-00001

4

6

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

AMOUNT

(A) 1001AB

(B) VEHICLE SUPPORT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC FFP in accordance with the Statement of Work, paragraph 4.26, contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2012 to 12/31/2012

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

2001

OPTION YEAR 2 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC (INFORMATIONAL LINE ITEM) in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2013 to 12/31/2013

2001AA

OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________. (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2013 to 12/31/2013

2001AB

VEHICLE SUPPORT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC FFP in accordance with the Statement of Work, paragraph 4.26, contained in Section C

(Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2013 to 12/31/2013 Continued ...

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSHQPD-10-R-00001

5

6

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

AMOUNT

(A) 3001

(B) OPTION YEAR 3 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC (INFORMATIONAL LINE ITEM) in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code:

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

M142

Period of Performance: 01/01/2014 to 12/31/2014 3001AA OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________.

(Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2014 to 12/31/2014 3001AB VEHICLE SUPPORT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC FFP in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2014 to 12/31/2014 4001 OPTION YEAR 4 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC (INFORMATIONAL LINE ITEM) in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2015 to 12/31/2015 Continued ...

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSHQPD-10-R-00001

6

6

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

AMOUNT

(A) 4001AA

(B) OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC CPIF in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C The estimated cost of this line item is _________, the total incentive fee available is $__________,and the total estimated cost and maximum incentive fee available is $_________. (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2015 to 12/31/2015

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

4001AB

VEHICLE SUPPORT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE SERVICES OF PIADC FFP in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in Section C (Option Line Item) Product/Service Code: M142 Period of Performance: 01/01/2015 to 12/31/2015

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

SECTION B Supplies or Services and Prices 



B.1	NOTICE TO OFFERORS:



QUESTIONS:  All questions regarding this solicitation should be submitted, in writing, to the Contract Specialist,  Ms. Becky Pastorella, at fax:  202-254-6911, or email: .



PROPOSAL COSTS INCURRED:  This Draft Request for Proposal does not commit the Government to pay for any costs incurred in the submission of any proposal or in making necessary studies or designs for the preparation thereof or to acquire or contract for any services.



EXCEPTIONS: Any exceptions or deviations to the Government Statement of Work or this DRAFT RFP must be clearly identified and submitted as a comment, recommendation, or question.  If deviations are submitted in comments or recommendations, please provide an explanation of how the proposed service meets the functional requirement.  



SUBMITTALS:  Please insure that your Offer/Proposal includes all items identified in the paragraph entitled “Proposal Submission Requirements”.



EVALUATIONS: Proposals will be evaluated in accordance with paragraph entitled “”Best Value Evaluation”.  



MATERIAL: Estimated Material costs are for “only” those costs incidental to, and inherent in, the contractor’s direct performance of services.



Any materials/parts/ supplies acquired for and charged to this contract, either as an indirect or direct charge, will become the property of the Government.  Any design / specification / fabrication data developed on this contract supported by Government funds (direct / indirect charges) shall become the exclusive property of the Government.



INVOICING:  Each contractor invoice file, or invoice back-up data, shall include expended costs that cannot be billed and the explanation or reason for non-billing.    Back-up information shall be provided for end of year rate adjustment billings and shall include the type of adjustment, the period covered, and the total dollar amount, identified by contractor.   Final year close out shall be completed as soon as possible after each option year expiration.



OTHER DIRECT COSTS (ODC):	Any ODC’s not identified by the Government which will be required for contractor performance must be identified by Offeror and listed under the designated areas above.



ANTICIPATED MILESTONE SCHEDULE:  It is anticipated that the following Milestone Schedule will apply to this procurement:





The following paragraph is applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS: 



B.2	LEVEL OF EFFORT (COST REIMBURSABLE)



1.  It is estimated that the labor mix as described elsewhere in the Schedule will be required to perform the services described in Section C.



	a.	The level of effort as described elsewhere in the Schedule does not include general administrative functions normally included in overhead costs.  Examples of such functions include, but are not limited to, activities related to the estimation and negotiation of delivery orders, courier services, and personnel management activities.  Any offeror whose approved accounting system provides for the charging of administrative functions as direct costs shall identify them as required in Section L.  Any "other direct costs" which are not specifically identified in the proposal may not be reimbursed under the contract.



b.	The manhours of direct labor exclude sick pay, vacations, holidays and hours expended in indirect labor, but include subcontract hours and allowable overtime under the provisions of FAR 52.222-2.  However, overtime will not be reimbursed unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer or designee.  Overtime is defined as hours worked in excess of the employee's normal workweek.  The normal workweek is defined as forty (40) hours.



	c.	Unless the offeror states otherwise in his proposal, the Contractor shall observe the same holidays as the Government and shall be open for business at all other times.  These holidays are:



	New Year's Day			Labor Day

	Martin Luther King Day		Columbus Day

	President’s Day			Veterans’ Day

	Memorial Day			Thanksgiving Day

	Independence Day			Christmas Day



	d.	If, at any time during the performance of this contract, the cumulative number of expended labor hours and/or costs exceeds 85% of the total estimated hours and/or cost of the contract, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer in writing.



	e.	Any adjustment to the contract's cost shall be made by contract modification.  






SECTION C Descriptions and Specifications 

 



C.1.	STATEMENT OF WORK	SEE ATTACHMENT 1

	

The following clauses are applicable to all CLINS:

C.2.	3052.204-71   CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE ACCESS (JUN 2006)

(a) Sensitive Information, as used in this Chapter, means any information, the loss, misuse, disclosure, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could adversely affect the national or homeland security interest, or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense, homeland security or foreign policy. This definition includes the following categories of information:

(1) Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (Title II, Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto (Title 6, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 29) as amended, the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the PCII Program Manager or his/her designee);

(2) Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as defined in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1520, as amended, “Policies and Procedures of Safeguarding and Control of S SI,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or his/her designee);

(3) Information designated as “For Official Use Only,” which is unclassified information of a sensitive nature and the unauthorized disclosure of which could adversely impact a person’s privacy or welfare, the conduct of Federal programs, or other programs or operations essential to the national or homeland security interest; and

(4) Any information that is designated “sensitive” or subject to other controls, safeguards or protections in accordance with subsequently adopted homeland security information handling procedures.

(b) “Information Technology Resources” include, but are not limited to, computer equipment, networking equipment, telecommunications equipment, cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites, and internet sites.

(c) Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. All contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to sensitive information or IT resources are required to have a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this contract unless this requirement is waived under Departmental procedures.




(d) The Contracting Officer may require the contractor to prohibit individuals from working on the contract if the government deems their initial or continued employment contrary to the public interest for any reason, including, but not limited to, carelessness, insubordination, incompetence, or security concerns.

(e) Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information. Therefore, the Contractor shall not disclose, orally or in writing, any sensitive information to any person unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. For those contractor employees authorized access to sensitive information, the contractor shall ensure that these persons receive training concerning the protection and disclosure of sensitive information both during and after contract performance.

(f) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources.

C.3.	3052.228-70    INSURANCE (DEC 2003)

In accordance with the FAR clause 52.228-7 Insurance - Liability to Third Persons, in Section I, insurance of the following kinds and minimum amounts shall be provided and maintained during the period of performance of this contract:

(a) Worker's compensation and employer's liability. The contractor shall, as a minimum, meet the requirements specified at (FAR) 48 CFR (a).

(b) General liability. The contractor shall, as a minimum, meet the requirements specified at (FAR) 48 CFR (b).

(c) Automobile liability. The contractor shall, as a minimum, meet the requirements specified at (FAR) 48 CFR (c). \

C.4.	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL



a.	Compliance with Security Regulations.



	(1)   The Contractor shall comply with the security regulations in force at all Government Sites.  Company-granted clearances are not valid for access to restricted areas or information.  If access to these areas or information is involved, contractor personnel must possess a Government-granted clearance based on formal investigative actions.  Contractor personnel may be required to fill out a form regarding involvement with alcohol or dangerous drugs, police records, relatives living abroad, and personal foreign travel as a condition for receiving a clearance.



	(2)   If applicable, special security provisions for access to classified information are set forth in the attached DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specifications.



	(3)   For unclassified visits, the visit request shall include the following information on each person visiting the Government Site.  The request shall be on company letterhead stationery with company address/telephone number and provide the following information:



	Name_________________________________________________________________

	Job Title/Position________________________________________________________

	Government Security Clearance, if any ______________________________________

	SSN__________________________________________________________________

	Date/Place of Birth______________________________________________________

	Citizenship____________________________________________________________

	Current Residence Address________________________________________________

	Length of Visit (if known)________________________________________________



(4)  It is the Contractor's responsibility to collect and account for all personnel identification passes/badges and vehicle passes issued to his employees when no longer needed.  The Contractor must return all passes/badges to the facility security office within three (3) days of the separation of an individual from employment on this contract.



	(5)   It is the Contractor's responsibility to assure that his employees are aware of, and comply with, the security requirements of the facility or ship as set forth in the contract and as explained at the pre-award or post-award conference, if applicable. Noncompliance by an individual can result in denial of access to the facility or ship.



	(6)   The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) appointed in this contract, a listing of persons employed on the contract indicating that they have been briefed on the facility security requirements shall be submitted to the COR within 14 days after award of the contract.  The list is in addition to that shown in paragraphs a above.  The list shall also include a description of all company vehicles, including road equipment and office supply trailers, to be employed on the facility, along with license numbers, if applicable.  The Contractor shall promptly revise the list of any changes, and provide a copy of the updated list to the COTR.



 C.5.	REQUIRED STANDARD OF WORKMANSHIP



Unless otherwise specifically provided in this contract, the quality of all services rendered hereunder shall conform to the highest standards in the relevant profession, trade or field of endeavor.  All services shall be rendered by or supervised directly by individuals fully qualified in the relevant profession, trade or field, and holding any licenses required by law.



C.6.	WAGE DETERMINATION APPLICABLE, SERVICE CONTRACT ACT



1.  U.S. Department of Labor Wage Determinations, Attachment 3, set forth the minimum wages for Service Contract Act applicable labor categories.



2.  Offerors are advised that the following management/professional categories are exempt from the Service Contract Act and therefore, are not covered by the Wage Determination.

 : 

Project Manager

Business/Finance Manager

Project Engineers

O&M Supervisors

QC Managers

Managers

Marine Lead Master

IT Lead Sys Technicians

Contract Specialists

Sr. Procurement Specialists



3.  It is expected that the labor force for this contract will be performing primarily on  or its direct vicinity.  However, it is understood that there may be some work requirements in other work areas.



4.  In the event that any labor categories are not listed on an applicable Wage Determination, the conformance procedures stated in FAR Clause 52.222-41(c)(2) shall be followed by the contractor.



The following paragraphs are applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS:



C.7.	TECHNICAL DIRECTION

 

(a)   When necessary, technical direction or clarification concerning the details of specific tasks set forth in the contract shall be given through issuance of Technical Direction Letters (TDLs) by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR).



(b)   Each TDL shall be in writing and shall include, as a minimum, the following information:



	(1)	Date of TDL.

	(2)	Contract and TDL number.

	(3)	Reference to the relevant section or item in the statement of work.

	(4)	Signature of COTR.



(c)   Each TDL issued hereunder is subject to the terms and conditions of this contract; and in no event shall technical directions constitute an assignment of new work or changes of such nature as to justify any adjustment to the fixed fee, estimated costs, or delivery terms under the contract.  In the event of a conflict between a TDL and this contract, the contract shall control.



(d)   When in the opinion of the Contractor a technical direction calls for effort outside the contract statement of work, the Contractor shall notify the COTR and Contracting Officer thereof in writing within two working days of having received the technical direction in question.  The Contractor shall undertake no performance to comply with the technical direction until the Contracting Officer has resolved the matter through formal contract modification or other appropriate action.



(e)   Oral technical directions may be given by the COTR only in emergency circumstances, and provided that any oral technical direction given is reduced to writing by the COTR within two working days of its issuance.



(f)   Amendments to a TDL shall be in writing and shall include the information set forth in paragraph (b) above.  A TDL may be amended orally only by the COTR in emergencies; oral amendments shall be confirmed in writing within two working days from the time of the oral communication amending the TDL by a TDL modification.



(g)   Any effort undertaken by the Contractor pursuant to oral or written technical directions issued other than in accordance with the provisions herein shall be at the Contractor's risk of not recovering related costs incurred and corresponding proportionate amount of fixed fee, if any.



C.8.	REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRANSPORTATION AND TRAVEL COSTS



1.	Personnel Transportation/Travel Costs



	a.	(i) As set forth in FAR Part 31, local transportation of an employee both from their place of residence to their place of work and the return trip (i.e. work commute) is an unallowable cost under the contract regardless of whether the cost is reported as taxable income to the employees.



(ii) In accordance with FAR Part 31, local travel incurred during performance of contract 

services/tasks by contractor personnel residing in the metropolitan area may be billed as a direct cost.  Local travel includes services performed at any location within a fifty (50) mile radius of the Contractor’s home facility or any facility required by this contract.



(iii) All local travel proposed must be billed as an additional Other Direct Cost (ODC) outside the 

Level of Effort (LOE) estimated for travel in Section B.  If the Contractor does not estimate local travel and include it in its proposal, the Government will not consider local travel an allowable expense during the performance of the contract. 



	b.	For travel costs/personnel transportation other than described in paragraph 1.a above, the Contractor shall be reimbursed on the basis of actual amounts paid to the extent that such transportation is necessary for the performance of services under the contract.  Amounts shall not exceed guidelines established in the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR), Volume II.  



	c.	When transportation by privately owned conveyance is authorized, the Contractor shall be paid on a mileage basis.  This mileage rate shall not exceed the applicable Government transportation rate as contained in the Department of State regulation.



	d.	The Contractor agrees, in the performance of necessary travel, to use the lowest cost mode commensurate with the requirements of the mission and in accordance with good traffic management principles.  When it is necessary to use rail travel, the Contractor agrees to use coach, tourist class or similar accommodations to the extent consistent with the successful and economical accomplishment of the mission for which the travel is being performed.  Airfare costs in excess of the lowest customary standard, coach, or equivalent airfare offered during normal business hours will only be allowable if they meet the terms and conditions set forth in FAR 31.205-46.



	e.	The Contractor's invoices shall include evidence, such as receipts, substantiating actual costs incurred for authorized travel.



	f.	Personnel time spent in travel status (other than paragraph 1.a. above) from and to the Contractor's plant and designated work site may be considered as time of performance under the contract, and the Contractor may bill to direct labor hours at the straight (regular) time rate.  However, such billing shall not exceed eight (8) man-hours per day for any one (1) person while in travel status during one (1) calendar day.



	g.	The Contractor is responsible for making all travel arrangements to support his personnel during the conduct of tasks assigned under this contract.  All air travel shall be Commercial Airline Coach Class, unless deviations are authorized elsewhere in the contract or are authorized in advance by the Contracting Officer.  The Contractor shall make no direct labor charges for making travel arrangements.



	h.	The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining an up-to-date passport for all personnel who will be required to travel outside the  to accomplish work assigned under this contract.  The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining any visas required for travel to foreign countries to accomplish work assigned under this contract.  The Contractor shall make no direct labor charges for obtaining/maintaining passports and/or visas.



2.	Auto Rental.  Auto rental costs directly attributable to specific contract performance are allowable and will be reimbursed as direct costs, so long as the most economical class of rental cars consistent with the needs of the contract are utilized.  These costs must be justified as reasonable in accordance with FAR 31.205-46.  Contractors are cautioned to consider reasonableness.



3.	Per Diem



	a.	The Contractor shall not be paid for per diem for contractor personnel who reside in the metropolitan area in which the tasks are being performed.  Per diem shall not be paid on services performed at Contractor's home facility and at any facility required by the contract, or at any location within a fifty (50) mile radius of the Contractor's home facility and any Government facility required by this contract.



	b.	Expenses for subsistence and lodging shall be paid to the Contractor only to the extent that overnight stay is necessary for the performance of the services ordered under this contract.   The authorized per diem rate shall be the same as the prevailing per diem locality and will be based on rates contained in the Department of State Regulation.  Fractional parts of a day shall be payable on a prorated basis for purposes of billing for subsistence charges.  Reimbursement to the Contractor for per diem shall be limited to actual payments to employees for authorized per diem not to exceed the authorized per diem defined herein.  The Contractor shall retain supporting documentation for per diem expenses as evidence of actual payment, as required by the "Payments" clause of the contract.




SECTION D Packaging and Marking 

 

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 



The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:



D.1.	MARKING OF SHIPMENTS (COMMERCIALLY PACKAGED ITEMS)



(i)   Marking shall be in accordance with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)-D-3951 (most current edition) and with the information set forth in paragraph (ii) below.  Unless specified elsewhere in this contract/order, bar coding is not required.



(ii)  All unit and exterior containers/packs shall, as a minimum, be marked as follows:



1.  National stock number (NSN), when available, or

     Federal stock number (FSN), when NSN is not available, or
     part number when neither NSN or FSN are available.

	2.  Noun nomenclature cited on contract or order.

	3.  Quantity and unit of issue.

	4.  Contract, or order number.

	5.  From:_______________________________________________

			(Contractor's Name)

 _______________________________________________

				(Address)

	6.  To: (See delivery address on page 1 or in Section F)



(iii) Markings may be applied by any means which provide legibility.



(iv)  Additional markings required are stated below.

		NONE



D.2.	PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY (COMMERCIALLY PACKAGED ITEMS)



(a)   Preservation, packaging, and packing shall be in accordance with ASTM-D-3951 (most current edition), "Standard for Commercial Packing."  The unit pack quantity that applies to items under this contract is "Industry Standard".



(b)   Prohibited Packing Materials.  The use of asbestos, excelsior, loose fill polystyrene, newspaper or shredded paper (all types including waxed paper, computer paper and similar hydroscopic or non-neutral material) is prohibited.



(c)   Non-Manufactured Wood Packing.  All non-manufactured wood utilized in wood pallets and wood containers shall be heat treated to a minimum core temperature of 56 degrees centigrade for 30 minutes and certified by an accredited agency recognized by the American Lumber Standards Committee (ALSC).   Non-coniferous (hardwood) and manufactured wood, such as particleboard and plywood, are exempt from this requirement.

  

D.3.	3052.223-70  REMOVAL OR DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES -APPLICABLE LICENSES AND PERMITS (JUN 2006)

The Contractor shall have all licenses and permits required by Federal, state, and local laws to perform hazardous substance(s) removal or disposal services. If the Contractor does not currently possess these documents, it shall obtain all requisite licenses and permits within 14 days after date of award. The Contractor shall provide evidence of said documents to the Contracting Officer or designated Government representative prior to commencement of work under the contract.
SECTION E Inspection and Acceptance 

 

 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 



  

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 



The following paragraph is applicable to all CLINS:



E.1.           INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE (DESTINATION)



Inspection and acceptance of the supplies or services to be furnished hereunder shall be made at destination by the receiving activity.




SECTION F Deliveries or Performance 

 

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 

 

  

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 



The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:

 

F.1.	3052.245-70     GOVERNMENT PROPERTY REPORTS (JUN 2006)

(a) The Contractor shall prepare an annual report of Government property in its possession and the possession of its subcontractors.

(b) The report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer not later than September 15 of each calendar year on DHS Form 0700-5, Contractor Report of Government Property.

F.2.	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY 



(a)	The Government will furnish the following property to the Contractor for use in performance of this contract in accordance with the following schedule:



PROPERTY			QUANTITY	  DATE *



See Attached Technical Exhibit TE-04



 (b)	Only the property listed above in the quantity shown will be furnished by the Government.  The Contractor shall furnish all other property required for performance of this contract.



F.3.	APPOINTMENT OF PROPERTY ADMINISTRATOR



The person named below is hereby designated by the Contracting Officer as the Property Administrator to insure compliance with the contract requirements and the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations Part 45 with respect to the control of Government property.



Name:   		TO BE DETERMINED AT TIME OF AWARED

Code:  		

Activity:   	

Address:   	

Phone No:  	

Fax No:	

Email:


F.4.	DURATION OF CONTRACT PERIOD



This contract shall become effective on 01 Jan 2011, or on the date of award, whichever is later, and shall continue in effect during the period ending 1 year later, unless terminated or extended in accordance with other provisions herein.



F.5.	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (SERVICES)



Services performed hereunder by the Contractor shall be performed primarily on the Plum Island, New York, and Orient Point, NY.  Other possible locations of Performance are , and Old Saybrook, CT.




SECTION G Contract Administration Data 



The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:



G.1.	CONTRACTOR POINT OF CONTACT



(a)  In the event your firm receives a contract as a result of this solicitation, designate a person whom the Government may contact during the period of the contract for prompt contract administration.



NAME:		

TITLE:		

ADDRESS: 	

		

PHONE:	

TOLL-FREE PHONE NO:   

FULL INTERNET E-MAIL ADDRESS:	

FAX NO:	



(b)  This contract may be subject to Contract Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).  Designate an individual who has the authority to review and provide comments on Government appraisals of your firm's performance under this contract.



NAME:		

TITLE:		

ADDRESS: 	

		

PHONE:	

TOLL-FREE PHONE NO:   

FULL INTERNET E-MAIL ADDRESS:	

FAX NO:	



G.2.	NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR -"REMIT TO" ADDRESS



The offeror shall indicate in the space provided below the address to which payment should be mailed, if such address is different from that shown for the offeror.  The address may be different but the contractor's name must be the same as page 1 on the resultant contract/order, or there must be a proper Notice of Assignment.  This invoice information is critical to prevent delays in payment.



		___________________________________________________

		___________________________________________________



G.3.	CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION PLAN 



In order to expedite administration of this contract/order, the following delineation of duties is provided.  The names, addresses, e-mail addresses and phone numbers for each individual or office is specified below or will be provided upon award.  The individual/ position designated as having responsibility should be contacted for any questions, clarifications or information regarding the functions assigned.



1.   PROCURING CONTRACTING OFFICER (PCO) is responsible for:



	a.  All pre-award information, questions, or data;

	b.  Freedom of Information inquiries;

	c.  Change/question/information regarding the scope, terms or conditions of the basic contract document; 

       and/or

	d.  Arranging the post-award conference (see FAR 42.503).



Name:		Courtney Byrd

E-mail:		Courtney.Byrd@dhs.gov

Phone:		202-254-2296



2.   CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR is delegated responsibility for matters specified IAW FAR 42.302:



Name:		Rebecca Pastorella	

Address:		Rebecca Pastorella/S&T/OPO, Rm 6-010A, Mail Stop:  0210

Department of Homeland Security

245 Murray Lane, SW, Building 410

		Washington, DC  20528-0210		

E-mail:		Rebecca.Pastorella@dhs.gov

Phone:		202-254-2272

BB:		202-713-6249



3.   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY (DCAA) is responsible for audit verification and final audit of the contract prior to final payment to the contractor.



Name:		TO BE DETERMININED AT CONTRACT AWARD

E-mail:		

Phone:		



4.   PAYING OFFICE is responsible for payment of proper invoices after acceptance is documented.



Name:		TO BE DETERMINED AT CONTRACT AWARD

Address:

Phone:



5.   CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR) is responsible for:



a.	Liaison with personnel at the Government Facility and the contractor personnel on site;

	b.	Technical advice/recommendations/clarification on the statement of work (SOW);

	c.	An independent government cost estimate of the effort described in the SOW of the contract	d.	Quality assurance of services performed and acceptance of the services or deliverables;

	e. 	Security requirements on Government installation;

	f. 	Review of invoice/cost vouchers for payment; 

g. 	Generation of CPARS report after completion of each period of performance (i.e., base period, 		option year, etc.).

h.	Maintaining cognizance over the performance of any assigned Technical Assistants (TA's).

i.	Perform periodic surveillance/audits of contractor performance.



NOTE:  When, in the opinion of the Contractor, the COTR requests effort outside the existing scope of the contract, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing.  No action shall be taken by the contractor under such direction until the Contracting Officer has issued a modification to the contract; or until the issue has otherwise been resolved.



THE COTR IS NOT A CONTRACTING OFFICER AND DOES NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO DIRECT THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF EFFORT WHICH IS BEYOND THE SOW IN THE CONTRACT.



COTR Name:	TO BE DETERMINED AT CONTRACT AWARD

Address:		

E-mail:		

Phone:		



In the event that the COTR named above is absent due to leave, illness, or official business, all responsibilities and functions assigned to the COTR will be the responsibility of the Alternate COTR listed below:



ACOTR Name:	TO BE DETERMINED AT CONTRACT AWARD

Address:		

E-mail:		 

Phone:		 








SECTION H Special Contract Requirements 

 

 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 

 

The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:



H.1	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY-INCREMENTAL FUNDING 



This contract is incrementally funded and the amount currently available for payment hereunder is limited to $_______ inclusive of fee.  It is estimated that these funds will cover the cost of performance through _________.  Subject to the provisions of the clause entitled "Limitation of Funds" (FAR 52.232-22) of the General Provisions of this contract, no legal liability on the part of the Government for payment in excess $___________ shall arise unless additional funds are made available and are incorporated as a modification to this contract.



H.2.	REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 



A status report shall be submitted on a monthly basis to the Procuring Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer's Technical Representative, and Administrative Contracting Officer (if applicable).  The report shall provide the number of hours expended, the total cost incurred to date, data status and delivery status.



H.3.	CONVERTION TO FIRM, FIXED-PRICE CLINS



The Government intends, after 18 months of services to conduct an analysis of the services being performed, to see if any additional portion of the Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee CLINs can be converted to Firm, Fixed-Price.  If areas of Services are determined to have the capability to be Firm, Fixed-Price, the Government intends to negotiate with the contractor for Firm, Fixed-Price CLINs for the next option period.  To that end, as part of the Monthly Funds Expenditure Report, contractors are required to submit a funds breakdown by work breakdown structure. 



H.4.	3052.209-72 Organizational Conflict of Interest (JUN 2006) 



 (a) Determination. The Government has determined that this effort may result in an actual or potential conflict of interest, or may provide one or more offerors with the potential to attain an unfair competitive advantage.  The offeror must provide a statement that no past, present or planned organizational, financial, contractual, or other interests with an organization whose interests may be substantially affected by Departmental activities and which is related to the work under this requirement. 

(b) If any such conflict of interest is found to exist, the Contracting Officer may (1) disqualify the offeror, or (2) determine that it is otherwise in the best interest of the  to contract with the offeror and include the appropriate provisions to avoid, neutralize, mitigate, or waive such conflict in the contract awarded. After discussion with the offeror, the Contracting Officer may determine that the actual conflict cannot be avoided, neutralized, mitigated or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the Government, and the offeror may be found ineligible for award. [Check one]:

(c) Disclosure: The offeror hereby represents, to the best of its knowledge that:

_X_ (1) It is not aware of any facts which create any actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest relating to the award of this contract, or

___ (2) It has included information in its proposal, providing all current information bearing on the existence of any actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest, and has included a mitigation plan in accordance with paragraph (d) of this provision. (d) Mitigation. If an offeror with a potential or actual conflict of interest or unfair competitive advantage believes the conflict can be avoided, neutralized, or mitigated, the offeror shall submit a mitigation plan to the Government for review. Award of a contract where an actual or potential conflict of interest exists shall not occur before Government approval of the mitigation plan. If a mitigation plan is approved, the restrictions of this provision do not apply to the extent defined in the mitigation plan. (e) Other Relevant Information: In addition to the mitigation plan, the Contracting Officer may require further relevant information from the offeror. The Contracting Officer will use all information submitted by the offeror, and any other relevant information known to DHS, to determine whether an award to the offeror may take place, and whether the mitigation plan adequately neutralizes or mitigates the conflict. (f) Corporation Change. The successful offeror shall inform the Contracting Officer within thirty (30) calendar days of the effective date of any corporate mergers, acquisitions, and/or divestures that may affect this provision. (g) Flow-down. The contractor shall insert the substance of this clause in each first tier subcontract that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold.



H.5	RIGHTS IN DATA -- FACILITIES 



(a) Definitions. 

    

    (1) Computer data bases, as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software.



    (2) Computer software, as used in this clause, means (i) computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and (ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases.

    

    (3) Data, as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term “data” does not include data incidental to the administration of this contract, such as financial, administrative, cost and pricing, or management 

information.

    

     (4) Limited rights data, as used in this clause, means data, other than computer software, developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged. The Government's rights to use, duplicate, or disclose limited rights data are as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of subparagraph (e) of this clause.



    (5) Restricted computer software, as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and is confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of any such computer software. The Government's rights to 

use, duplicate, or disclose restricted computer software are as set forth in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (f) of this clause.



    (6) Technical data, as used in this clause, means recorded data, regardless of form or characteristic, that are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base.



    (7) Unlimited rights, as used in this clause, means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivativeworks, distribute copies to the public, including by electronic means, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner, including by electronic means, and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so.



(b) Allocation of Rights. 



    (1) The Government shall have:



          (i) Ownership of all technical data and computer software first produced in the performance of this Contract;



          (ii) Unlimited rights in technical data and computer software specifically used in the performance of this Contract, except as provided herein regarding copyright, limited rights data, or restricted computer software, or except for other data specifically protected by statute for a period of time or as otherwise approved by DHS;    

         

          (iii) The right to inspect technical data and computer software first produced or specifically used in the performance of this Contract 

at all reasonable times. The Contractor shall make available all necessary facilities to allow DHS personnel to perform such inspection;

         

          (iv) The right to have all technical data and computer software first produced or specifically used in the performance of this Contract delivered to the Government or otherwise disposed of by the Contractor, either as the contracting officer may from time to time direct during the progress of the work or in any event as the contracting officer shall direct upon completion or termination of this Contract. The Contractor agrees to leave a copy of such data at the facility or plant to which such data relate, and to make available for access or to deliver to the Government such data upon request by the contracting officer. If such data are limited rights data or restricted computer software, the rights of the Government in such data shall be governed solely by the provisions of paragraph (e) of this clause (“Rights in Limited Rights Data”) or paragraph (f) of this clause (“Rights in 

Restricted Computer Software”); and

        

          (v) The right to remove, cancel, correct, or ignore any markings not authorized by the terms of this Contract on any data furnished hereunder if, in response to a written inquiry by DHS concerning the propriety of the markings, the Contractor fails to respond thereto within 60 days or fails to substantiate the propriety of the markings. In either case DHS will notify the Contractor of the action taken.

   

    (2) The Contractor shall have:

    

          (i) The right to withhold limited rights data and restricted computer software unless otherwise provided in accordance with the provisions of this clause; and

 

         (ii) The right to use for its private purposes, subject to patent, security or other provisions of this Contract, data it first produces in the performance of this Contract, except for data identified by the Contracting Officer, provided the data requirements of this Contract have been met as of the date of the private use of such data.



    (3) The Contractor agrees that for limited rights data or restricted computer software or other technical, business or financial data in the form of recorded information which it receives from, or is given access to by, DHS or a third party, including a DHS Contractor or subcontractor, and for technical data or computer software it first 

produces under this Contract which is authorized to be marked by DHS, the Contractor shall treat such data in accordance with any restrictive legend contained thereon.



(c) Copyrighted Material.

    

      (1) The Contractor shall not, without 

prior written authorization of the DHS Intellectual Property Counsel, assert copyright in any technical data or computer software first produced in the performance of this contract. To the extent such authorization is granted, the Government reserves for itself and others acting on its behalf, a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license for Governmental purposes to publish, distribute, translate, duplicate, exhibit, and perform any such data copyrighted by the Contractor.



     (2) The Contractor agrees not to include in the technical data or 

computer software delivered under the contract any material copyrighted 

by the Contractor and not to knowingly include any material copyrighted 

by others without first granting or obtaining at no cost a license 

therein for the benefit of the Government of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. If the Contractor believes that such copyrighted material for which the license cannot be obtained must be included in the technical data or computer software to be delivered, rather than merely incorporated therein by reference, the Contractor shall obtain the written authorization of the contracting officer to include such material in the technical data or computer software prior to its delivery.



(d) Subcontracting. 

    (1) Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, the Contractor agrees to use in subcontracts in which technical data or computer software is expected to be produced or in subcontracts for supplies that contain a requirement for production or delivery of data in accordance with the policy and procedures of 48 CFR Subpart 27.4, the clause entitled, “Rights in Data-General” at 48 CFR 52.227-14, including Alternates II, III, and V. Alternate IV of that clause may be included only with the prior approval of DHS Intellectual Property Counsel, and the Contractor shall not acquire rights in a subcontractor's limited rights data or restricted computer software, except through the use of Alternates II or III, respectively, without the prior approval of DHS Intellectual Property Counsel. The clause at 48 CFR 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, shall be included in subcontracts in accordance with FAR 27.409(h). The contractor shall use instead this Rights in Data-Facilities in subcontracts, including subcontracts for related support services, involving the design or operation of any plants or facilities or specially designed equipment for such plants or facilities that are managed or operated under its contract with DHS.

 

   (2) It is the responsibility of the Contractor to obtain from its subcontractors’ technical data and computer software and rights therein, on behalf of the Government, necessary to fulfill the Contractor's obligations to the Government with respect to such data. In the event of refusal by a subcontractor to accept a clause affording the Government such rights, the Contractor shall:

 

        (i) Promptly submit written notice to the contracting officer setting forth reasons or the subcontractor's refusal and other pertinent information which may expedite disposition of the matter, and

 

        (ii) Not proceed with the subcontract without the written authorization of the contracting officer.



    (3) Neither the Contractor nor higher-tier subcontractors shall use their power to award subcontracts as economic leverage to acquire rights in a subcontractor's limited rights data or restricted computer software for their private use.



 (e) Rights in Limited Rights Data. Except as may be otherwise specified in this Contract as data which are not subject to this paragraph, the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant to the Government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, paid-up license by or for the Government, in any limited rights data of the Contractor specifically 

used in the performance of this Contract, provided, however, that to the extent that any limited rights data when furnished or delivered is specifically identified by the Contractor at the time of initial delivery to the Government or a representative of the Government, such data shall not be used within or outside the Government except as provided in the “Limited Rights Notice” set forth. All such limited rights data shall be marked with the following “Limited Rights Notice”:



Limited Rights Notice



    These data contain “limited rights data,” furnished under Contract No. ---------------- with the United States Department of Energy which may be duplicated and used by the Government with the express limitations that the “limited rights data” may not be disclosed outside the Government or be used for purposes of manufacture without prior permission of the Contractor, except that further disclosure or use may be made solely for the following purposes:



    (a) Use (except for manufacture) by support services contractors within the scope of their contracts;



    (b) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the ``limited rights data'' be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;



    (c) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Contract is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their contracts and under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;



    (d) This “limited rights data” may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence 

and not be further disclosed; and



    (e) Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part.



(End of notice)





 (f) Rights in Restricted Computer Software.

     (1) Except as may be otherwise specified in this Contract as data which are not subject to this paragraph, the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant to the Government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, paid-up, license by or for the Government, in any restricted computer software of the Contractor specifically used in the performance of this Contract, provided, however, that to the extent that any restricted computer software when furnished or delivered is specifically identified by the Contractor at the time of initial delivery to the Government or a representative of the Government, such data shall not be used within or outside the Government except as provided in the “Restricted Rights Notice” set forth below. All such restricted computer software shall be marked with the following “Restricted Rights Notice”:



Restricted Rights Notice-Long Form



    (a) This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Department of Energy Contract No. --------------. It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (b) of this notice.



    (b) This computer software may be:

 

         (1) Used or copied for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred;

 

         (2) Used, copied for use, in a backup or replacement computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative or is replaced;



         (3) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes;



         (4) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that only the portions of the derivative software consisting of the restricted computer software are to be made subject to the same 

restricted rights; and



         (5) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by contractors under a service contract (of the type defined in 48 CFR 37.101) in accordance with subparagraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this Notice, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights.



    (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software has been published under copyright, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the rights set forth in the restricted rights notice above.

  

   (d) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part.



(End of notice)



    (2) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be 

used.



Restricted Rights Notice--Short Form



    Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in the Long Form Notice of DHS Contract No. -------------- with (name of Contractor).



(End of notice)



     (3) If the software is embedded, or if it is commercially impractical to mark it with human readable text, then the symbol R and the clause date (mo/yr), in brackets or a box, a [R-mo/yr], may be used. This will be read to mean restricted computer software, subject to the rights of the Government as described in the Long Form Notice, in effect as of the date indicated next to the symbol. The symbol shall not be used to mark human readable material. In the event this Contract contains any variation to the rights in the Long Form Notice, then the contract number must also be cited.



    (4) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, the software will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the Government without disclosure prohibitions and with unlimited rights, unless the Contractor includes the following statement with such copyright notice “Unpublished-rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States.”

 

(g) Relationship to patents. Nothing contained in this clause creates or is intended to imply a license to the Government in any patent or is intended to be construed as affecting the scope of any licenses or other rights otherwise granted to the Government under any patent.



H.6.	POST-AWARD CONFERENCE



(a) A post-award conference shall be conducted within FOURTEEN days after contract award

with representatives of the Contractor, the Program Office, and the Contracting Officer at  TO BE DETERMINED AT TIME OF AWARD. The Contracting Officer, or designated representative, initiating the conference will designate, or act as, the chairperson.  The conference arrangements will be made by the Contract Administrator, including notification to the Contractor, Program Office, and the Contracting Officer.



(b) The requirement for a post-award conference shall in no event constitute grounds for excusable delay by the Contractor in performance of any provisions in the contract.



H.7.	CONTINUITY OF CRITICAL CONTRACTOR DELIVERABLES [SERVICES AND/OR SUPPLIES] IN THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY (OCT 2009)



The contractor shall submit to the contracting officer a contingency plan (the “Plan”) for providing uninterrupted mission critical contract deliverables for services and/or supplies in the event of an H1N1 epidemic or other emergency.   

The Contracting Officer has identified all or a portion of the contract deliverables services and/or supplies under this contract as critical contract deliverables services and/or supplies in support of mission critical functions.  The contractor-provided deliverables that have been determined to be critical contractor services and/or supplies in support of mission critical functions are listed in Attachment ____, Mission Essential Contractor Deliverables Services and/or Supplies, dated ____. 



The contractor shall formulate the proposed Plan prior to the award of this contract, or at the time of incorporation of this clause into a contract by modification, for continuing the performance of critical contract deliverables [services/supplies] as identified in Attachment [___] above during an emergency.  



The contractor shall identify in the Plan provisions made for the acquisition of necessary personnel, resources and/or supplies, if necessary, for continuity of operations for up to thirty (30) days or until normal operations can be resumed;



The Plan must, at a minimum, address and identify –

Challenges associated with maintaining contractor critical deliverables services and/or supplies] during an extended emergency event, such as a pandemic that may occur in repetitious waves;



Any time lapse associated with the initiation of the acquisition of necessary personnel, resources and/or supplies and their actual availability on site; 



The components, processes, and requirements for the identification, training, and preparedness of contractor personnel who are capable of relocating to alternative facilities or performing work from home;  

Any established alert and notification procedures for mobilizing identified “critical contractor service personnel”; 



The approach for communicating expectations to contractor employees regarding their roles and responsibilities during an emergency.      



Any associated  changes needed to the contractor’s information technology (IT) infrastructure to support the contract in an emergency; and



Any costs associated with implementing the Plan, if applicable. 



The contractor recognizes that the contract deliverables services and/or supplies under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption.  In the event the contractor anticipates not being able to perform due to any of the causes enumerated in the excusable delay clause of this contract, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer or other designated representative as expeditiously as possible and use its best efforts to cooperate with the Government in the Government’s efforts to maintain the continuity of operations. 



The Government reserves the right in such emergency situations to use Federal employees of other agencies or contract support from other contractors or to enter into new contracts for critical contractor deliverables services and/or supplies.  Any new contracting efforts would be conducted in accordance with OFPP letter, “Emergency Acquisitions” May 2007 and FAR Subpart 18 and HSAM 3018 respectively or any other subsequent emergency guidance issued. 



Any proposed costs associated with implementing the Plan will be evaluated by the contracting officer as part of the initial competition, or at the time they are submitted as proposed costs under a contract modification which incorporates this clause.  The Plan is exercisable as an option in the event of an emergency at the amounts specified in or reasonably determinable from the terms of the basic contract, or the contract as modified. 



In the event the contractor’s Plan is exercised by the Government, the contracting officer shall include a written determination in the contract file that the costs associated with the Plan are fair and reasonable and are at the exact same terms as the base contract award, or as the contract as modified. 



This clause shall be included in subcontracts for the critical deliverables services and/or supplies. 



H.8.	ADVERTISEMENTS, PUBLICIZING AWARDS, AND NEWS RELEASES



All press releases or announcements about agency programs, projects, and contract awards need to be cleared by the Program Office and the Contracting Officer.  Under no circumstances shall the contractor, or anyone acting on behalf of the Contractor, refer to the supplies, services, or equipment furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any publicity news release or commercial advertising without first obtaining explicit written consent to do so from the Program Office and the contracting Officer.



The Contractor agrees not to refer to awards in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed or preferred by the Federal Government or is considered by the Government to be superior to other products or services.




SECTION I Contract Clauses 



I.1.	52.252-2   CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses:

	

FAR clauses	   http://www.arnet.gov/far/

	   

   CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 











CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 



The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:

I.2.	52.215-19    NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT 1997)



(a) The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing:



(1) When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) within 30 days.



(2) The Contractor shall also notify the ACO within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership.



(b) The Contractor shall--



(1) Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs;



(2) Provide the ACO or designated representative ready access to the records upon request;



(3) Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor's ownership changes; and



(4) Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change.




(c) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).



I.3.	52.217-8     OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in contract.  These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days prior to expiration of contract.



I.4.	52.217-9     OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)



(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.



(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.



(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years.

I.5.	52.219-17      SECTION 8(A) AWARD (DEC 1996)

(a) By execution of a contract, the Small Business Administration (SBA) agrees to the following:

(1) To furnish the supplies or services set forth in the contract according to the specifications and the terms and conditions by subcontracting with the Offeror who has been determined an eligible concern pursuant to the provisions of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 637(a)).

(2) Except for novation agreements and advance payments, delegates to the DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY the responsibility for administering the contract with complete authority to take any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract; provided, however that the contracting agency shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating the right of the subcontractor to proceed with further performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract.

(3) That payments to be made under the contract will be made directly to the subcontractor by the contracting activity.

(4) To notify the DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY Contracting Officer immediately upon notification by the subcontractor that the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility was based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern.

(5) That the subcontractor awarded a subcontract hereunder shall have the right of appeal from decisions of the cognizant Contracting Officer under the “Disputes” clause of the subcontract.(b) The offeror/subcontractor agrees and acknowledges that it will, for and on behalf of the SBA, fulfill and perform all of the requirements of the contract.

(c) The offeror/subcontractor agrees that it will not subcontract the performance of any of the requirements of this subcontract to any lower tier subcontractor without the prior written approval of the SBA and the cognizant Contracting Officer of the DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

I.6.	52.219-18   NOTIFICATION OF COMPETITION LIMITED TO ELIGIBLE 8(A) CONCERNS (JUNE 2003)

(a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA’s 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer --

(1) The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and

(2) The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action directed by the SBA.

(b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause.

(c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the successful 8(a) offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation.

(d)

(1) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the  or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply in connection with construction or service contracts.

(2) The ____________ [insert name of SBA’s contractor] will notify the DHS OPO Contracting Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest to any other party.

I.7.	52.222-42      STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)



In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332. 



THIS STATEMENT IS FOR INFORMATION ONLY:  IT IS NOT A WAGE DETERMINATION





Fringe Benefits – Federal Employees:



1.  Contribution of five point one (5.1) percent of basic hourly rate for health & insurance.



2.  Contribution of seven (7) percent of basic hourly rate for retirement.



3.  Ten (10) paid holidays as follows: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, President’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.



4.  Paid annual leave (vacation) as follows:



Two (2) hours of annual leave each week for an employee with less than three years of service.

Three (3) hours of annual leave each week for an employee with three (3) but less than fifteen (15) years of service.

Four (4) hours of annual leave each week for an employee with fifteen (15) or more years of service.



I.8.	52.223-3    HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA (JAN 1997)

(a) “Hazardous material,” as used in this clause, includes any material defined as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313 (including revisions adopted during the term of the contract).

(b) The offeror must list any hazardous material, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, to be delivered under this contract. The hazardous material shall be properly identified and include any applicable identification number, such as National Stock Number or Special Item Number. This information shall also be included on the Material Safety Data Sheet submitted under this contract.

(c) This list must be updated during performance of the contract whenever the Contractor determines that any other material to be delivered under this contract is hazardous.

(d) The apparently successful offeror agrees to submit, for each item as required prior to award, a Material Safety Data Sheet, meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313, for all hazardous material identified in paragraph (b) of this clause. Data shall be submitted in accordance with Federal Standard No. 313, whether or not the apparently successful offeror is the actual manufacturer of these items. Failure to submit the Material Safety Data Sheet prior to award may result in the apparently successful offeror being considered nonresponsible and ineligible for award.

(e) If, after award, there is a change in the composition of the item(s) or a revision to Federal Standard No. 313, which renders incomplete or inaccurate the data submitted under paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and resubmit the data.

(f) Neither the requirements of this clause nor any act or failure to act by the Government shall relieve the Contractor of any responsibility or liability for the safety of Government, Contractor, or subcontractor personnel or property.

(g) Nothing contained in this clause shall relieve the Contractor from complying with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits) in connection with hazardous material.

(h) The Government’s rights in data furnished under this contract with respect to hazardous material are as follows:

(1) To use, duplicate and disclose any data to which this clause is applicable. The purposes of this right are to --

(i) Apprise personnel of the hazards to which they may be exposed in using, handling, packaging, transporting, or disposing of hazardous materials;

(ii) Obtain medical treatment for those affected by the material; and

(iii) Have others use, duplicate, and disclose the data for the Government for these purposes.

(2) To use, duplicate, and disclose data furnished under this clause, in accordance with subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, in precedence over any other clause of this contract providing for rights in data.

(3) The Government is not precluded from using similar or identical data acquired from other sources.

I.9.	52.223-07  NOTICE OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS (JAN 1997)



(a) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer or designee, in writing, 15 (fifteen) calendar days prior to the delivery of, or prior to completion of any servicing required by this contract of, items containing either (1) radioactive material requiring specific licensing under the regulations issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, as set forth in Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in effect on the date of this contract, or (2) other radioactive material not requiring specific licensing in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or the activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries.  Such notice shall specify the part or parts of the items which contain radioactive materials, a description of the materials, the name and activity of the isotope, the manufacturer of the materials, and any other information known to the Contractor which will put users of the items on notice as to the hazards involved (OMB No. 9000-0107).



[  X  ]  The Contracting Officer shall insert the number of days required in advance of delivery of the item or completion of the servicing to assure that required licenses are obtained and appropriate personnel are notified to institute any necessary safety and health precautions. See FAR 23.601(d).



(b) If there has been no change affecting the quantity of activity, or the characteristics and composition of the radioactive material from deliveries under this contract or prior contracts, the Contractor may request that the Contracting Officer or designee waive the notice requirement in paragraph (a) of this clause. Any such request shall-



(1) Be submitted in writing;



(2) State that the quantity of activity, characteristics, and composition of the radioactive material have not changed; and



(3) Cite the contract number on which the prior notification was submitted and the contracting office to which it was submitted.



(c) All items, parts, or subassemblies which contain radioactive materials in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries, and all containers in which such items, parts or subassemblies are delivered to the Government shall be clearly marked and labeled as required by the latest revision of MIL-STD 129 in effect on the date of the contract.



(d) This clause, including this paragraph (d), shall be inserted in all subcontracts for radioactive materials meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this clause. 



I.10.	3052.209-70   Prohibition on contracts with corporate expatriates (JUN 2006)



 (a) Prohibitions.

Section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395, prohibits the Department of Homeland Security from entering into any contract with a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation as defined in this clause, or with any subsidiary of such an entity. The Secretary shall waive the prohibition with respect to any specific contract if the Secretary determines that the waiver is required in the interest of national security.

(b) Definitions. As used in this clause:

Expanded Affiliated Group means an affiliated group as defined in section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (without regard to section 1504(b) of such Code), except that section 1504 of such Code shall be applied by substituting `more than 50 percent' for `at least 80 percent' each place it appears.

Foreign Incorporated Entity means any entity which is, or but for subsection (b) of section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395, would be, treated as a foreign corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

Inverted Domestic Corporation. A foreign incorporated entity shall be treated as an inverted domestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related transactions)—

(1) The entity completes the direct or indirect acquisition of substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a domestic corporation or substantially all of the properties constituting a trade or business of a domestic partnership;

(2) After the acquisition at least 80 percent of the stock (by vote or value) of the entity is

held—

(i) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic corporation, by former shareholders of the domestic corporation by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation; or

(ii) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic partnership, by former partners of the domestic partnership by reason of holding a capital or profits interest in the domestic partnership; and

(3) The expanded affiliated group which after the acquisition includes the entity does not have substantial business activities in the foreign country in which or under the law of which the entity is created or organized when compared to the total business activities of such expanded affiliated group.

Person, domestic, and foreign have the meanings given such terms by paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) of section 7701(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, respectively. (c) Special rules. The following definitions and special rules shall apply when determining whether a foreign incorporated entity should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation.

(1) Certain Stock Disregarded. For the purpose of treating a foreign incorporated entity as an inverted domestic corporation these shall not be taken into account in determining ownership:

(i) Stock held by members of the expanded affiliated group which includes the foreign incorporated entity; or

(ii) stock of such entity which is sold in a public offering related to the acquisition described in subsection (b)(1) of Section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395(b)(1).

(2) Plan Deemed In Certain Cases. If a foreign incorporated entity acquires directly or indirectly substantially all of the properties of a domestic corporation or partnership during the 4-year period beginning on the date which is 2 years before the ownership requirements of subsection (b)(2) are met, such actions shall be treated as pursuant to a plan.

(3) Certain Transfers Disregarded. The transfer of properties or liabilities (including by contribution or distribution) shall be disregarded if such transfers are part of a plan a principal purpose of which is to avoid the purposes of this section.

(d) Special Rule for Related Partnerships. For purposes of applying section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395(b) to the acquisition of a domestic partnership, except as provided in regulations, all domestic partnerships which are under common control (within the meaning of section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) shall be treated as a partnership.

(e) Treatment of Certain Rights.

(1) Certain rights shall be treated as stocks to the extent necessary to reflect the present

value of all equitable interests incident to the transaction, as follows:

(i) warrants;

(ii) options;

(iii) contracts to acquire stock;

(iv) convertible debt instruments; and

(v) others similar interests.

(2) Rights labeled as stocks shall not be treated as stocks whenever it is deemed appropriate to do so to reflect the present value of the transaction or to disregard transactions whose recognition would defeat the purpose of Section 835.

(f) Disclosure. The offeror under this solicitation represents that [Check one]:

_X_ it is not a foreign incorporated entity that should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.104-70 through 3009.104-

73;

__ it is a foreign incorporated entity that should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.104-70 through 3009.104- 73, but it has submitted a request for waiver pursuant to 3009.104-74, which has not been denied; or

__ it is a foreign incorporated entity that should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.104-70 through 3009.104-73, but it plans to submit a request for waiver pursuant to 3009.104-74.

(g) A copy of the approved waiver, if a waiver has already been granted, or the waiver request, if a waiver has been applied for, shall be attached to the bid or proposal.



I.11.	3052.215-70   KEY PERSONNEL OR FACILITIES (DEC 2003)



(a) The personnel and facilities specified in this contract are considered essential to the work being performed under this contract and may, with the consent of the contracting parties, be changed from time to time during the course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel or facilities, as appropriate and under the conditions specified below. 



(b) Before removing or replacing any of the specified individuals or facilities, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, before the change becomes effective. The Contractor shall submit sufficient information to support the proposed action and to enable the Contracting Officer to evaluate the potential impact of the change on this contract. The Contractor shall not remove or replace personnel or facilities until the Contracting Officer approves the change.



I.12.	3052.222-70    STRIKES OR PICKETING AFFECTING TIMELY COMPLETION OF THE CONTRACT 	WORK (DEC 2003)

Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Contractor is responsible for delays arising out of labor disputes, including but not limited to strikes, if such strikes are reasonably avoidable. A delay caused by a strike or by picketing which constitutes an unfair labor practice is not excusable unless the Contractor takes all reasonable and appropriate action to end such a strike or picketing, such as the filing of a charge with the National Labor Relations Board, the use of other available Government procedures, and the use of private boards or organizations for the settlement of disputes.


I.13.	3052.222-71    STRIKES OR PICKETING AFFECTING ACCESS TO A DHS FACILITY (DEC 2003)

If the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor in writing that a strike or picketing: (a) is directed at the Contractor or subcontractor or any employee of either; and (b) impedes or threatens to impede access by any person to a DHS facility where the site of the work is located, the Contractor shall take all appropriate action to end such strike or picketing, including, if necessary, the filing of a charge of unfair labor practice with the National Labor Relations Board or the use of other available judicial or administrative remedies.

I.14.	3052.242-71     DISSEMINATION OF CONTRACT INFORMATION   (DEC 2003)

The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute for public consumption, any information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. An electronic or printed copy of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer.

I.15.	3052.242-72    CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 2003)

(a) The Contracting Officer may designate Government personnel to act as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to perform functions under the contract such as review or inspection and acceptance of supplies, services, including construction, and other functions of a technical nature. The Contracting Officer will provide a written notice of such designation to the Contractor within five working days after contract award or for construction, not less than five working days prior to giving the contractor the notice to proceed. The designation letter will set forth the authorities and limitations of the COTR under the contract.

(b) The Contracting Officer cannot authorize the COTR or any other representative to sign documents, such as contracts, contract modifications, etc., that require the signature of the Contracting Officer.

The following paragraphs are applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS:



I.16.	52.216-7     ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002) 



(a) Invoicing. (1) The Government will make payments to the Contractor when requested as work progresses, but (except for small business concerns) not more often than once every 2 weeks, in amounts determined to be allowable by the Contracting Officer in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 31.2 in effect on the date of this contract and the terms of this contract. The Contractor may submit to an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, in such form and reasonable detail as the representative may require, an invoice or voucher supported by a statement of the claimed allowable cost for performing this contract.



(2) Contract financing payments are not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. Interim payments made prior to the final payment under the contract are contract financing payments, except interim payments if this contract contains Alternate I to the clause at 52.232-25.



(3) The designated payment office will make interim payments for contract financing on the 30th day after the designated billing office receives a proper payment request.



In the event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a specific payment request to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date.



(b) Reimbursing costs. (1) For the purpose of reimbursing allowable costs (except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, with respect to pension, deferred profit sharing, and employee stock ownership plan contributions), the term "costs" includes only-- 



(i) Those recorded costs that, at the time of the request for reimbursement, the Contractor has paid by cash, check, or other form of actual payment for items or services purchased directly for the contract; 



(ii) When the Contractor is not delinquent in paying costs of contract performance in the ordinary course of business, costs incurred, but not necessarily paid, for-- 



(A) Supplies and services purchased directly for the contract and associated financing payments to subcontractors, provided payments determined due will be made--



(1) In accordance with the terms and conditions of a subcontract or invoice; and



(2) Ordinarily within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor's payment request to the Government;



(B) Materials issued from the Contractor's inventory and placed in the production process for use on the contract; 



(C) Direct labor; 



(D) Direct travel; 



(E) Other direct in-house costs; and 



(F) Properly allocable and allowable indirect costs, as shown in the records maintained by the Contractor for purposes of obtaining reimbursement under Government contracts; and 



(iii) The amount of financing payments that have been paid by cash, check, or other forms of payment to subcontractors.



(2) Accrued costs of Contractor contributions under employee pension plans shall be excluded until actually paid unless—



(i) The Contractor's practice is to make contributions to the retirement fund quarterly or more frequently; and



(ii) The contribution does not remain unpaid 30 days after the end of the applicable quarter or shorter payment period (any contribution remaining unpaid shall be excluded from the Contractor's indirect costs for payment purposes).



(3) Notwithstanding the audit and adjustment of invoices or vouchers under paragraph (g) of this clause, allowable indirect costs under this contract shall be obtained by applying indirect cost rates established in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. 



(4) Any statements in specifications or other documents incorporated in this contract by reference designating performance of services or furnishing of materials at the Contractor's expense or at no cost to the Government shall be disregarded for purposes of cost-reimbursement under this clause. 



(c) Small business concerns. A small business concern may receive more frequent payments than every 2 weeks.



(d) Final indirect cost rates. (1) Final annual indirect cost rates and the appropriate bases shall be established in accordance with Subpart 42.7 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect for the period covered by the indirect cost rate proposal. 



(2)(i) The Contractor shall submit an adequate final indirect cost rate proposal to the Contracting Officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) and auditor within the 6-month period following the expiration of each of its fiscal years. Reasonable extensions, for exceptional circumstances only, may be requested in writing by the Contractor and granted in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall support its proposal with adequate supporting data. 



(ii) The proposed rates shall be based on the Contractor's actual cost experience for that period. The appropriate Government representative and the Contractor shall establish the final indirect cost rates as promptly as practical after receipt of the Contractor's proposal.



 (3) The Contractor and the appropriate Government representative shall execute a written understanding setting forth the final indirect cost rates. The understanding shall specify (i) the agreed-upon final annual indirect cost rates, (ii) the bases to which the rates apply, (iii) the periods for which the rates apply, (iv) any specific indirect cost items treated as direct costs in the settlement, and (v) the affected contract and/or subcontract, identifying any with advance agreements or special terms and the applicable rates. The understanding shall not change any monetary ceiling, contract obligation, or specific cost allowance or disallowance provided for in this contract. The understanding is incorporated into this contract upon execution. 



(4) Failure by the parties to agree on a final annual indirect cost rate shall be a dispute within the meaning of the Disputes clause. 



(5) Within 120 days (or longer period if approved in writing by the Contracting Officer) after settlement of the final annual indirect cost rates for all years of a physically complete contract, the Contractor shall submit a completion invoice or voucher to reflect the settled amounts and rates.



(6)(i) If the Contractor fails to submit a completion invoice or voucher within the time specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this clause, the Contracting Officer may--



(A) Determine the amounts due to the Contractor under the contract; and



(B) Record this determination in a unilateral modification to the contract.



(ii) This determination constitutes the final decision of the Contracting Officer in accordance with the Disputes clause.



(e) Billing rates. Until final annual indirect cost rates are established for any period, the Government shall reimburse the Contractor at billing rates established by the Contracting Officer or by an authorized representative (the cognizant auditor), subject to adjustment when the final rates are established. These billing rates-- 



(1) Shall be the anticipated final rates; and 



(2) May be prospectively or retroactively revised by mutual agreement, at either party's request, to prevent substantial overpayment or underpayment. 



(f) Quick-closeout procedures. Quick-closeout procedures are applicable when the conditions in FAR 42.708(a) are satisfied. 



(g) Audit. At any time or times before final payment, the Contracting Officer may have the Contractor's invoices or vouchers and statements of cost audited. Any payment may be (1) reduced by amounts found by the Contracting Officer not to constitute allowable costs or (2) adjusted for prior overpayments or underpayments. 



(h) Final payment. (1) Upon approval of a completion invoice or voucher submitted by the Contractor in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this clause, and upon the Contractor's compliance with all terms of this contract, the Government shall promptly pay any balance of allowable costs and that part of the fee (if any) not previously paid. 



(2) The Contractor shall pay to the Government any refunds, rebates, credits, or other amounts (including interest, if any) accruing to or received by the Contractor or any assignee under this contract, to the extent that those amounts are properly allocable to costs for which the Contractor has been reimbursed by the Government. Reasonable expenses incurred by the Contractor for securing refunds, rebates, credits, or other amounts shall be allowable costs if approved by the Contracting Officer. Before final payment under this contract, the Contractor and each assignee whose assignment is in effect at the time of final payment shall execute and deliver-- 



(i) An assignment to the Government, in form and substance satisfactory to the Contracting Officer, of refunds, rebates, credits, or other amounts (including interest, if any) properly allocable to costs for which the Contractor has been reimbursed by the Government under this contract; and 



(ii) A release discharging the Government, its officers, agents, and employees from all liabilities, obligations, and claims arising out of or under this contract, except-- 



(A) Specified claims stated in exact amounts, or in estimated amounts when the exact amounts are not known; 



(B) Claims (including reasonable incidental expenses) based upon liabilities of the Contractor to third parties arising out of the performance of this contract; provided, that the claims are not known to the Contractor on the date of the execution of the release, and that the Contractor gives notice of the claims in writing to the Contracting Officer within 6 years following the release date or notice of final payment date, whichever is earlier; and 



(C) Claims for reimbursement of costs, including reasonable incidental expenses, incurred by the Contractor under the patent clauses of this contract, excluding, however, any expenses arising from the Contractor's indemnification of the Government against patent liability. 

I.17.	52.222-2    PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS (JUL 1990)

(a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium does not exceed  

TO BE DETERMINED AT TIME OF AWARD or the overtime premium is paid for work --

(1) Necessary to cope with emergencies such as those resulting from accidents, natural disasters, breakdowns of production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature;

(2) By indirect-labor employees such as those performing duties in connection with administration, protection, transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation of utilities, or accounting;

(3) To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances, and operations in flight or afloat that are continuous in nature and cannot reasonably be interrupted or completed otherwise; or

(4) That will result in lower overall costs to the Government.

(b) Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall --

(1) Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with present workload, staffing, and other data of the affected unit sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the necessity for the overtime;

(2) Demonstrate the effect that denial of the request will have on the contract delivery or performance schedule;

(3) Identify the extent to which approval of overtime would affect the performance or payments in connection with other Government contracts, together with identification of each affected contract; and

(4) Provide reasons why the required work cannot be performed by using multishift operations or by employing additional personnel.

* Insert either “zero” or the dollar amount agreed to during negotiations. The inserted figure does not apply to the exceptions in subparagraph (a)(1) through (a)(4) of the clause.

I.18.	52.244-2 ALT I – SUBCONTRACTS (JUN 2007) – ALTERNATE I (JUN 2007)

 (a) Definitions. As used in this clause—

“Approved purchasing system” means a Contractor’s purchasing system that has been reviewed and approved in accordance with Part 44 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)

“Consent to subcontract” means the Contracting Officer’s written consent for the Contractor to enter into a particular subcontract.

“Subcontract” means any contract, as defined in FAR Subpart 2.1, entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of the prime contract or a subcontract. It includes, but is not limited to, purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders.

(b) When this clause is included in a fixed-price type contract, consent to subcontract is required only on unpriced contract actions (including unpriced modifications or unpriced delivery orders), and only if required in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause.

(c) If the Contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is required for any subcontract that-

(1) Is of the cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, or labor-hour type; or

(2) Is fixed-price and exceeds—

(i) For a contract awarded by the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard, or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the greater of the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract; or

(ii) For a contract awarded by a civilian agency other than the Coast Guard and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract.

(d) If the Contractor has an approved purchasing system, the Contractor nevertheless shall obtain the Contracting Officer’s written consent before placing the following subcontracts:

All Supplies and/or Services over the micro-purchase threshold ($3,000.00)

 (e)(1) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of placing any subcontract or modification thereof for which consent is required under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this clause, including the following information: 

(i) A description of the supplies or services to be subcontracted.

(ii) Identification of the type of subcontract to be used.

(iii) Identification of the proposed subcontractor.

(iv) The proposed subcontract price.

(v) The subcontractor’s current, complete, and accurate cost or pricing data and Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, if required by other contract provisions.

(vi) The subcontractor’s Disclosure Statement or Certificate relating to Cost Accounting Standards when such data are required by other provisions of this contract.

(vii) A negotiation memorandum reflecting -

(A) The principal elements of the subcontract price negotiations;

(B) The most significant considerations controlling establishment of initial or revised prices;

(C) The reason cost or pricing data were or were not required;

(D) The extent, if any, to which the Contractor did not rely on the subcontractor’s cost or pricing data in determining the price objective and in negotiating the final price;

(E) The extent to which it was recognized in the negotiation that the subcontractor’s cost or pricing data were not accurate, complete, or current; the action taken by the Contractor and the subcontractor; and the effect of any such defective data on the total price negotiated;

(F) The reasons for any significant difference between the Contractor’s price objective and the price negotiated; and

(G) A complete explanation of the incentive fee or profit plan when incentives are used. The explanation shall identify each critical performance element, management decisions used to quantify each incentive element, reasons for the incentives, and a summary of all trade-off possibilities considered.

(e)(2) If the Contractor has an approved purchasing system and consent is not required under paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause, the Contractor nevertheless shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of entering into any (i) cost-plus-fixed-fee subcontract, or (ii) fixed-price subcontract that exceeds either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of this contract. The notification shall include the information required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv) of this clause.

 (f) Unless the consent or approval specifically provides otherwise, neither consent by the Contracting Officer to any subcontract nor approval of the Contractor’s purchasing system shall constitute a determination -

(1) Of the acceptability of any subcontract terms or conditions;
(2) Of the allowability of any cost under this contract; or
(3) To relieve the Contractor of any responsibility for performing this contract.

(g) No subcontract or modification thereof placed under this contract shall provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis, and any fee payable under cost-reimbursement type subcontracts shall not exceed the fee limitations in FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(i).

(h) The Contractor shall give the Contracting Officer immediate written notice of any action or suit filed and prompt notice of any claim made against the Contractor by any subcontractor or vendor that, in the opinion of the Contractor, may result in litigation related in any way to this contract, with respect to which the Contractor may be entitled to reimbursement from the Government.

(i) The Government reserves the right to review the Contractor’s purchasing system as set forth in FAR Subpart 44.3.

(j) Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this clause do not apply to the following subcontracts, which were evaluated during negotiations: 


SECTION J List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments 

 

Attachments (Att’s)



Att 1	Statement of Work

  	

Technical Exhibits (TE’s) to the SOW



TE-01	Map

TE-02	Facilities Listing

TE-03	Equipment to be Maintained

TE-04	Government Furnished Property

TE-05	Custodial Areas & Services

TE-06	State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System

TE-07	Brookhaven National Lab MOr

TE-08	Sample Lunch Menu

TE-09	Ferry Schedule

TE-10	DHS Required Training Programs

TE-11	AAALAC Checklist-v1.6

TE-12	Orientation & Med Req Distrib Sheet



Attachments to SOW

	

	SOW Att 1  Visitor Affidavit

	SOW Att 2   Definitions & Acronyms

	SOW Att 3  General Conditions - PIADC Contractors	

	SOW Att 4  Visitor Authorization & Control Program





Att 2	SCA Wage Determination

Att 3	CBA		

Att 4	DD 254 Security Requirements

Att 5	Cost Plus Incentive Fee Plan

Att 6	Mandatory Cost Break-down 













Standing Operating Procedures (SOP’s)



Due to the large size of these files, SOP’s will only be available to interested parties on CD’s.  Please submit any requests, in writing to Becky Pastorella, email:  Rebecca.pastorella@dhs.gov.
SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS 



The following provisions are applicable to all CLINS:

K.1.	52.204-8 -- Annual Representations and Certifications.   (Feb 2009)

(a)	(1) The North American Industry classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 561210.

(2) The small business size standard is $35.5M.

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

(b)	(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies.

(2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certification in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:

[_] (i) Paragraph (d) applies.

[_] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation.

(c) 	1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:

(i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless—

(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13;

(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or

(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.

(ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $100,000.

(iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration.

(iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that—

(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns;

(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and

(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

(v) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

(vi) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(vii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(viii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard.

(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

(ix) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

(x) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.

(xi) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.

(xii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items.

(xiii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA-designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.

(xiv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA- designated items.

(xv) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1.

(xvi) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225- 3.

(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies.

(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies.

(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies.

(xvii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5.

(xviii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification.

(xix) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to—

(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and

(B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns.

(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer:

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]

___ (i) 52.219-19, Small Business Concern Representation for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program.

___ (ii) 52.219-21, Small Business Size Representation for Targeted Industry Categories Under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program.

___ (iii) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status.

___ (A) Basic.

___ (B) Alternate I.

___ (iv) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.

___ (v) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification.

___ (vi) 52.222-52 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Certification.

___ (vii) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Products (Alternate I only).

___ (viii) 52.223-13, Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting.

___ (ix) 52.227-6, Royalty Information.

___ (A) Basic.

___ (B) Alternate I.

___ (x) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.

 (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at  . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.

The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:



K.2.	AUTHORIZED NEGOTIATORS



The offeror or quoter represents that the following persons are authorized to negotiate on its behalf with the Government in connection with this request for proposal or quotation [list names, titles, telephone numbers, 

and e-mail addresses of the authorized negotiators]:  



      ________________________________________________________________________________



      ________________________________________________________________________________



K.3.	EXCLUSION OF STANDARD COMMERCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS



Where a bidder/offeror uses forms other than or in addition to, those supplied with this solicitation in the submission of his bid/offer, and where such other forms contain terms, conditions or provisions which conflict with, or unacceptably add to, the terms and conditions of this solicitation, the bid/offer may be rejected as non-responsive. Where a bidder/offeror intends to use said forms but does not intend to make bid/offer which varies from the terms and conditions of the solicitation, he shall mark the following agreement in the box provided below:



(   ) The bidder/offeror agrees that all terms, conditions or provisions which are commercially printed on his standard quotation or proposal forms or letterheads are to be excluded from his bid/offer insofar as they conflict with or unacceptably add to the terms and conditions of this solicitation.






SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS 



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 





  

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 

 

The following provisions are applicable to all CLINS:



L.1.	52.215-20      REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997)—ALTERNATE IV (OCT 1997)



(a) Submission of cost or pricing data is not required.



(b) Provide information described below:     As identified in paragraph entitled “Proposal Submission Requirements” 





L.2.	52.216-1     TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)



The Government contemplates a award of a Hybrid Contract, (with Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee and Firm, Fixed-Price Line items) Services, single award, type contract resulting from this solicitation.



L.3.	52.233-2     SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

 

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from 



COURTNEY BYRD/S&T/OPO, RM # 6-159, MAIL STOP:  0210

Department of Homeland Security (DHS)

, Building 410

Washington, DC 20528-0210



(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 



The following paragraphs are applicable to all CLINS:



L.4.	INSPECTION OF SITE 



Offerors will be invited to inspect the Government Facility Site at Plum Island Animal Disease Control (PIADC), Orient Point, NY, where services are to be performed.  The Phase 2 Site Visit & Due Diligence is attentively set for   ___TBD___Jun 2010.



L.5.	REVIEW OF AGENCY PROTESTS 



(a)  The procedures set forth in FAR 33.103 will be followed for submission and handling of agency protests.



(b)  All protests filed directly with the agency, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer.  A protester may appeal a decision rendered by a Contracting Officer to the Reviewing Official.



(c)  Offerors should note that a review of the Contracting Officer’s decision will not extend GAO’s timeliness requirements.  Therefore, any subsequent protest to GAO must be filed within 10 days of knowledge of initial adverse agency action.



L.6.	PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE



(a)	A Pre-Proposal Conference for all prospective offerors will be held at Plum Island Animal Disease Control (PIADC), Orient Point, NY,  ____To Be Determined (TBD)____Apr 2010.  Questions will be answered relative to this procurement.



(b)	All prospective offerors are urged to attend this conference.  In order to make the conference as productive as possible, offerors are requested to submit any questions they may have in writing to the Contract Specialist, rebecca.pastorella@dhs.gov.  



(c)	Failure of a prospective offeror to submit any questions or to attend the conference will be construed to mean that the offeror fully understands all requirements of the solicitation.  Prospective offerors are advised that the Pre-Proposal Conference will be held solely for the purpose of explaining the specifications and terms and conditions in this solicitation.  All prospective offerors are advised that at the conclusion of the conference, unless this solicitation is amended in writing, it will remain unchanged, and that if an amendment is issued, normal procedures relating to the acknowledgement and receipt of any such amendment shall be applicable.  In no event will failure to attend the Pre-Proposal Conference constitute grounds for a claim after award of the contract.



(d)  The offeror shall also notify the Contracting Officer in writing of the names of those company officials, who intent to attend the conference at least 14 working days before the date of the conference.  The attached Visitor Application must be filled out and returned to the above Contract Specialist.

 (e) Be advised that to get access to the island, you will need a Government issued photo identification (A photo ID, such as a state-issued driving license or a United States passport, is required to be allowed on either of the ferries at the New York and Connecticut harbors).  DHS PIADC, at its own discretion, reserves the right to deny access to and, if necessary escort from, Plum Island any individual. Please be advised that you cannot bring a cell phone with a camera, or a laptop to the Island. 

(f) Departure Time and Directions to Plum Island from New York :

Ferry departure from Orient Point , New York , will be at __TBD___am Eastern Standard Time.  Please arrive at least 15 minutes prior to departure.  Travel time by ferry takes approximately 15 minutes.  There is no charge for this transportation.

To get to the harbor at Orient Point:  Take the Long Island Expressway (LIE) Eastbound to the end which is Exit 73 toward Greenport/Orient; Continue through Riverhead; Go through Riverhead Circle, continuing straight on the same road which is CR58 (you will drive past a Hess gas station on left); Take a left onto Northville Turnpike which is CR43; Continue to the end of CR43; At the stop sign, take a right on Sound Avenue which is CR48; Continue East to the end of Sound Avenue, which changes from CR48 to CR25; Continue on CR25, which also will be known as Main Road; Continue up to the Orient Point State Park; Pass the PIADC Employee Entrance (do not go into the Employee Entrance) and proceed to and enter at the Visitor Gate which is the East Gate of PIADC ferry parking lot where you will park and walk to the ferry.  Please allow for potential delays due to slow-moving farm equipment on Sound Avenue when estimating driving time.

The return ferry trip from Plum Island to Orient Point will be at __TBD___ pm Eastern Standard Time.

(g) Departure Time and Directions to Plum Island from Connecticut :

 Ferry departure from Old Saybrook , Connecticut , will be at __TBD___am Eastern StandardTime.  Please arrive at least 15 minutes prior to departure.  Travel time by ferry takes approximately 40 minutes.  There is no charge for this transportation.

To get to the Harbor One Marina at Saybrook Point in Old Saybrook:  Take Interstate 95 (Northbound or Southbound) to Exit 67 (Old Saybrook onto Middlesex Turnpike which is Route 154) to downtown Old Saybrook; Continue straight onto US-1 (for approximately half a mile, Route 154 and US-1, also known as the Boston Post Road, run together); Turn or bear left onto Main Street (which is, again, Route 154); Continue to the end of Main Street to the last stop sign (where you will see the water); At the stop sign, make a right (you will see the Saybrook Point Inn and its parking lot); After the Saybrook Inn parking lot, turn left into Harbor One Marina where you will park and walk to the ferry.

The return ferry trip from Plum Island to Old Saybrook will be at __TBD___ pm Eastern Standard Time.

L.7.	PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS 



I.	GENERAL:   Offerors shall submit their proposals in accordance with the following preparation

instructions. The Government will consider any failure on the part of an offeror to comply with both the letter and spirit of these instructions to be an indication of the type of conduct it can expect during contract performance.  Therefore, the Government encourages offerors to contact the Contracting Officer in writing in order to request an explanation of any aspect of these instructions.  



Introduction:  This procurement will be conducted using a multi-phase evaluation approach to identify the most highly qualified prime contractors/teams to compete for the award of the Plum Island Animal Disease Control (PIADC) Operation and Maintenance (O&M) requirements.  Only the most highly rated Offerors will be invited to submit a Phase 2 proposal and to participate in the Pre Proposal Conference and Site Visit. 

    

Phase 1: Phase 1 of the procurement will be used to evaluate each Offeror’s Key Personnel, conceptual approach to operations, relevance of experience, and a rough order of magnitude cost estimate to meet the requirements as set forth in the Statement of Work.  In Phase 1, the Offeror will provide the resume’s of the Key Personnel.  The Offeror will also provide a short conceptual solution and examples of relevant experience in performing similar efforts, and a Rough Order of Magnitude of its anticipated costs and fees for the base year and each of the option years.    Phase 1 Proposals will be evaluated as described in Section M paragraph entitled “Best Value Evaluation”.



Advisory Down-Select: Using the factors described below, the Government will evaluate the Phase 1 proposals to determine the most highly rated Offerors.  Only the most highly rated Offerors will be invited to submit a Phase 2 proposal.  Any offerors who are notified that they are not in the group of most highly rated proposals, may still participate in phase 2 and provide a full proposal, provided they submit notification, in writing to the Contracting Officer within forty-eight hours.



Phase 2: Offerors participating in Phase 2 will be provided the opportunity to attend a Pre-Proposal Conference and Site Visit of PIADC.  Submission of full Proposals will be due 3 weeks from invitation to participate.  



Full Proposal Documentation:  To assure receipt of all necessary information for evaluation purposes, and to facilitate the full evaluation of such information, the offeror must submit a full proposal.  A full proposal consists of three volumes to include (1) Technical & Management Approach (oral presentation slides & written submittals including all preliminary plans required by the SOW) (2) Past Performance Information, and (3) SF 33 and RFP, and Cost Information., as detailed in paragraphs below.



In addition to the required documentation, the offeror will be required to make an Oral Presentation.  Copies of the slides used in the oral presentation comprise one portion of the Technical and Management Approach.



Phase 2 proposals will be evaluated as described in RFP Section M paragraph entitled “Best Value Evaluation”.   



F.    Quantities of Documentation:  Proposals shall be submitted in the following quantities:







Format and Size Limitation:  Offerors’ Oral Presentation slides should document only the salient points of their oral Management & Technical Approach presentation in bullet, graph, or chart format.  A page shall be limited to a maximum of 55 to 60 lines per standard 8-1/2 x 11-inch paper.  Each volume listed in the above table should have a brief table of contents.



Place of Submission:  Proposals shall be forwarded to the following:



Rebecca Pastorella/S&T/OPO, Rm 6-010A, Mail Stop:  0210

Department of Homeland Security

245 Murray Lane, SW, Building 410

	Washington, DC  20528-0210	



Each proposal package shall be prominently marked with the following notation:



SOLICITATION NUMBER:  HSHQPD-10-R-00001



Time of Submission:  All proposal documents must be submitted so as to be received by the closing date and time per Phase, as specified on the cover of this solicitation.   



Electronic Format Instructions:  One copy of the proposal shall be in electronic format (in addition to the hard copies specified above).  The electronic format shall be Microsoft Products version 2003 or later (Office, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, etc). The electronic format data shall be submitted on quality, virus-scanned, virus-free CD, with an external label indicating (1) the name of the offeror, (2) the RFP number, (3) a list of files contained on the disk, and (4) the application/software versions used to generate the files.  In the event that data contained on the CD submitted is inconsistent with the paper copies, the paper copies will be considered to be the intended data.  Note that a secure means of submitting large electronic information, other than on CD, is currently unavailable.  



II.   PHASE I SUBMITTALS (VOLUME I):



The Phase I submittals contain (3) elements – Conceptual Solution, Relevant Experience, Key Personnel, and Rough order of Magnitude of Cost.  Each offeror responding to this solicitation shall prepare the following response in accordance with the following instructions and directions:



	a.   Factor 1: Conceptual Solution  



Offeror’s shall discuss your overall conceptual solution of the PIADC O&M requirement, the role of the PIADC within the Department of Homeland Security and approach to managing/solving the identified technical and management considerations described in the SOW.  

     b.   Factor 2: Relevant Experience



Offeror’s shall discuss your experience which is relevant to the PIADC O&M requirement in size, scope, and complexity. Include your approach to interfacing with collective bargaining organizations including conflict resolution, collective bargaining negotiations, and management approach.



        c.   Factor 3: Experience, Education, Qualifications, and Capabilities of the Offerors’ Proposed

             Key Personnel 



Offeror’s shall submit Resumes as identified below that identify each employee’s ability to meet the Experience, Education, Qualification, and Capabilities as listed in the Statement of Work, to perform at the PIADC under the subject contract. 



Program/Project Manager

Business Manager

Quality Manager



Resume Format:  The information required shall include, at the minimum, the following:



Title of Labor Category 

Name of Proposed Person

Current or Last Level of Security Clearance.  If expired or lapsed, provide date.

Education, if required; otherwise optional.



Relevant Experience.  Each resume shall set forth and provide the proposed personnel’s relevant experience.  Where experience has been derived during employment with more than one firm, the following information shall be provided as to each firm where applicable experience was acquired:



(a)     Name of company or Government agency, including title of division/department and address;

(b)     Duration of Employment;

(c)     Level and Position Held;

(d)     Description of relevant experience and responsibilities; and,

(e)     Number of employees supervised, if applicable.

(f)      Name and Address of Current Employer, if any, and position.



Resume Content:  The content of each resume submitted shall be sufficiently detailed to demonstrate that the resumed individual possesses the requisite minimum qualifications for the position for which the person is intended as set forth in the Statement of Work.



Certification:  As applicable, each resume shall contain the following certifications:



Content Certification:  Each resume shall be certified by an authorized official of the offeror that to the best of the offeror’s knowledge the content of the resume is true and correct.  Each such certified resume shall be signed and dated by the authorized representative.



Expression of Intent Certification:  If one or more proposed personnel are not current employees of the offeror, a certification of the intent of such personnel to accept employment with the offeror in the event of award is to be provided as part of the resume of such proposed personnel and signed by such person.  This certification must be signed and dated by the prospective employee.



NO RESUMES WILL BE CONSIDERED WHICH DO NOT BEAR THE ABOVE CERTIFICATIONS AS APPLICABLE.



Limitation:  No single resume shall exceed three pages in length.  For this purpose, a page is deemed to be 55 lines or less of text on a standard 8 1/2 x 11-inch sheet of paper.



Additional Information: The Government reserves the right to request additional information for verification purposes and full evaluation of any proposal submitted in response to this solicitation.

          d.   Factor: Rough Order of Magnitude  (Cost/fee)

Offeror’s shall submit a ROM of cost and fees (for the base year and each option year), broken down by major area.  

III.  PHASE 2 SUBMITTALS:  



MANAGEMENT & TECHNICAL APPROACH   (VOLUME I):



The Management & Technical Approach consists of two elements; the Oral Presentation and the Written submittal.



ORAL PRESENTATION.  Each offeror responding to this solicitation shall prepare and present orally a Management & Technical Approach response in accordance with the following instructions and directions:



	        Note:  Anticipated dates for Oral Presentations is 14-25 Jun 2010.

1.  General:  The purpose of the requirement for oral presentation of a Management & Technical Approach  is to provide the Government with all of the necessary information to comprehensively evaluate as well as to fully and fairly assess the nature and extent of the management and technical approach of the offeror to perform the required services set forth in the Performance Work Statement.   The oral presentation will enable the Government to evaluate the Offeror’s management teams’ relative knowledge and competence with regard to the Government’s requirements and program objectives, the technology, and the offeror’s understanding of the program challenges and risks.  The oral presentation shall be given by the corporate officer responsible for the project, the Program/Project Manager, the Quality Manager, and the Business/Financial Manager, each of whom shall have formally committed to the assignment at PIADC for a period of not less than one-year.



Classified Data:  No classified data or classified information of any type or nature is to be included in any portion of this presentation.



Limitations On Oral Presentation



Oral Presentations.   The oral presentation shall consist of the offeror’s presentation of their oral portion of the Management and Technical Approach,  and a Question and Answer (Q&A) session regarding the oral presentation.  The sole purpose of this oral presentation is to provide the offeror’s management and technical approach to the work that the Government will require under the resulting contract.  The oral presentation should not be a reading of the presentation slides.



b.   The oral presentation does not constitute discussions as defined by FAR 15.306 and 15.307.  Completion of oral presentations will not obligate the Government to determine a competitive range, conduct discussions, or solicit or entertain revised or Final Proposal Revisions.  Statements made by the offeror during this meeting between the Government and contractor will not become a part of any contract resulting from this RFP, unless the Government and an offeror agree to make it a part of an offer during discussions, if conducted.



c.   Schedule of Oral Presentation:  The order in which offerors will make their presentations will be determined by a drawing of lots by the Contracting Officer after receipt of the offer and written information.  The Contracting Officer will notify offerors of the scheduled date and time of their presentation within one week of the solicitation closing date.  Once notified of their scheduled presentation date and time, offerors shall complete their presentations on the date and time assigned.  Offeror requests to reschedule will not be entertained.  

d.   Offeror Employee Participation:  A maximum of five (5) contractor personnel shall attend and give the oral presentation.  As discussed in section 1 above, the personnel presenting should be the actual personnel who would be responsible for contract management and/or performance in the event the proposal results in award.  NO professional presenters will be allowed.

Limitation of presentation time:  The Oral Presentation will last a maximum of 3 1/2 hours, with two scheduled 15-minute breaks.    Following completion of the presentation, there will be a 2-hour break during which the Government will prepare questions resulting from the oral presentation.  This 2-hour break also accounts for the lunch break.  The Q&A session will take place after lunch and last a maximum of 30 minutes.  The contractor will be required to answer all of the questions posed by the Government during the Q&A sessions.  Neither the introductions of personnel nor the Government-scheduled breaks will count against the presentation time.



Limitation of presentation media: Only those presentation slides for which copies were provided with the original offer shall be used in the oral presentation.  NO deviation from the originally submitted copies will be allowed.  The offeror is limited by a maximum of 100 slides for the presentation. Only the information that is presented orally is that which will be evaluated.  Information contained on slides, but not presented or discussed during the oral presentation, will not be evaluated.  No animation, moving characters, or audio clips are allowed as part of your slides presentation.



Presentation material: Offerors are advised that the Government will not provide equipment other than a conventional overhead projector for use during the presentation.  The Government will, upon request, provide a projection devise for computer-based presentations.  Due to the complexities of connectivity and compatibility, the Government will not be responsible for ensuring compatibility with the offeror’s presentation hardware and software.  Therefore, offerors are strongly encouraged to provide their own projection devices if computer generated presentations are contemplated.



The Government will videotape the presentations for reference during the evaluation phase, and establishing support for the award decision.



NO price or cost information shall be included in the presentation narrative or supporting slides/ screens.



Instructions For Oral Presentation.  



The oral presentation shall cover your understanding of the requirements and your proposed Management and technical approach of attaining contract objectives.  Technical content shall be structured to follow the guidelines listed herein.  



Technical information shall be prepared in such a manner as to enable Government personnel with general training to make a thorough and complete evaluation and arrive at a sound determination as to whether or not the service proposed and described will satisfy the requirements of the Government.  



To facilitate the evaluation, the oral presentation should be sufficiently detailed and complete to clearly demonstrate that the prospective offeror has a thorough understanding of the requirements and the management and technical problems inherent therein, and has a valid and practical solution for each contemplated problem.  It should also contain sufficient detail to indicate the proposed means for complying with all applicable specifications and shall include a complete explanation of the techniques and procedures to be exercised.  



Data previously submitted will not be considered; therefore, such data should not be relied upon nor incorporated in the oral presentation by reference.  Statements that the prospective offeror understands and can or will comply with all specifications, statements paraphrasing the specifications or parts thereof, and phrases such as "standard procedures will be employed" or "well known techniques will be used," etc., will be considered insufficient and unacceptable.  Repeated inquiries regarding the technical requirements may be considered as an indication that the offeror does not comprehend the requirements for accomplishing the work.



The oral presentation should outline the proposed contract objectives as you interpret them, the management and technical approach to the problem, any interpretations, deviations, or exceptions to the Statement of Work, and any other topics you deem pertinent to the problem.



The Oral Presentation shall address the following sections, which correspond to the evaluation of the factors of the Management and Technical Approach as follows:



Factor 1 -  Management and Technical Approach (MTA)



Subfactor 1 – Management



MTA1-1   Discuss your Program Project Plan, the description of work to be accomplished ,and 

an outline of methods by which you propose to accomplish work including a Work breakdown Structure(WBS) down to a minimum of level 4, including management concepts, plans, metrics, and approach to project management.

MTA1-2.  Discuss your operating approach for decision making, recognition of potential problems, problem area.

MTA1-3   Identify your teammates/major subcontractors, and associations with corporate or division organizations.

MTA1-4   Discuss your communication methods of resolving ambiguities, concerns, and conflicts that become apparent during the performance of this contract.

MTA1-5  Discuss any innovations to streamline and improve efficiency and/or productivity.

MTA1-6  Discuss your approach to providing quality services in the fulfillment of the requirements, including product and quality assurance techniques and timely problem resolution. 

MTA1-7  Discuss your approach to incorporate the tasks, deliverables, and schedule required to implement the Offeror’s solution. 

MTA1-8  Discuss your organization and integration of tasks. 

MTA1-9	Discuss your preliminary Quality Management program.

MTA1-10 Discuss your overall project management approach to define, manage, and monitor the cost, schedule, and quality of work performed, including changing conditions and priorities and earned value as a core measurement/management tool.   



Subfactor 2 - Contract Phase-In 



MTA2-1 Discuss your phase-in approach to support PIADC operations.  Include skill mix, capabilities, and staffing levels for the phase-in team. 

MTA2-2 Discuss your plan to assume full contractual responsibility.

MTA2-3 Discuss your phase-in performance milestone plan that includes a hiring schedule for all staffing requirements for the contract phase-in period.



Subfactor 3 - Customer Service

   

MTA3-1 Discuss your approach to customer service to meet customer needs, concerns, and satisfaction.

MTA3-2 Discuss your approach to work controls, configuration management, efficiency, ability to accommodate fluctuations of workload, and capability for rapid reaction to changes in priority assignments. 

MTA3-3 Discuss your approach to feedback in a multi-customer environment.   



Subfactor 4 - Safety, Health, and Environment 



MTA4-1   Discuss your approach to implemention, integration, and leadership of your Safety, Health, and Environmental Management Program into the PIADC site-wide management procedures.  

MTA4-2  Discuss your policies, procedures, and processes, as defined in your preliminary Safety and Health Plan in accordance with the 29 CFR 2910 and AIHA/ANSI-Z-10 and your preliminary Environmental Management Plan in accordance with ISO 14001.



Subfactor 5 - Risk Analysis and Mitigation



MTA5-1  Discuss the assessment of risk inherent in your approach in this factor, and your plan to mitigate those risks.



Factor 2: Staffing and Total Compensation (STC)

	Subfactor 1 - Staffing and Skill Levels



Provide a brief description and flow chart of the firm’s organizational structure, including the corporate chain and corporate point of contact (including position, responsibility, and authority).  Describe briefly the firm’s functional structure under which the contract would be managed or administered, if the firm were awarded the contract, to include rationale for proposed organization structure and levels of supervision, sources of administrative support, and lines of communication inside and outside the firm.  Please include the role of subcontractors in performance of the contract and the role of each party in any team agreements.

STC1-1 Discuss your approach including rationale for determining optimum skill mix and staffing levels for all WBS elements.

STC1-2 Discuss your methodology for ensuring and maintaining a consistent application of appropriate labor classifications in all SOW elements throughout the life of the contract.

STC1-3 Discuss your ability to recruit and retain personnel to fill key positions including management, administrative, technical and manufacturing support functions, including the method of recruitment.

STC1-4  Discuss your sources of staffing.

STC1-5 Discuss your approach to ensuring personnel qualifications and certifications necessary to meet requirements of the SOW as defined in your preliminary training and qualifications program plan.



Subfactor 2 - Rationale/Qualifications of Key Personnel 



STC2-1 Discuss your quantity and mix of key personnel positions and how it reflex’s on your understanding of the SOW requirements. 

STC2-2 Discuss your rationale for your organizational structure of key personnel. 

STC2-3 Discuss key personnel’s commitment to this contract. 

STC2-4 Discuss the replacement/transition plan covering the departure of any key personnel during the course of this contract , including proposed transition period, proposed transition/replacement approach, and proposed strategy to limit the impact to the Government.



Subfactor 3 - Compensation Plan  (Reference FAR Clause 52.222-46)



STC3-1 Discuss your total compensation plan (including teammates/major subcontractors) and personnel policies.

STC3-2 Discuss your fringe benefits package.

STC3-3 Discuss your approach to defining workforce seniority practices and policies.  

STC3-4 Discuss your approach to handling the potential impact of different compensation structures where services provided by major subcontractors are similar to those provided by your company.



	Subfactor 4 - Flexibility to Address Varying Demands 

STC4-1 Discuss your approach to workforce adjustments resulting from an increase or decrease in workload or scope.

STC4-2 Discuss any innovations to staffing including its approach to cross-train and cross-utilize personnel.

STC4-3 Discuss your approach to leveraging existing resources as workload shifts between various sections of the SOW.



Subfactor 5 - Risk Analysis and Mitigation



STC5-1 Discuss your assessment of risk inherent in its approach for this factor and the plan to mitigate those risks.



B.	TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH WRITTEN SUBMITTALS

The Written Submittals shall address the following sections, which correspond to the evaluation of the factors of the Management and Technical Approach as follows:	

	

Personnel Resumes:  Offerors shall submit Resumes for all Key Personnel, including direct reports that identify each employee’s ability to meet the qualifications listed in the Statement of Work.  



Resumes should include education and training of the individuals, and applicability of the listed work experience to each of the task areas included in the Statement of Work.  The resumes must specify which RFP labor category the individual is intended to fill.  



Offerors shall identify the applicable SCA labor categories by Dept. of Labor number and title.  For those employees for whom Resumes are not required, the offeror shall briefly discuss how the proposed employees meet the minimum experience requirements.  



Resumes will be formatted as identified above in phase 1 submittals above.



Preliminary Plans: Offerors shall submit a draft copy of their proposed preliminary plans that defines and meets the requirements of the applicable and adopted standards deemed appropriate by the contractor.



Preliminary Plans:

			Quality Management Plan

			Project Plan

			Staffing plan

			Safety and Health Plan

			Environmental Mgmt Plan





III.  	PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION (VOLUME II)



The offeror shall demonstrate relevant past performance through completion of the attached “Contractor Performance Data Sheet” (Attachment __).   The Contractor Performance Data Sheet(s) shall be completed in its entirety.  Data submitted by the offeror other than that requested on the Contractor Performance Data Sheet will not be considered.  Additionally, offerors are urged to submit brief and concise responses.  Failure to submit the completed Contractor Performance Data Sheets shall be considered certification (by signature on the proposal) that the contractor has no past performance for like or similar items for the Government to evaluate.



Both offerors, and subcontractors performing more than 20% of the total estimated Effort for any contract year (or contract period), are required to provide Contractor Performance Data Sheets on no more than five of the firm’s current, or most recently completed Federal Government contracts (not to exceed three years since completion) for like or similar services to those to be provided under this RFP. Each Contract Performance Data Sheet submitted will not exceed 5 pages total.   For this purpose, a page is deemed to be 55 lines or less of text on a standard 8 ½ x 11-inch sheet of paper.  



Offerors may submit performance data regarding current contract performance as long as a minimum of one year of performance has been completed as of the closing date of this RFP.  If the contractor does not have five Federal Government contracts to reference, then list state, local, or commercial contracts, in that order, to complete this report.  



	If the offeror does not have a sufficient number of past contracts to provide the requested information, the offeror’s past performance will still be evaluated.  If the offeror is a new company, or has just entered the area of operation and maintenance services, it is probable that the offeror has either key management and/or technical/scientific personnel intended to be utilized under this contract effort, which have some relevant experience or past performance history on relevant work.  If the offeror lacks past performance information on Government or commercial contracts, then the offeror must provide a list of references where key personnel for the proposed effort worked on similar contracts.  An evaluation of the performance of the offeror’s key personnel on relevant contracts can be used, as appropriate, as part or all of the past performance evaluation.  



	Offerors with no available corporate past performance are encouraged to provide relevant information regarding past performance of predecessor companies, key personnel, or subcontractors performing major or critical aspects of the task requirements.



	As part of the Contractor Performance Data Sheets (CPDS), the offeror shall complete separate narrative discussions, on their past application of the following, if applicable:   

Use of Small Business.  Offerors shall submit information, on the identified contract on the CPDS that they have had a Small Business Utilization Plan and your success in implementing the plan to include percentages used in each of the following small business categories – Small Business (SB) , Veteran-owned Small Business (VET), Disabled-Veteran Small Business (SDV), Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small Business (HUBZone), Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB), and Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB). 



Management.  Offerors shall submit information on performance in management with emphasis on and commitment to safety, health, and environment including corrective actions taken. 



Collective Bargaining Agreements:  Offerors shall submit information on performance in working with collective bargaining agreements, settling disputes and/or strike mitigation.



 Phase-In:  Offerors shall submit information in managing contract phase-in to include examples of successful and unsuccessful assumption of full-contract responsibilities within a similar environment which involved transition of facility services; operations and maintenance; software systems conversion; support to multiple customers; etc. without disruption of on-going manufacturing operations.

	

The Government reserves the right to require additional past performance information from other subcontractors that may be deemed critical by the Government, and from entities that will substantially contribute to the proposed contract, or have the potential to significantly impact performance of the proposed contract.  Note that an “entity” is defined as an organization such as a division or branch of a corporation, or a parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the corporation.



IV.	RFP AND COST PROPOSAL (VOLUME III)



RFP: Offerors are required to submit an original and two copies of the RFP, which shall be included in the volume III binder.  The RFP must be signed, dated, and fully completed, including Section B pricing and all Section K certifications/representations.  Amendment(s) (if issued) must be both signed and dated or acknowledged in block 14 of the SF 33.



	COST PROPOSAL: Since adequate price competition is anticipated in response to this solicitation, certified cost or pricing data is not required at this time.  However, other than cost and pricing data information is required to ascertain that proposed prices are reasonable and commensurate with the management and technical approach.  Proposals should include the following:  



Name, Title and Telephone of Offeror's Point of Contact

Mandatory Breakout Forms (See Attachment __)

Supporting rationale for price elements described in paragraphs 1. through 17. below



PREPARATION OF COST PROPOSAL.  Your proposal shall include the following cost information:



1.   Accounting System.  Your accounting system must be susceptible to a Government audit. 

      Identify the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), which has cognizance over your 

      company, and the date and number if applicable of the last audit performed by DCAA.



Mandatory Cost Breakout Forms.  You are required to complete a Mandatory Cost Breakout

Form (see Attachment __) for each period of the contract,  utilizing the number of man-hours identified per labor category for each year.



Subcontractors.  If you are proposing to use any subcontractors, you are required to allocate the specified man-hours for each labor category and not-to-exceed "other direct costs" between the prime and each subcontractor.  Each subcontractor is required to complete a Mandatory Cost Breakout Form based on the allocated share for each LOT along with the supporting documentation listed below.  Unless the contractor specifically proposes fee and/or burden on subcontractor hours in the proposal, you will be prohibited from proposing fee and/or burden on subcontractor hours after award and during task order negotiations.



Estimated Quantities.  The quantities of work hours of labor for each labor category, are on the entire level of effort for the base and option years.



Direct Labor.  You are required to provide the following information to support the direct labor rates you propose on the Mandatory Cost Breakout Form:



The number of man-hours per labor category you propose to utilize.



The unloaded labor rate proposed per labor category.



For non-exempt labor categories, covered by the Service Contract Act ONLY (see Performance work statement paragraph C.5.5), offerors are discouraged from proposing escalation for option periods as part of their cost proposal.



If a composite labor rate is utilized, provide the specific details/calculations used to arrive at the composite rate (see paragraph in Section L entitled "Labor Rate Methodology").



If a labor rate is prorated over fiscal years, provide specific details/calculations used to determine the labor rate.



If uncompensated overtime is proposed, provide the information required in Section L, FAR provision 52.237-10 entitled "Identification of Uncompensated Overtime" for each labor category.  



Provide current company-wide averages for each labor category (see paragraph in Section L entitled "Labor Rate Methodology").



If uncompensated overtime is proposed, provide historical company-wide percentage of uncompensated overtime for each labor category.



Provide actual hourly rate for resumed personnel based on a 40-hour week.



If resumed personnel will be working uncompensated overtime, provide historical number of hours in excess of 40 hours per week.



Labor Category Titles.  It is recognized that some of the labor category titles identified in the RFP may not exactly match the title normally used in a particular company operation.  Accordingly, in order to permit a rapid comparison between the labor team proposed in response to the RFP and the offeror's actual labor mix, each proposal must provide the following:



The offeror's normally used nomenclature for each labor category identified in the Mandatory Cost Breakout Form.



A copy of the offeror's own position description for each labor category.



Staffing Plan.  Provide a staffing plan (consistent with your technical proposal) indicating which levels of employees will charge their time in overhead or G&A, and which will charge time as a direct cost.  The offeror is required to identify all direct-charge personnel and hours and  include them in the Mandatory Cost Breakout Form level of effort.  The contractor will not be paid for any direct-charge personnel not identified in the cost proposal.



Overhead (Burden).  It is anticipated that the estimated cost for the proposed contract may be computed on the basis of an overhead rate established specifically for this operation.  In view of the nature of the work, the direct labor may not be subjected to indirect costs of the same magnitude as that performed within a company's facility, or at other locations.  The overhead rate established should contain all provisions for payroll taxes, compensation, and unemployment insurance, and/or related fringe benefits, holiday, vacation, and sick leave pay, rent depreciation, utilities and all other indirect costs, other than G&A expense related to the performance of the work.  In computing your overhead rate, consideration should be given to projected increases in payroll taxes and related payroll burdens.  Provide the following information in your cost proposal:



Identify overhead (burden) rate and its basis; i.e., a company-wide average rate or a specifically developed (for this contract) rate with supporting rationale.



Identify cost elements comprising the overhead rate.



Furnish an explanation of the offeror's "company policy" on the accumulation of costs for vacations, sick leave and holidays, which must be both feasible and reasonable.



Identify whether or not bonuses are given to employees; and if so, where such costs are included in the contractor's accounting system as approved by the cognizant DCAA.  State if bonuses are included in an indirect cost pool or as part of the unloaded labor rate.



Include a total compensation plan in accordance with Section L FAR provision 52.222-46 entitled "Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees" setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for the professional employees who will work under the contract.



General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses.  Due to the nature of the proposed contract, your company may elect to establish a special G&A expense pool for allocation of cost to the proposed contract.  Provide the following information in your cost proposal:



Identify the G&A rate and its basis; i.e., a company-wide average rate or a specifically developed (for this contract) rate with supporting rationale.



Identify cost elements/pools comprising the G&A rate.



Compare proposed rate with the rate experienced during the prior two fiscal or calendar years and with the current book rate experience.



State whether the company anticipates any appreciable change in the business volume, other than the effect of the proposed contract, which would materially affect the G&A expense rate.



Provide information as to how the rate compares with that applicable to other company operations.



Other Direct Costs.  Include any costs which will be charged as other direct costs, which are not identified on the Mandatory Cost Breakout Form, but which the company will directly charge in accordance with their accounting system.  Those elements of cost, which are not identified by the offeror as a direct cost, shall not be reimbursed during contract performance.



Identify cost element for any other "other direct costs."



Estimate cost of each "other direct cost" element for each LOT, and provide supporting documentation/rationale.



Travel and Material.  Your cost proposal should include any travel and material required. Travel expenses must be proposed in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulation (see paragraph in Section C entitled "Reimbursement for Transportation and Travel Costs").      Whatever costs are proposed to be applied to these estimates must be consistent with your cost accounting practices and be added to the estimated costs of your proposal so that it can be separately identified and evaluated.



Facilities Capital Cost of Money.  If facilities capital cost of money is proposed, the contractor is required to complete and provide a DD Form 1861 for the Base Year and each Option Year of the contract.



Phase-In.  CLIN 0001AA.  This element of cost should detail all costs associated with the phase-in plan set forth in your technical proposal.



Contractor Facility.  If the Contractor intends to establish a new office in support of the contract, the anticipated cost shall be separately identified in the cost proposal.  The costs shall be identified in appropriate direct and/or indirect cost categories.  The requirement for maintaining a facility shall not be construed to mean that the Government will be obligated to pay any costs in connection with establishing a facility; and further, the Contractor shall not be entitled to any payment in connection with any personnel kept in readiness at, or brought to, such a facility in preparation for or in expectation of future issuance of a work item.  Payment may only be made for costs actually expended in performance of specific work items.



Taxes, Insurance.  Identify the proposed rates/percentages associated with the following taxes and insurances:

Social Security and Medicare (FICA)

State Unemployment Tax (SUTA)

Federal Unemployment Tax (FUTA)

Worker's Compensation

Liability Insurance 

B&O Tax (state and local)

Business License (state and local)

Other applicable taxes and insurance

Use Tax, if applicable



Show calculations on how the individual rates/percentages listed above were incorporated into the proposed indirect cost rates.  Provide a certificate from the State to confirm the proposed tax rates.  Provide documentation from your insurance companies and bonding agent displaying the actual premiums/cost to obtain the required insurance and bond.  





Evidence of Financial Capability.   Provide information regarding the general financial condition of the offeror’s organization.  Include the last three complete fiscal year financial statements (include as a minimum, balance sheet and statement of profit and loss) of the individual, firm, or corporation, certified by a reputable independent accounting firm, if practicable, or at least by an authorized officer of the organization.  In addition, submit evidence of availability of operating capital, which will be used for the performance of the resultant contract.



NOTE:  Offerors are cautioned to completely identify all costs that are known or should be known to the offeror.  Also, bring to the Contracting Officer's attention any direct costs not anticipated in the specifications, which will apply to all offerors so an amendment can be issued.  If it is discovered after award that the successful offeror is incurring significant amounts of unevaluated costs, the Government reserves the right to take one or more of the following actions:



A solicitation for a follow-on contract will be issued immediately.

Option years will not be exercised.

The contractor's apparent inability to identify potential costs or to control costs, or its

       possible lack of good faith, will be considered in future evaluations of its 

       technical/cost proposals for follow-on contracts or other competitive efforts.

The costs will be disallowed.



D.  CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:  In accordance with FAR clause entitled "52.228-5 Insurance - Work on a Government Installation, and HSAR clause 3052.228-70    INSURANCE (DEC 2003)  the Contractor shall furnish a Certificate of Insurance with its offer to indicate compliance with insurance requirements. 

E.  CONTINGENCY PLAN: The contractor shall submit a contingency plan in accordance with paragraph entitiled “H.7.  Continuity of Critical Contractor Deliverables [Services and/or Supplies] in the Event of an Emergency (Oct 2009)”.

 



The following paragraph is applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS:



L.8.	LABOR RATE METHODOLOGY



1.	The direct labor rates proposed by the Offeror for each labor category should be those rates applicable to the personnel offered by the company in its Technical Proposal as reflected in the submitted resumes.



2.	Offerors are normally expected to propose resumes which are representative of the average labor rates paid by category of labor.  Average labor rates are normally expected to be proposed for those categories of labor for which no resumes have been required.  Offerors shall provide appropriate explanation(s) if:

	a.	The Offeror proposes labor rates higher or lower than the company average labor  rate(s).

	b.	The Offeror proposes labor rates higher or lower than the average labor  rate(s) reflected by the specific resumes submitted by category of labor.



3.	The Government will normally evaluate cost on the basis of the labor rates paid to the persons specified by resume in the technical proposal.  For example:





	*  All labor categories or personnel must meet all minimum qualifications as set forth in Section C.

	**Proposed by the Offeror. 


Section M - Evaluation Factors for Award 





CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



 

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT



The following paragraph is applicable to all CLINS:



M.1.	BEST VALUE EVALUATION 



I.   GENERAL INFORMATION



The contract resulting from this solicitation will be awarded to that responsible offeror whose offer, conforming to the solicitation, is determined most advantageous to the Government, cost/price and other factors considered.  The Government intends to award a contract on the basis of initial offers received, without discussions.  Therefore, each initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint.  However, if considered necessary by the Contracting Officer, discussions will be conducted with only those offerors determined to have a reasonable chance for award.



The offeror's proposal shall be submitted in the form prescribed in section L, and shall contain a response to each of the areas identified in the Section L solicitation provision entitled “Proposal Submission Requirements”.   



In determining best value, the Government will evaluate potential discriminators.  Discriminators are defined as those aspects of an offeror’s technical performance plan that positively affect performance through innovative techniques, productivity enhancements, and/or more efficient methods for which the Government is willing to pay a price premium.  The Government reserves the right to select other than the lowest priced offeror if the Contracting Officer determines that to do so would result in the best value to the Government.    



Potential risk to the Government will be evaluated.  Technical and Performance risk, based upon the Management and Technical Approach and Past Performance evaluations, will be considered, along with any associated cost risk.



Subjective judgment on the part of the Government evaluators is implicit in the entire process throughout the evaluation of the technical performance plan and past performance. 



II.  EVALUATION FACTORS

Multi-Phase Evaluation Approach

The procurement will be conducted using a multi-phase evaluation approach to identify the most highly qualified prime contractors/teams to compete for the award of the full PIADC Operations and Maintenance requirements.  The most highly rated Offerors will be invited to submit a Phase 2 proposal and to participate in the Pre-Proposal Conference and site visit prior to final proposal submittal.  

Contract award will be made to the Offeror whose proposal represents the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered.

A.         Phase 1.  The Government will use the following equally important factors to determine the most highly rated Offerors in Phase 1: 

 

Non-Price Factors: 

	Factor 1: Conceptual Solution

	Factor 2: Relevant Experience 

Factor 3: Experience, Education, Qualifications, and Capabilities of the Offerors’ Proposed Key Personnel



 Program/Project Manager

Business Manager

Quality Manager





Price Factor: Rough Order of Magnitude Price for Base Year and Option Year Requirements



B.          Phase 2.  The Government will award a contract to the responsible Offeror whose proposal is the most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.   The factors are in descending order of importance.   Management and Technical Approach, Staffing and Total Compensation, and Past Performance when combined are significantly more important than Cost/Price.



The subfactors within each factor are of equal importance. The individual subsections within each supporting subfactor are descriptions of what will be evaluated under the subfactor as a whole and shall not be construed as an indication of order of importance or relative weighting within the individual subfactor as there are no discrete ratings attached to any of the subsections.   



The Phase 2 selection decision will be based on the following factors:  



Volume I - Management and Technical Approach  



	Factor 1 - Management and Technical Approach  (Subfactors are of equal importance)

Subfactor MTA1	Management

Subfactor MTA2	Contract Phase-In
Subfactor MTA3	Customer Service 

Subfactor MTA4	Safety, Health, and Environment

Subfactor MTA5	Risk Analysis and Mitigation



Factor 2 - Staffing and Total Compensation  (Subfactors are of equal importance)

Subfactor STC1	Staffing and Skill Levels
Subfactor STC2	Rationale/Qualifications of Key Personnel

Subfactor STC3	Compensation Plan

Subfactor STC4 	Flexibility to Address Varying Demands

Subfactor STC5	Risk Analysis and Mitigation



Volume II - Past Performance 



Factor 3 – Past Performance 



Volume III – Cost/Fee



 	Factor 4 – Cost/Fee 





III.    PHASE I EVALUATION



Non-Price Factor 1: Conceptual Solution  



The Government will use the Offeror’s written proposal to evaluate the extent to which the conceptual solution addresses the objectives, requirements and methods for overcoming the challenges of the PIADC O&M requirement.  The extent to which the Offeror understands the role of the PIADC within the Department of Homeland Security will also be evaluated.  The Government will also evaluate the quality and feasibility of the Offeror’s approaches to managing/solving the identified technical and management considerations described in the SOW.  

Non-Price Factor 2: Relevant Experience



The Government will evaluate the information provided to determine the extent to which the Contractor has demonstrated experience which is relevant to the PIADC O&M requirement in size, scope, and complexity.   In addition the following specific information will be evaluated:

The Offeror’s approach to interfacing with collective bargaining organizations including:

Employee access to human resource personnel for conflict resolution  

Approach to collective bargaining negotiations  

Required level of experience of the labor relations position(s), level of autonomy to resolve day-to-day issues, and the placement of the position(s) within the organization structure  

Approach to managing the potential for and consequences of labor actions (e.g. strike)  



Non-Price Factor 3: Experience, Education, Qualifications, and Capabilities of the  Offerors’ Proposed Program/Project Manager, Business Manager, and Quality Manager



The Government will evaluate the experience, education, qualifications, and capabilities of the offerors’ proposed Program/Project Manager,  Quality Manager, and Business Manager for the subject acquisition and determined the degree to which these proposed candidates have the necessary qualifications including having had personal responsibility and demonstrated success for managing the range of functions they would be required to perform at the PIADC under the subject contract. 



Price Factor: Rough Order of Magnitude 

The Government will evaluate the Offeror’s ROM prices (for the base year and each option year)  to determine their reasonableness for the conceptual solution proposed.  

IV.  PHASE 2 EVALUATION  



Factor 1:  MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL APPROACH (MTA) 



This factor will be used to evaluate the Offeror’s management, technical and operational approach for providing the services delineated in the PWS.  Under this factor the effectiveness, feasibility, realism, responsiveness, innovation, competency, completeness, clarity, and the overall capability and likelihood of success of the Management and Technical Approach will be evaluated.  



Subfactor   	MTA1	Management

MTA1-1 The Offeror’s description of work to be accomplished and an outline of methods by which the contractor proposes to accomplish work including a WBS down to a minimum of level 4, including management concepts, plans, metrics, and approach to project management 

MTA1-2 The Offeror’s procedures and features of their operating approach which defines decision making and provides early recognition of potential problems, problem areas, and allows for proactive problem avoidance and solutions.

MTA1-3 The Offeror’s descriptions of teammates/major subcontractors, and associations with corporate or division organizations including:

Decision-making relationships between the local PIADC organization and the parent organization(s)

Internal and external lines of authority 

Approach to management and integration of user(s)/tenant(s) requirements 

Local autonomy granted to the Offeror’s PIADC Site Executive Manager

MTA1-4 The Offeror’s proposed communication methods of resolving ambiguities, concerns, and conflicts that become apparent during the performance of this contract

Internal within Offeror’s organization

Internal with teammates and/or subcontractors

External with customer (PIADC)

MTA1-5 The Offeror’s innovations to streamline and improve efficiency and/or productivity will be assessed for realism and appropriateness.

MTA1-6 The Offeror’s approach to providing accurate, timely, and responsive quality services in the fulfillment of the requirements, including product and quality assurance techniques and timely problem resolution 

MTA1-7 The extent to which the Offeror’s approach effectively incorporates the tasks, deliverables, and schedule required to implement the Offeror’s solution. 

MTA1-8 The extent to which the Offeror’s proposal incorporates a logical and effective organization and integration of tasks to facilitate successful fulfillment of objectives while mitigating risk.

MTA1-9	The extent to which the Offeror’s preliminary Quality Management program plan reflects an understanding of the requirements of this SOW. 

MTA1-10 The offers overall project management approach to define, manage, and monitor the cost, schedule, and quality of work performed, including the ability to plan and manage to changing conditions and priorities and regular and systematic use of earned value as a core measurement/management tool.   



Subfactor	MTA2	Contract Phase-In 



MTA2-1 The Offeror’s phase-in approach for effectiveness and efficiency in achieving smooth, seamless, and successful transition of personnel, resources and continuity of services, with emphasis on support to PIADC (Including skill mix, capabilities, and staffing levels for the Offeror’s phase-in team) to commence within a period of no later than two weeks ,from contract award and be completed within a maximum of 60 days from initiation. 

MTA2-2 The Offeror’s demonstrated ability to assume full contractual responsibility

MTA2-3 The Offeror’s phase-in performance milestone plan necessary to meet assumption of full contract responsibilities including a portrayal of the hiring schedule for all staffing requirements for the contract phase-in period



Subfactor	MTA3	Customer Service

   

MTA3-1 The Offeror’s approach to customer service including the mechanism or features of their work control system and its responsiveness to meeting customer needs, concerns, and satisfaction

MTA3-2 The Offeror’s approach to work controls, configuration management, efficiency, ability to accommodate fluctuations of workload, and capability for rapid reaction to changes in priority assignments 

MTA3-3 The Offeror’s approach for interactively receiving and responding to user(s)/tenant(s) feedback in a multi-customer environment   



Subfactor	MTA4	 Safety, Health, and Environment 



MTA4-1 The Offeror’s approach to implemention, integration, and leadership of its Safety, Health, and Environmental Management Program into the PIADC site-wide management procedures  

MTA4-2 The Offeror’s policies, procedures, and processes, as defined in the preliminary Safety and Health Plan in accordance with the 29 CFR 2910 and AIHA/ANSI-Z-10 and its preliminary Environmental Management Plan in accordance with ISO 14001.



Subfactor	MTA5	Risk Analysis and Mitigation



MTA5-1 The Offerors assessment of risk inherent in its approach for this subfactor and the plan to mitigate those risks.





Factor 2: STAFFING AND TOTAL COMPENSATION (STC)

This factor will be used to evaluate the Offeror’s approach for providing the staffing to perform the requirements of the SOW.  The Offeror’s plan to accomplish each section of the SOW will be evaluated on content pertaining to flexibility to address varying demands (changes in volume of work and types of work), use of qualified/skilled personnel, and ability to recruit specialized skills.  Under this factor the adequacy, competency, flexibility, competitiveness, stability, and the overall qualifications of the Staffing and Total Compensation within the Offeror’s Management and Technical Volume will be evaluated.  

Subfactor	STC1	 Staffing and Skill Levels



STC1-1 The Offeror’s approach including rationale for determining optimum skill mix and staffing levels for all WBS elements

STC1-2 The Offeror’s methodology for ensuring and maintaining a consistent application of appropriate labor classifications in all SOW elements throughout the life of the contract

STC1-3 The Offeror’s ability to recruit and retain personnel to fill key positions including management, administrative, technical and manufacturing support functions, including the method of recruitment 

STC1-4 The Offeror’s sources of staffing

STC1-5 The Offeror’s approach to ensuring personnel qualifications and certifications necessary to meet requirements of the SOW as defined in their preliminary training and qualifications program plan  .





Subfactor	STC2	Rationale/Qualifications of Key Personnel 



STC2-1 The Offeror’s quantity and mix of key personnel positions and how this reflects the Offeror’s understanding of the SOW requirements 

STC2-2 The Offeror’s rationale for their organizational structure and for selecting individuals designated as key personnel including education, experience, past performance in relevant positions and other qualifications for the proposed position

STC2-3 The Offeror’s demonstration of key personnel commitment to this contract 

STC2-4 The Offeror’s replacement/transition plan covering the departure of any key personnel during the course of this contract with emphasis on proposed transition period, proposed transition/replacement approach, and proposed strategy to limit the impact to the Government



Subfactor	STC3	Compensation Plan (Reference FAR Clause 52.222-46)



STC3-1 The Offeror’s total compensation plan (including teammates/major subcontractors) and personnel policies

STC3-2 The Offeror’s fringe benefits, including: 

health care plans, handling of pre-existing health conditions, and company portion of the premiums

retirement/savings plans, including types, company matching and vesting of company contributions

paid time-off policies, including vacation, sick leave, holidays, 

payment policies regarding severance pay, overtime pay, holiday pay and any other premium pay anticipated

uncompensated overtime policy 

portability of benefits

STC3-3 The Offeror’s approach to defining workforce seniority practices and policies  

STC3-4 The Offeror’s approach to handling the potential impact of different compensation structures where services provided by major subcontractors are similar to those provided by the Offeror



Subfactor	STC4	Flexibility to Address Varying Demands 

STC4-1 The Offeror’s approach to workforce adjustments resulting from an increase or decrease in workload or scope

STC4-2 The Offeror’s innovations to staffing including its approach to cross-train and 	cross-utilize personnel

STC4-3 The Offeror’s approach to leveraging existing resources as workload shifts between various sections of the SOW. 



Subfactor	STC5	Risk Analysis and Mitigation



STC5-1 The Offerors assessment of risk inherent in its approach for this subfactor and the plan to mitigate those risks.	

FACTOR 3 - PAST PERFORMANCE FACTOR (VOLUME II)

Past Performance evaluation will primarily be based upon the information provided on the Contract Performance Data Sheets for similar contracts identified over the last 3 years, and the narrative response on use of small business, management, collective bargaining agreement, and phase-in.  



Government evaluators may avail themselves of various federal, state, and local past performance databases including, but not limited to,  , Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), and Defense Logistic Agency’s (DLA’s) Mechanization of Contract Administration Services (MOCAS) system.  The Government may research offeror performance on any federal, state, local, and commercial contract performance of the offeror that is known to the Government, but not included on a submitted “Contractor Performance Data Sheet."  Additionally, the personal experience and evaluator knowledge of offeror performance may be utilized.



The Government will consider the relevance of past performance information obtained in relation to the scope of this procurement.  Past performance, either positive or negative, which is considered by the Government to be more closely related to the scope of this effort will be given additional weight in the evaluation process.



Offerors with past performance data will be evaluated in the same manner as all other evaluation factors; however, those offerors with no past performance data will neither be evaluated favorably nor unfavorably.  Therefore, offerors will receive credit for good past performance, lose credit for poor past performance, and neither receive nor lose credit for no relevant past performance.



The evaluation of Past Performance will be conducted in accordance with the FAR 15.305(a)(2).  The Offeror’s and major subcontractors overall past performance on contracts of similar size, content, complexity, and relevance  to the PIADC effort as well as the quality of the Offeror’s past performance will be evaluated.  The Government is seeking to determine whether the Offeror has experience, demonstrated performance, and the proven current technical expertise that will enable the Offeror to consistently deliver high quality and timely services and work products. 



In evaluating past performance, the Government will take into consideration the relevance of experience and past performance quality in the following areas:



 Problem Solving: The Government will evaluate the Offeror’s response to past problems including corrective actions taken.  The past performance evaluation will be based on information provided by the Offeror in their proposal, completed past performance questionnaires, and any other information obtained independently by the Government’s evaluation team. Past performance will not be  numerically weighted or scored.



Relevance of Experience: The Offeror’s experience will be evaluated on the degree of relevance to the requirements of the solicitation on the basis of similarity in size, complexity, technical difficulty, contract type, and period of performance. Experience must be recent (within 5 years) to be relevant. Evaluations may include interviews with previous clients of the Offeror and team members and/or subcontractors and may include interviews with previous clients of proposed key personnel.



Quality: The quality of the Offeror’s past performance will be evaluated on the basis of information contained in the Offeror’s proposal and the information that the Government obtains through reference checks and other means. The past performance evaluation will assess the Offeror;s record of providing high quality services and products of a similar nature in a manner that ensures maximal quality, cost effectiveness and overall client satisfaction.



Management:  Past performance in management with emphasis on and commitment to safety, health,and environment including corrective actions taken.  The Offeror’s and major subcontractors safety and health performance, along with OSHA Form 300A Summary of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses for comparable contracts, and records of OSHA and EPA citations for the last three years of performance will be considered.  



Collective Bargaining Agreements:  Past Performance in working with collective bargaining agreements, settling disputes and/or strike mitigation.



Phase-in: Past Performance in managing contract phase-in to include examples of successful and unsuccessful assumption of full-contract responsibilities within a similar environment which involved transition of facility services; operations and maintenance; software systems conversion; support to multiple customers; etc. without disruption of on-going manufacturing operations.



Relevance: Past Performance in managing similar complex operational environments including the identification and implementation of innovative techniques and technologies.



Small Business Utilization Plan:  The Government will also evaluate the Offeror’s small business utilization plan and/or participation in accordance with FAR 52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns. The Government will consider the methodology used to incorporate small business, percentages, performance incentives, evidence of corporate commitment, and the extent to which small businesses are included in areas of performance that are integral to the requirements of this RFP. 



V.	FACTOR 4 – COST/FEE (VOLUME III)



Cost is the least important evaluation factor.  The offeror’s proposed cost will be evaluated on the basis of cost realism and the proposed fees for reasonableness.  This evaluation may include, but is not limited to, consideration of actual rates being paid for similar services under other Government contracts, historical data, trend analysis, or DCAA rate check or audit information.  Proposed costs may be adjusted for the purposes of evaluation based upon the results of the cost realism analysis.



Although cost is the least important evaluation factor, it will not be ignored.  The degree of importance of the cost will increase with the degree of equality of the proposals in relation to the other factors on which selection is to be based, or when the cost is so significantly high as to diminish the value of the technical superiority to the Government.



In evaluating cost type offers, realism of the offeror's estimated cost will be considered.  "Realism of Estimated Cost" is determined by reference to the costs, which the offeror can reasonably be expected to incur in performance of the contract, in accordance with his offer.  Unrealistic personnel compensation rates will be considered in the cost realism analysis, and may be considered in the risk analysis evaluation.



Options.   All option years will be evaluated in accordance with FAR 52.217-5 Evaluation of Options (Jul 1990).





VI.	OTHER EVALUATION CRITERIA

A.	Certificate Of Insurance:  The contractor’s Certificate of Insurance will be evaluated in accordance with FAR clause entitled "52.228-5 Insurance - Work on a Government Installation", and HSAR clause entitled “3052.228-70 Insurance”.

B.	Contingency Plan: The contractor’s contingency plan will be evaluated in accordance with paragraph entitiled “H.7.  Continuity of Critical Contractor Deliverables [Services and/or Supplies] in the Event of an Emergency (Oct 2009)”.







Post Draft RFP  for Industry Comments

17-Feb-10

Receipt of Industry Comments of RFP

05-Mar-10

Possible Microsoft Webinar Industry Day

10-Mar-10

Issue RFP

14-Apr-10

Receive Phase 1 Proposals 

30-Apr-10

Invite to Phase 2 and Request Full Proposals

14-May-10

Pre-Proposal Conference & Site Visit 

18,19, or 20 May 10

Receive Phase 2 Proposals 

04-Jun-10

Oral Presentations

14-25 Jun 10

Award Contract (if off initials)

10-Oct-10

Begin 90-day Transition Period

01 Jan 11





If Applicable:



Conduct Discussions

20  Sep - 01 Oct 10

Receive Final Proposal Revisions (FPR))

15-Oct-10

Award Contract

23-Dec-10

Begin 90-day Transition Period

01 Jan 11



 52.246-4

Inspection of Services -- Fixed-Price

AUG 1996

Applicable to FFP CLINS

 52.246-5 

Inspection Of Services Cost-Reimbursement 

APR 1984 

Applicable to Cost-Reimbursement Type CLINS



52.242-15 Alt I 

Stop-Work Order (Aug 1989) -  Alternate I 

APR 1984 

Applicable to all CLINS

52.247-34 

F.O.B. Destination 

NOV 1991 

Applicable to all CLINS



The following  clauses are applicable to all CLINS

The following  clauses are applicable to all CLINS

The following  clauses are applicable to all CLINS

52.202-1 

Definitions 

JUL 2004 

52.203-3 

Gratuities 

APR 1984 

52.203-5 

Covenant Against Contingent Fees 

APR 1984 

52.203-6 

Restrictions On Subcontractor Sales To The Government 

SPE 2006 

52.203-7 

Anti-Kickback Procedures 

JUL 1995 

52.203-8 

Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity 

JAN 1997 

52.203-10 

Price Or Fee Adjustment For Illegal Or Improper Activity 

JAN 1997 

52.203-12 

Limitation On Payments To Influence Certain Federal Transactions 

SEP 2007 

52.204-2 

Security Requirements 

AUG 1996 

52.204-4 

Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper 

AUG 2000 

52.204-7 

Central Contractor Registration 

JUL 2006 

52.204-9

Personal Identification Verification of Contractor Personnel

SEP 2007

52.209-6 

Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment 

SEP 2006 

52.211-5 

Material Requirements 

AUG 2000 

52.215-2 

Audit and Records--Negotiation 

JUN 1999 

52.215-8 

Order of Precedence--Uniform Contract Format 

OCT 1997 

52.215-10 

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data 

OCT 1997 

52.215-11

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data—Modifications

OCT 1997

52.215-12 

Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data 

OCT 1997 

52.215-13 

Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data--Modifications 

OCT 1997 

52.215-14  Alt I

Integrity of Unit Prices, (OCT 1997) Alternate I

OCT 1997 

52.215-15 

Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions 

OCT 2004 

52.215-18 

Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other than Pensions 

JUL 2005 

52.215-19

Notification of Ownership Changes

OCT 1997



52.215-21 

Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data--Modifications 

OCT 1997 

52.219-8 

Utilization of Small Business Concerns 

MAY 2004 

52.219-14

Limitations on Subcontracting

DEC 1996

52.219-28 

Post-Award Small Business Program Re-representation

APR 2009

52.222-01

Notice To The Government Of Labor Disputes

FEB 1997

52.222-3 

Convict Labor 

JUN 2003 

52.222-4 

Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act - Overtime Compensation 

JUL 2005 

52.222-19 

Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies 

AUG 2007 

52.222-20

Walsh-Healy Public Contracts Act

DEC 1996

52.222-21 

Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities 

FEB 1999 

52.222-26 

Equal Opportunity 

May 2007 



52.222-35 

Equal Opportunity For Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the  Era and Other Eligible Veterans 

Equal Opportunity For Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the  Era and Other Eligible Veterans 

SEP 2006 

52.222-36 

Affirmative Action For Workers With Disabilities 

Affirmative Action For Workers With Disabilities 

JUN 1998 

52.222-37 

Employment Reports On Special  Disabled Veterans, Veterans Of The  Era, and Other Eligible Veterans 

Employment Reports On Special  Disabled Veterans, Veterans Of The  Era, and Other Eligible Veterans 

DEC 2001 

52.222-39

Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues and Fees

Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues and Fees

DEC 2004

52.222-41 

Service Contract Act Of 1965, As Amended 

Service Contract Act Of 1965, As Amended 

JUL 2005

52.222-43

Fair Labor Standards Act & SCA – Price Adjustment	(Multiple Year and Option Contracts)	 

Fair Labor Standards Act & SCA – Price Adjustment	(Multiple Year and Option Contracts)	 

SEP 2009

52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons

Combating Trafficking in Persons

AUG 2007

52.222-54

Employment Eligibility Verification

Employment Eligibility Verification

JAN 2009

52.223-03 Alt I

Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data (Jan 1997) - Alternate I

Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data (Jan 1997) - Alternate I

July 1995

52.223-5 Alt I & Alt II 

Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (AUG 2003) - Alternate I (AUG 2003) and Alternate II (AUG 2003) 

Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (AUG 2003) - Alternate I (AUG 2003) and Alternate II (AUG 2003) 

AUG 2003 

52.223-6 

Drug Free Workplace 

MAY 2001 

MAY 2001 

52.223-10

Waste Reduction Program

AUG 2000

AUG 2000

52.223-11

Ozone-Depleting Substances

May 2001

May 2001

52.223-12

Refrigeration Equipment & Air Conditioners

MAY 1995

MAY 1995

52.223-14

Toxic Chemical Release Reporting

AUG 2003

AUG 2003

52.223-15

Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products 

DEC 2007

DEC 2007

52.224-01

Privacy Act Notification

APR 1984

APR 1984

52.224-02

Privacy Act

APR 1984

APR 1984

52.225-5

Trade Agreements

AUG 2009

AUG 2009

52.225-13 

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases  

JUN 2008 

JUN 2008 

52.227-1 

Authorization and Consent 

JUL 1995 

JUL 1995 

52.227-2 

Notice And Assistance Regarding Patent And Copyright Infringement 

AUG 1996 

AUG 1996 

52.227-3 Alt I

Patent Indemnity (Apr 1984) , Alternate I 

APR 1984

APR 1984

52.227-16

Additional Data Requirements 

JUN 1987

JUN 1987

52.228-7 

Insurance--Liability To Third Persons 

MAR 1996 

MAR 1996 

52.232-4

Payments under Transportation Contracts and Transportation-Related Services Contracts 

APR 1984

APR 1984

52.232-9

Limitation of Withdrawing of Payment 

APR 1984

APR 1984

52.232-17 

Interest 

OCT 2008 

OCT 2008 

52.232-18 

Availability Of Funds 

APR 1984 

APR 1984 

52.232-23 

Assignment of Claims  

JAN 1986 

JAN 1986 

52.232-33 

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration 

OCT 2003 

OCT 2003 

52.233-1 Alt I 

Disputes (Jul 2002) -  Alternate I 

DEC 1991 

DEC 1991 

52.233-4

Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim

OCT 2004

OCT 2004

52.237-2 

Protection Of , Equipment, And Vegetation 

APR 1984 

APR 1984 

52.237-3 

Continuity Of Services 

JAN 1991 

JAN 1991 

52.239-1 

Privacy or Security Safeguards 

AUG 1996 

AUG 1996 

52.242-13 

Bankruptcy 

JUL 1995 

JUL 1995 

52.244-6 

Subcontracts for Commercial Items 

MAR 2007 

MAR 2007 

52.245-1 

Government Property  

JUN 2007 

JUN 2007 

52.245-9 

Use And Charges 

JUN 2007 

JUN 2007 

52.247-63

Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers 

JUN 2003

JUN 2003

52.248-1 

Value Engineering 

FEB 2000 

FEB 2000 

52.253-1 

Computer Generated Forms 

JAN 1991 

JAN 1991 











The following clauses are applicable to FFP CLINS:

The following clauses are applicable to FFP CLINS:



52.229-03

Federal, State, and Local Taxes 

APR 2003

52.232-1

Payments

APR 1984

52.232-8

Discounts for Prompt Payment

FEB 2002

52.232-11

Extras

APR 1984

52.232-25

Prompt Pay

OCT 2008

52.233-3  

Protest After Award  

AUG 1996

52.243-1 Alt II

Changes—Fixed Price (Aug 1987) -  Alternate II 

APR 1984 

52.249-2

Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) 

May 2004

52.249-8

Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) 

Apr 1984







The following clauses are applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS:

The following clauses are applicable to Cost-Reimbursement CLINS:



52.232-22 

Limitation Of Funds 

APR 1984 

52.232-20 

Limitation Of Cost 

APR 1984 

52.232-25 Alt I 

Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) Alternate I 

FEB 2002 

52.233-3 Alt I 

Protest After Award (Aug 1996) -  Alternate I 

JUN 1985 

52.242-1 

Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs 

APR 1984 

52.242-3 

Penalties for Unallowable Costs 

MAY 2001 

52.242-4 

Certification of Final Indirect Costs 

JAN 1997 

52.243-2 Alt II 

Changes--Cost Reimbursement (Aug 1987) -  Alternate II 

APR 1984 

52.244-5 

Competition In Subcontracting 

DEC 1996 

52.249-6 

Termination (Cost Reimbursement) 

MAY 2004 

52.249-14 

Excusable Delays 

APR 1984 



CODE

LABOR CATEGORIES



GRADE

MINIMUM MONETARY WAGE -- FRINGE BENEFITS

01311

Secretary I (Administrative)

GS-4

$15.17 

13071

Photographer I

GS-4

$15.17 

13073

Photographer III

GS-7

$21.03 

01192

Order Clerk II (Buyer)

GS-3

$13.52 

05220

Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper

WG-5

$20.14 

11150

Janitor/Custodian/Lab Support 

WG-2

$16.33 

01012

Clerk II    (MP2)

GS-4

$15.17

47080

Marine Vessel Assistant 



$24.93 

12040

Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) 

GS-5

$16.97 

12040

Lead EMT 

GS-6

$18.82 

27070

Fire Fighter

GS-6

$18.82

30090

Environmental Technician (Health & Safety)

GS-7

$21.03

01020

Administrative Assistant (Safety Program)

GS-7

$21.03

14042

Computer Operator II

GS-5

$16.97

14160

Personal Computer Support Technician  (Telecom)

GS-7

$21.03

01060

Dispatcher

GS-5

$16.97



Material 

(If none, insert “None”)

Identification No.

  

  

  

  

  

  



FAR Clause

Title

Date

Change

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  



 52.215-1 A2

Instructions to Offerors -- Competitive Acquisition

JAN 2004

Applicable to all CLINS

 52.215-16 

Facilities Capital Cost of Money

JUN 2003 

Applicable to Cost-Reimbursement Type CLINS

52.222-46 

Evaluation Of Compensation For Professional Employees 

FEB 1993 

Applicable to Cost-Reimbursement Type CLINS

52.237-1

Site Visit

APR 1984

Applicable to all CLINS

52.237-10 

Identification of Uncompensated Overtime 

OCT 1997 

Applicable to Cost-Reimbursement Type CLINS





Content

Binding 

Page Limitations

Number of Copies

Phase 1









Volume I

Phase 1 Submittals

Three Ring



Original 

+4 copies

+ 1 Electronic copy



 Conceptual Solution 



30





 Examples of Relevant Experience



10





Key Personnel Resumes



15 

(5 per resume)





Rough Order of Magnitude of Costs & Fees



10



Phase 2









Volume I

Management & Technical Approach comprising of (2) parts:

The oral presentation slides addressing sub factors “Management & Technical  Approach” and “Staffing & Total Compensation”



Written Submittals for Sub factors

				Resumes

				



	Preliminary Plans

		Quality Management Plan

		Project Plan

		Staffing plan

		Safety and Health Plan

		Environmental Mgmt Plan



Three Ring

(100) slides



 











-Not to Exceed 15 pages total



-Not to Exceed ___ pages total

Original  

+ 4 copies 

+ 1 electronic copy



Volume II

Past Performance

Stapled Upper Left Corner or Three Ring

(25) per firm

Original

+ 4 copies

+ 1 electronic copy











Volume III

RFP & Cost Proposal 

Three Ring

None

Original 

+ 2 copies

+ 1 electronic copy



NOTE:  It is the offeror’s responsibility to research, identify and calculate, as part of their price proposal, the applicability of any tax liability.  The Government will not increase the price of contract performance if the contractor learns of a tax liability after award of the contract



GOVT LABOR CATEGORY

NO. OF HOURS ESTIMATED

CONTRACTOR LABOR CATEGORY*

HOURLY RATE**

NO. OF HOURS**

Project Engineer

2000

Project Engineer 1

$18.00

1500





Project Engineer 2

$15.00

  500















Evaluated Rate

$17.25

2000



52.217-5 

Evaluation Of Options 

JUL 1990 

Applicable to all CLINS


                                                                   Definitions

|Term                                                             |Definition                                                       |
|Biosafety                                                        |The application of knowledge, techniques and equipment to prevent|
|                                                                 |personal, laboratory and environmental exposure to potentially   |
|                                                                 |infectious agents or biohazards. Biosafety defines the           |
|                                                                 |containment conditions under which infectious agents can be      |
|                                                                 |safely manipulated with the objective of containment to confine  |
|                                                                 |biohazards and to reduce the potential exposure of the laboratory|
|                                                                 |worker, persons outside of the laboratory, and the environment to|
|                                                                 |potentially infectious agents.                                   |
|Biosecurity                                                      |The discipline addressing the security of microbiological agents |
|                                                                 |and toxins and the threats posed to human and animal health, the |
|                                                                 |environment, and the economy by deliberate misuse or release.    |
|Biocontainment                                                   |Administrative and Microbiological practices, safety equipment   |
|                                                                 |and facility safeguards for the corresponding level of risk      |
|                                                                 |associated with the handling of a particular agent(s) to protect |
|                                                                 |research and laboratory staff; non-laboratory occupants, workers |
|                                                                 |and other persons of the building and the public health and      |
|                                                                 |outside environment.                                             |
|Select agent                                                     |Biological agents and toxins (i.e., Select Agents and Toxins) as |
|                                                                 |listed in 42 CFR Part 73; 7 CFR Part 331 and 9 CFR Part 121 that |
|                                                                 |are regulated by both the US Departments of Health and Human     |
|                                                                 |Services and Agriculture that could pose a severe threat to      |
|                                                                 |public health and safety and also to animals, plant health or    |
|                                                                 |animal or plant products.                                        |
|Decontamination                                                  |The process of killing, removing or reducing infectious          |
|                                                                 |microorganisms to a certain level with the objective to render   |
|                                                                 |the contaminated material safe for further handling.             |
|Hazardous Materials (HazMat)                                     |A hazardous material is any item or agent (biological, chemical, |
|                                                                 |and physical) which has the potential to cause harm to humans,   |
|                                                                 |animals, or the environment, either by itself or through         |
|                                                                 |interaction with other factors.  Hazardous materials are defined |
|                                                                 |and regulated in the United States primarily by laws and         |
|                                                                 |regulations administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection    |
|                                                                 |Agency (EPA), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health            |
|                                                                 |Administration (OSHA), the U.S. Department of Transportation     |
|                                                                 |(DOT), and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Each has|
|                                                                 |its own definition of a "hazardous material."                    |
|Journeyman                                                       |A worker skilled in a trade or craft who has completed an        |
|                                                                 |apprenticeship training program or who has sufficient, suitable, |
|                                                                 |and thorough experience and/or education in that trade or craft, |
|                                                                 |5 years minimum, who thoroughly understands his or her craft, and|
|                                                                 |who can be relied upon to perform the expected tasks             |
|                                                                 |independently without direction, at an acceptable speed and      |
|                                                                 |quality.                                                         |
|Contractor-Acquired Property                                     |Property acquired by the Contractor at the request of the        |
|                                                                 |Government                                                       |


                                                                     Acronyms

|Acronym                                                          |Definition                                                       |
|PIADC                                                            |Plum Island Activity Disease Center                              |
|O&M                                                              |Operations and Maintenance                                       |
|DHS                                                              |Department of Homeland Security                                  |
|ONL                                                              |Office of National Laboratories                                  |
|USDA                                                             |United States Department of Agriculture                          |
|APHIS                                                            |Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services                      |
|IDIQ                                                             |Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity                          |
|FAR                                                              |Federal Acquisition Regulation                                   |
|QASP                                                             |Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan                              |
|QA/QC                                                            |Quality Assurance/Quality Control                                |
|FOH                                                              |Federal Occupational Health                                      |
|BSL                                                              |Biosafety Level                                                  |
|ISO 9001                                                         |International Organization for Standardization                   |
|NQA1                                                             |Nuclear Quality Assurance                                        |
|RCM                                                              |Reliability Centered Maintenance                                 |
|CMMS                                                             |Computerized Maintenance Management System                       |
|IT                                                               |Information Technology                                           |
|RFP                                                              |Request for Proposal                                             |
|AQL                                                              |Acceptable Quality Levels                                        |
|CFR                                                              |Code of Federal Regulation                                       |
|OSHA                                                             |Occupational Safety and Health Administration                    |
|VPP                                                              |Voluntary Protection Program                                     |
|ALS                                                              |Advanced Life Support                                            |
|HEPA                                                             |High Efficiency Particulate Air                                  |
|CIH                                                              |Certified Industrial Hygienist                                   |
|CSP                                                              |Certified Safety Professional                                    |
|SEI                                                              |Software Engineering Institute                                   |
|BMBL                                                             |Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories         |
|CERCLA                                                           |Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability|
|                                                                 |Act of 1980                                                      |
|RCRA                                                             |Resource Conservation and Recovery Act                           |
|NYSDEC                                                           |New York State Department of Environmental Compliance            |
|ANSI                                                             |American National Standards Institute                            |
|NSF                                                              |National Sanitation Foundation                                   |
|PMP                                                              |Project Management Professional                                  |
|PPE                                                              |Personal Protective Equipment                                    |
|LOTO                                                             |Lock Out / Tag Out                                               |
|JSA                                                              |Job Safety Analysis                                              |
|AutoCAD                                                          |Auto Computer Aided Design                                       |
|EPEAT                                                            |Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool                 |
|EPO                                                              |Environmental Protection Office                                  |
|EPA                                                              |Environmental Protection Agency                                  |
|DOE                                                              |Department of Energy                                             |
|OMSP                                                             |Occupational Medical Surveillance Program                        |
|CAP                                                              |Contractor-Acquired Property                                     |
|GFP                                                              |Government-Furnished Property                                    |
|HSAR                                                             |Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation                         |
|CO                                                               |Contracting Officer                                              |
|LDD                                                              |Lost, Damaged or Destroyed                                       |
|GPA                                                              |Government Property Administrator                                |
|CDC                                                              |Centers of Disease Control and Prevention                        |
|NIH                                                              |National Institutes of Health                                    |
|SOP                                                              |Standard Operating Procedures                                    |
|EMT                                                              |Emergency Medical Technician                                     |
|WWTP                                                             |Waste Water Treatment Plant                                      |
|VHF                                                              |Very High Frequency                                              |
|AES                                                              |Advanced Encryption Standards                                    |
|OTAR                                                             |Over the Air Re-keying                                           |
|FSS                                                              |Facility Security System                                         |
|ESS                                                              |Electronic Security System                                       |
|EECS                                                             |Electronic Entry Control System                                  |
|IDS                                                              |Intrusion Detection System                                       |
|CCTV                                                             |Closed Circuit Television System                                 |
|DVR                                                              |Digital Video Recording System                                   |
|EKCS                                                             |Electronic Key Control System                                    |
|EO                                                               |Executive Order                                                  |
|POC                                                              |Point of Contact                                                 |
|BAS                                                              |Building Automation System                                       |
|FOS                                                              |Facility Operations Specialist                                   |
|LIPA                                                             |Long Island Power Authority                                      |
|GOV                                                              |Government Vehicle                                               |
|UPS                                                              |Uninterruptible Power Supplies                                   |
|NFPA                                                             |National Fire Protection Association                             |
|UST                                                              |Underground Storage Tanks                                        |
|AST                                                              |Above Ground Storage Tanks                                       |
|CO                                                               |Contracting Officer                                              |
|COTR                                                             |Contracting Officerâs Technical Representative                   |
|SCDHS                                                            |Suffolk County Department of Health Services                     |
|VAV                                                              |Variable Air Volume box                                          |
|AC                                                               |Air Conditioning                                                 |
|ITRB                                                             |Information Technology Review Board                              |
|C&A                                                              |Certification and Accreditation                                  |
|HSDN                                                             |Homeland Secure Data Network                                     |
|MOU                                                              |Memorandum of Understanding                                      |
|BMS                                                              |Building Managing System                                         |
|PLC                                                              |Programmable Logic Controllers                                   |
|STE                                                              |Secure Telephone Equipment                                       |
|VOIP                                                             |Voice Over Internet Protocol                                     |
|GETS                                                             |Government Emergency Telecommunications Service                  |
|WPS                                                              |Wireless Priority Service                                        |
|OP                                                               |Orient Point                                                     |
|SAA                                                              |Satellite Accumulation Areas                                     |
|TCLP                                                             |Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure                       |
|RMW                                                              |Regulated Medical Waste                                          |
|SPDES                                                            |State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System                     |
|UV                                                               |Ultraviolet                                                      |
|DMR                                                              |Discharge Monitoring Report                                      |
|SCBA                                                             |Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus                               |
|USCG                                                             |United States Coast Guard                                        |
|VTC                                                              |Video Teleconferencing                                           |
|CFC                                                              |Chloroflorocarbon                                                |
|ICS                                                              |Incident Command System                                          |
|EOD                                                              |entry on duty                                                    |
|LBI                                                              |Limited Background Investigation                                 |
|LPRs                                                             |Lawful Permanent Residents                                       |
|USC                                                              |United States Code                                               |
|HLS EA                                                           |Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture                        |
|EIT                                                              |Electronic Information Technology                                |
|COTS/GOTS                                                        |Commercial off the Shelf                                         |
|OAST                                                             |Office on Accessible Systems and Technology                      |
|ODC                                                              |Other Direct Costs                                               |
|MP2                                                              |PIADCs maintenance system                                        |
|IATA                                                             |International Air Transportation Authority                       |
|ICAO                                                             |International Civil Aviation Organization                        |
|SAN                                                              |Storage Area Network                                             |
|HSPD                                                             |Homeland Security Presidential Directive                         |
|QI                                                               |Qualified Individual                                             |
|ORSO                                                             |Oil Spill Response Organization                                  |
|EST                                                              |Edwards System Technology                                        |
|PDA                                                              |Personal Data Assistants                                         |
|TTY                                                              |Teletypewriter                                                   |
|TE                                                               |Technical Exhibit                                                |
|PMO                                                              |Program Management Office                                        |
|GFI                                                              |Ground fault interrupter                                         |
|AAALAC                                                           |Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal|
|                                                                 |Care                                                             |
|PRP                                                              |Personal Reliability Program                                     |
|DX                                                               |Split AC system where have compressor different place from coils |


                                                      GENERAL CONDITIONS – PIADC CONTRACTORS
                                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.1 SUMMARY
      1.1.1 Location
      1.1.2 Overview of Requirements


1.2 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
      1.2.1 Code of Conduct
      1.2.2 Badges
      1.2.3 Searches
      1.2.4 Deliveries
      1.2.5 Prohibited Articles and Activities
      1.2.6 Key Control
      1.2.7 Document Control


1.3 HOW CONTRACTORS OBTAIN APPROVAL TO ACCESS PLUM ISLAND
      1.3.1 Security Department Contacts
      1.3.2 Approval Timeframes
      1.3.3 U. S. Citizen Visitors
      1.3.4 Non-U. S. Citizen Visitors
      1.3.5 Approved Visitors


1.4 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
      1.4.1 Responsibility
      1.4.2 Personal Protective Equipment
      1.4.3 Emergencies


1.5 STANDARD WORK PRACTICES
      1.5.1 General Provisions
      1.5.2 Work Outside Of Biocontainment Areas
      1.5.3 Work in Bio-Containment Areas
      1.5.4 Coordination of Work
      1.5.5 Execution of Work
      1.5.6 Protection of Work, Existing Improvements, Equipment, Utilities, Antiquities, and Adjacent Property


1.6 MARINE TRANSPORATION
      1.6.1 Government Furnished Marine Transportation
      1.6.2 Other Marine Transportation


1.7 CONTRACTOR PARKING

1.8 TRANSPORTATION AND USE OF CONTRACTOR VEHICLES ON PLUM ISLAND

1.9 TRANSPORTATION, HANDLING, AND STORAGE
      1.9.1 Supplier Coordination
      1.9.2 Transportation Facilities
      1.9.3 Use of Existing Roads as Haul Routes
      1.9.4 Storage of Supplies
      1.9.5 Equipment on the Site

1.10 CONTRACTOR’S MOBILIZATION AREA

1.11 WORKING HOURS
      1.11.1 Normal Work Hours
      1.11.2 Holidays


1.12 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED SUPPORT
      1.12.1 Government-owned Facilities
      1.12.2 Utilities
      1.12.3 Cafeteria
      1.12.4 Government Vehicles


1.13 MOVEABLE FIXTURES

1.14 CONTRACTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
      1.14.1 Loading and Unloading
      1.14.2 Movement On and Off Plum Island
      1.14.3 On-Island Vehicle Requirements
      1.14.4 Vehicle and Equipment Fuel


1.15 ENVIRONMENTAL
      1.15.1 Fuel Tanks
      1.15.2 Fuel and Oil Spills
      1.15.3 Vehicle or Equipment Leaks
      1.15.4 Debris Removal
      1.15.5 Use of Environmentally Friendly Projects
      1.15.6 Environmental Aspects and Impacts
      1.15.7 Hazardous Materials


1.16 FIRE SAFETY
      1.16.1 Fire Precautions
      1.16.2 Fire Protection or Alarm System Protection
      1.16.3 Fire Alarm Outages
      1.16.4 General Requirements


1.17 RESTORATION


1.18 CAD STANDARDS
      1.18.1 General
      1.18.2 PIADC Specific


1.19 AS BUILT DRAWINGS
      1.19.1 General
      1.19.2 Contract Close-Out


1.20 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
      1.20.1 IT Equipment
      1.20.2 Information Systems Security Requirements

1.21 CONTRACTOR STAFF AND EMPLOYEES
      1.21.1 Contractor Contact Information
      1.21.2 Contractor’s Employees

1.22 SUPERVISION OF CONTRACTOR’S EMPLOYEES
      1.22.1 Contractor Accountability
      1.22.2 Contractor Supervision
      1.22.3 Contractor Personnel

1.23 NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF DELAYS

1.24 INSURANCE COVERAGE

1.25 ADVERTISEMENTS, PUBLICIZING AWARDS, AND NEWS RELEASES

  1. SUMMARY

   1. Location - The Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC) is a federal facility located on an island approximately 1.5 miles east of Orient
      Point, NY.  PIADC also operates a federal facility at Orient Point, NY which includes an administration building, warehouse, parking lot,
      and marine service facility for freight and passengers in support of the facility located on Plum Island.  Additionally, PIADC operates a
      passenger only ferry that rents dock space and parking facilities at Old Saybrook CT, for routine transportation of employees and visitors
      to Plum Island.

   2. Overview of Requirements – The following key requirements are covered in detail in following sections:

    1. Access to Plum Island is by Government operated ferry boats from Orient Point, New York or Old Saybrook, Connecticut unless other
       transportation to Plum Island is approved by the Government.  The ferry schedule is established and closely followed.  Access to the PIADC
       Government facility at Orient Point, or the Government ferry at Old Saybrook must be pre-arranged by PIADC security and requires check-in
       with photo identification at the gate and/or vessel ramp.

    2. Due to the mission of the PIADC, workers, contractors, and subcontractors at the site must strictly observe all biological safety,
       physical security, and environmental management requirements, as detailed in the sections below. Special safety work procedures must be
       followed, and will affect personnel, their work, delivery and removal of materials and equipment.

    3. For purposes of this document, references to authorization, approval, inspection of/by the COTR includes designees, such as engineering,
       environmental, safety, security, or other Government personnel.

    4. If work is performed in or around biological laboratory space, additional biological safety precautions are required.

    5. Weather conditions may occasionally limit or prevent routine ferry operation and affect project schedule.

    6. Weight and size of vehicles and large equipment may prohibit transportation on the Government ferry.  Commercial ferry transportation must
       be arranged and coordinated with Island operations and security in advance by the Contractor.

    7. All vehicle and equipment transportation to PIADC must be coordinated and scheduled in advance.

    8. Access to Plum Island requires one (1) business day prior notice and must be coordinated with the COTR.

    9. Access to the Orient Point facility and the ferry at Old Saybrook by Contractor personnel is restricted to persons approved via the
       visitor application process until a picture badge is issued.

   10. Plum Island includes environmentally sensitive habitats. Vehicles must stay on paved or gravel roads at all times.  If work area includes
       beaches, shorelines, wetlands, or other environmentally sensitive areas, equipment access routes must be approved in advance by the COTR.

  2. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

   3. PIADC Code of Conduct - The PIADC and all properties associated with the PIADC are Government property.  Due to the mission and the
      scientific work conducted by the PIADC, the island and all properties are restricted access areas.  The general public is not authorized to
      enter onto the premises or into the harbor.  Individuals must have official business that is relevant to the mission of the Center to be
      permitted to visit.

1.2.1.1     Contractor personnel, while performing services on Plum Island, are expected to conduct themselves in a professional and workmanlike
manner.  The following rules and regulations apply to all property at Orient Point and Plum Island under the custody and control of Department
of Homeland Security (DHS) and all persons entering on such property.

1.2.1.1     Admission to Property.  Plum Island is closed to the general public – admission to the facility is restricted to authorized persons
and pre-approved visitors.  Upon entry, visitors shall register with the Security Guard and display Government or other identifying credentials
to the Officer (photo id driver’s license or other official photo id).  Visitors will be issued a visitors badge and must wear and display the
badge at all times, while visiting Plum Island.

1.2.1.2     Inspection.  Packages, briefcases, and other containers in the possession of visitors, employees and/or other persons arriving to or
departing from Plum Island property are subject to inspection.  Do not depart the island with any food and/or liquid. Do not leave packages or
briefcases unattended.

1.2.1.3     Weapons.  No person entering or while on DHS property, except in an official capacity, shall carry or possess firearms, explosives,
dangerous materials or other deadly weapons.

1.2.1.4     Escorting Visitors.  All visitors and visiting groups must be escorted by an authorized Plum Island staff member(s) while on Federal
property.  Please remain with your escort(s) at all times – do not wander to areas away from the areas being visited.  The security staff will
patrol the various job sites and will request identification from the contractors.  Any individual observed in an unauthorized area and/or any
individual not cooperating with the security staff will be escorted off the island.

1.2.1.5     Photography.  Use of cameras, video, camera phones or other photographic devices is not permitted on Plum Island without prior
authorization.  Approved uses are restricted to the areas specified for camera/video use.  Cameras brought to the island without authorization
will be held by Security and returned upon exiting the facility.

1.2.1.6     Alcoholic Beverages and Narcotics.  Entering DHS property with alcoholic beverages/controlled substances and/or the use of alcoholic
beverages or a controlled substance on DHS property is prohibited.  This does not apply for drugs prescribed for a patient by a licensed
physician.

1.2.1.7     Preservation of Property.  The improper disposal of rubbish on property, the willful destruction, damage or theft of property is
prohibited.  No materials may be removed from Plum Island without specific permission.

1.2.1.8     Quarantine Restrictions.  Visitors coming to Plum Island, but not entering its laboratories, are under no restrictions for contact
with livestock, zoo or pet animals after they return to the mainland.  Restrictions do apply to visitors entering the laboratories.

1.2.1.9     Conformity with Signs and Directions.  Persons in and on property shall at all times comply with official signs of a prohibitory,
regulatory, or directory nature and with the lawful direction of the PIADC Security Force.

1.2.1.10    Disturbances.  Any loitering, disorderly conduct, or other conduct on property which creates loud or unusual noise or nuisance;
which unreasonably obstructs the usual use of entrances, foyers, lobbies, corridors, offices, elevators, stairways, or parking lots; which
otherwise impedes or disrupts the performance of official duties by Government employees; or which prevents the general public from obtaining
the administrative services provided on the property in a timely manner is prohibited.

1.2.1.11    Gambling.  Participating in gambling, the conduct of a lottery or pool, or the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets is
prohibited.

1.2.1.12    Soliciting, Vending, and Debt Collection.  Commercial soliciting, political soliciting, vending of all kinds, displaying or
distributing commercial advertising, or collecting private debts on DHS controlled property is prohibited.

1.2.1.13    Posting and Distributing Material.  Posting or affixing materials such as pamphlets, handbills, or flyers on bulletin boards or
elsewhere on DHS controlled property are prohibited.

1.2.1.14    Vehicles and Pedestrian Traffic.

1.2.1.14.1  Drivers of all vehicles entering or while on property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with
the signals and/or directions of the PIADC Security Force and all posted traffic signs.  Seatbelts must be worn at all times.

     2. Blocking entrances, driveways, walkways, loading platforms and/or fire hydrants on DHS property is prohibited.

     3. Parking on DHS controlled property is not allowed without permission. Parking without authority, except in an emergency, in unauthorized
        locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or parking contrary to the direction of posted signs are prohibited.  Vehicles
        parked in violation shall be subject to removal at the owners, risk and expense.

1.2.1.15    Nondiscrimination.  There shall be no discrimination by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race,
creed, sex, color, or national origin in furnishing or by refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public
nature including all services, privileges, accommodations and activities provided thereby on the property.

1.2.1.16    Any questions regarding these rules and regulations should be directed to both the COTR and the DHS PIADC Security Department points
of contact listed herein.  Violators of the Code of Conduct may be removed from the Island and future access denied.

1.2.2 Badges:

1.2.2.1     Log-in:  Until a non-transferable PIADC Identification Badge is issued, each Contractor employee shall be required to log-in at the
dock area and receive a marine-transportation badge.  The Contractor employee will then log-in and log-out daily at Building 100 upon arriving
and departing the island.  A marine–transportation badge will be issued for the return ferry trip and turned in at the destination dock area.
Once a badge is issued, it will allow the bearer access to the specific construction sites or related areas only.

1.2.2.2     Display of Badges:  PIADC Identification Badges must be prominently displayed above the waist with the photo visible from the front
at all times while on PIADC property. Any individual observed without a PIADC ID badge will be challenged by the security staff.  Any individual
not cooperating with the security staff will have their PIADC ID confiscated and be escorted off the Island.

1.2.2.3     Request to See Badge:  The Marine Crew and the Security Officers will request to see identification and badges.  Please have the
card properly displayed to avoid any confusion.

1.2.2.4     Badge Return Upon Completion of Work:  Badges remain the property of the U.S. Government and must be returned to PIADC upon
completion of an individual’s work on this contract. Failure to do so could result in the loss of future work with PIADC.
   5. Long Term Badges:  Red badges with picture will be issued to personnel working on the island for extended periods of time.  These badges
      can be valid for up to one year.  People who possess these badges must undergo basic orientation training and badge processing on their
      first day on the island.  Personnel with these badges must have their badges scanned by the security officer when boarding the boat, both
      entering and leaving the island.

   6. Lost Badges:  Lost badges must be reported to Security immediately.  Lost badges will require that the person revert to the check in
      procedure.  Valid picture ID will be required to enter Plum Island.

   7. Laptop computers and Cameras:  Laptop computers and all cameras need prior approval to be permitted on Plum Island.  There must be a
      legitimate use for the equipment.  Any computers that will be connected to the PIADC network must be scanned by the PIADC IT department for
      viruses.  Permission forms are attached.

   2. Searches

1.2.3.1     Items subject to Search:  The Security Department will conduct a search of all contractor bags, property, briefcases, etc.

1.2.3.2     Vehicles:  All vehicles will be searched.  The driver will open the engine compartment and cargo area(s) to provide access for
security.

   3. Deliveries

1.2.4.1     Responsibility:  It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure delivery companies are aware of the access requirements at the
PIADC.

1.2.4.2     Provisions for Delivery Companies:  To accommodate the project, the delivery company may submit a pool of driver’s name with the
visitor application for access to Orient Point. When the delivery vehicle arrives, Security will request that the driver present official photo
identification. Security Personnel will compare the identification to the submitted list of drivers.  If the driver’s name appears on the list,
the vehicle may enter the premises to make the delivery.  If the driver’s name does not appear on the list, the delivery will be denied.  There
is no delivery capability at Old Saybrook, CT.

   4. Prohibited Articles and Activities

   1. Prohibited Articles:  The following items are prohibited on all PIADC properties:


     1. Weapons, firearms, explosives, or other dangerous instruments or materials likely to produce injury or damage to persons or property
1.2.5.1.2   Controlled substances (specifically:  illegal drugs and paraphernalia; with the exception of prescription medicines)
1.2.5.1.3   Alcoholic beverages
1.2.5.1.4   Other items prohibited by law
Personal nonessential items
1.2.5.1.5   Pets
1.2.5.1.6   Video, photo, or digital cameras (unless required and prior approval is granted)
Vehicles and other motorized equipment (unless prior approval is granted)

1.2.5.2     Prohibitive Activities: The following activities are prohibited on PIADC properties:

      1.2.5.2.1   Gambling
      1.2.5.2.2   Swimming
      1.2.5.2.3   Fishing
      1.2.5.2.4   Hunting
      1.2.5.2.5   Horseplay
      1.2.5.2.6   Joking or making light of security issues or personnel
      1.2.5.2.7   Challenging Security Personnel

1.2.6 Key Control

1.2.6.1     The Contractor shall provide duplicate keys and lock combinations to the PIADC Security Department for the purpose of security
inspections of every area of project work including tool boxes and parked machines and vehicles and take any emergency action.

1.2.6.2     For work requiring the supply and installation of door hardware the Contractor shall provide hardware that is compatible with the
existing PIADC Key Control System and coordinate as necessary for project specific work.

1.2.7 Document Control

1.2.7.1     Before starting any work, the General Contractor/Sub Contractors shall submit an electronic security memorandum describing the
approach to following goals and maintaining confidentiality of “sensitive information”.

1.2.7.2     The General Contractor is responsible for safekeeping of all drawings, project manual and other project information. This
information shall be shared only with those with a specific need to accomplish the project.

1.2.7.3     Certain documents, sketches, videos or photographs and drawings may be marked “Security Sensitive” or “Sensitive Unclassified”.  The
Contractor shall secure such information in separate containers and limit the access to only those who will need it for the project. Return the
information to the Contracting Officer upon request. These security documents shall not be removed or transmitted from the project site without
the written approval of Contracting Officer.

1.2.7.4     All paper waste or electronic media such as CD’s and diskettes shall be shredded and destroyed in a manner acceptable to the PIADC.


1.2.7.5     Notify Contracting Officer and Site Security Officer immediately when there is a loss or compromise of “sensitive information”.

1.2.7.6     Sensitive information including drawings and other documents may be attached to e-mail provided all DHS IT procedures are followed.

  2. HOW CONTRACTORS OBTAIN APPROVAL TO ACCESS PLUM ISLAND

1.3.1 In order to be granted permission to gain access to Plum Island, the Contractor personnel performing services on Plum Island is required
to review, understand, and comply with the policies and procedures outlined in the Plum Island Visitor Authorization and Control Program (see
Attachment), complete any of the necessary forms (for instance but not limited to the enclosed Plum Island Animal Disease Center Visitor
Application) and submit this/these form(s) to the DHS PIADC Security Department.  The DHS PIADC Security Department points of contact are:

Mr. Jim Palmieri
Security Manager
Department of Homeland Security
Plum Island Animal Disease Center
40550 Route 25
Orient Point, NY 11957
Telephone:  631-323-3259
Fax:  631-323-3335
E-mail:  jim.palmieri@dhs.gov

Mr. Jerry Aylward
Security Specialist (FLEO)
Department of Homeland Security
Plum Island Animal Disease Center
40550 Route 25
Orient Point, NY 11957
Telephone:  631-323-3390
Fax:  631-323-3090
E-mail:  jerry.aylward@dhs.gov

1.3.2 Access to the PIADC facility at Orient Point must be arranged with and approved by in advance the COTR and the DHS PIADC Security
Department.  Some Contractor personnel may be asked to provide personal identifiable information in support of a National Crime Information
Center (NCIC) background investigation.  Each prospective visitor will be viewed as an individual case; however, in general, processing time for
United States citizens who submit properly prepared form(s) based on the instructions in the Plum Island Visitor Authorization and Control
Program may be one (1) business day for access to the administrative areas or at least five (5) business days for access to the bio-containment
areas.  Furthermore, on average, processing time for non-United States citizens who submit properly prepared form(s) based on the instructions
in the Plum Island Visitor Authorization and Control Program may at least 20 (twenty) business days for general access or at least seven (7)
business days for access to the bio-containment areas.  DHS PIADC, at its own discretion, reserves the right to deny access to any prospective
visitor/Contractor employee.

For more specific information or responses to inquiries, such as forms, identification/badges, or searches, please refer to the Plum Island
Visitor Authorization and Control Program or telephone or write to the DHS PIADC Security Department points of contact listed above.

1.3.3 U.S. Citizen Visitors –

1.3.3.1     The COTR shall notify the Security Manager that a Contractor or their subcontractors have a need to access PIADC.

1.3.3.2     The Contractor shall complete the “PIADC Visitor Application Form”, attached, and provide the information directly to security for
all persons that will need access to the PIADC.

1.3.3.3     The application form must be submitted at least 24 hours or one business day in advance of the scheduled visit.

1.3.3.4     PIADC Security will review the forms and authorize or deny access.

1.3.4 Non-U.S. Citizen Visitors –

1.3.4.1     A non-US citizen Contractor visitor to PIADC must complete an “Approval of Foreign Visitor” memorandum and submit the completed form
directly to security at least 20 (twenty) business days prior to the visit.

1.3.4.2     Failure to fill out the form completely or to provide all requested information accurately and in its entirety will delay the review
process and result in disapproval of the visit.

1.3.4.3     Once the individual is approved, the Contractor can then submit the standard “PIADC Visitor Application” noting on the form that the
non-citizen status was approved for this particular individual.

1.3.5 Approved Visitors –

1.3.5.1     PIADC Reception personnel prepare a Visitor List consisting of the visitor’s name, company represented, date of arrival, time of
arrival, time of departure, and if a camera was approved for the visit. If the Contractor chooses to verify that a name is on the visitor list,
the Contractor can contact the reception desk at 631-323-3300 between the hours of 0700 and 1600, Monday through Friday.

1.3.5.2     At the Orient Point, NY facility, the visitor should arrive 30 minutes before the scheduled boat departure time to present an
official photo identification card (Examples; State driver’s license, Passport) to gain access to the parking facility and the ferry.  If a
PIADC badge has been authorized, the security guard will provide the badge in exchange for an official photo identification card, to be
exchanged at the end of the day when the person leaves.

1.3.5.3     At the Old Saybrook, CT, visitor should arrive 20 minutes before the scheduled boat departure time to enter the Marina or alternate
parking facility, walk to the boat, and present their identification to the Marine Crew on the dock prior to boarding the vessel.  Upon arrival
at PIADC, the visitor shall proceed to the reception desk to sign in before going to the work area.  The visitor shall proceed to reception at
the end of the day to sign out upon departure.

1.3.5.4     After boarding the boat, each first time or long absent visitor must sign a “Visitor Affidavit” quarantine declaration whereby the
visitor agrees to avoid contact with susceptible animals off of Plum Island or as designated by the Safety Officer. The visitor also agrees to
abide by all applicable safety regulations. A copy of this document with its conditions is attached.  A quarantine period is not required for
employees, contractors or materials/equipment for work conducted outside of bio-containment areas.

1.3.5.5     Persons arriving by commercial freight ferry shall contact and coordinate with the COTR and PIADC Security Manager for access
instructions prior to the event.


1.3.5.6     Following approval and depending on the frequency of visits, the Security Officer may decide to issue a temporary photo-
identification badge. For these personnel, an approximate 15 minute orientation is required for each visitor working outside of the laboratory
bio-containment areas, and a one hour orientation and a baseline blood sample is required for those working inside a bio-containment area.

  3. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

1.4.1 Responsibility –

1.4.1.1     The Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of all personnel and comply with all applicable provisions of
federal, state and municipal safety laws and building codes to prevent accidents or injury to persons on, about, or adjacent to, the premises
where the work is being performed.

   1. The Contractor shall make certain that project workers adhere to safety requirements per the Core of Engineers Safety and Health
      Requirements Manual EM385-1-1.  Disregard of OSHA and other safety regulations may result in a “Stop Work Order”.

   2. The Contractor is responsible for job site safety, and shall submit a PIADC Site Safety and Health Plan (SSHP) for Government review and
      approval prior to work mobilization. The site-specific SSHP should identify potential hazards and include standard OSHA or industry
      accepted safety protocols.  Also, upon 30 days after contract initiation, Contractors should generate Job Safety Analyses (JSAs) for
      definable features of work.

   1. Personal Protective Equipment - Personal Protective Equipment, (e.g. respiratory protection, safety glasses, hard hats, safety harnesses,
      and other safety equipment, must be worn as required by 29 CFR 1926.28and 29 CRR 1910.  Clothing should be worn that is appropriate for the
      work site.

   2. Emergencies -

   1. Should there be a personnel injury, accident, fire, environmental, or other emergency, the PIADC emergency telephone number is 2222 when
      using a Government land phone.  Cell phone users shall call the security control center at 631.323.3115 and immediately state that “this is
      an emergency”.

   2. The main PIADC facility is on an island, and marine vessels and crews may not always be immediately available extending response time for
      removal of injured persons to Orient Point.  This makes Contractor occupational safety that much more important.  The PIADC makes every
      effort to respond as quickly as possible.  There is an EMT on site at all times and an ambulance to remove medical emergencies off island
      to the local hospital.  Should the emergency occur during duty hours, the EMT or PIADC Nurse Practitioner will respond.  Workers with
      specific medical concerns should discuss them with the Plum Island Nurse Practitioner to ensure correct response in the event of an
      emergency.  Although delays are infrequent, persons requiring prescriptive medications are encouraged to have a sufficient supply in their
      possession.

   3. In an emergency affecting the safety of life, work, or property, the Contractor without special instruction or authorization from the
      Government, is authorized to act at his discretion to prevent such threatened loss or injury, and shall so act, without appeal.
      Compensation claimed by the Contractor as a result of said emergency shall be determined by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause or
      arbitration.

   4. The Contractor will also be responsible for participating in exercises and drills to test the preparedness of emergency response at PIADC.

  4. STANDARD WORK PRACTICES

   1. General Provisions –

   1. It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to assure that the Contractor’s employees and subcontractors comply with all conditions
      and restrictions noted herein.

   2. In the event of an emergency, all Contractor personnel shall comply with all biological safety safeguards and directives deemed necessary
      by the COTR, PIADC Director, and Director for Operations, Safety Officer, Incident Commander, or response personnel.

   3. The Contractor and his employees shall comply with all codes and regulations pertaining to conduct on federal property as well as PIADC
      biological, physical and environmental safety regulations.

   4. The Contractor shall abide by all applicable and standard safety practices and procedures and shall conform to all OSHA Standards.  The
      Contractor’s failure to thoroughly familiarize himself with the aforementioned safety provisions shall not relieve the Contractor from
      compliance with the obligations or relieve the Contractor from the penalties set forth therein. Neither the Government nor the COTR shall
      be responsible for safety enforcement in connection with the work

   5. The Contractor shall abide by applicable and standard, environmental protective measures to control pollution that may develop during
      construction, and other applicable federal, state, and local environmental laws. The Contractor’s failure to thoroughly familiarize himself
      with the aforementioned environmental provisions shall not relieve the Contractor from compliance with the obligations or relieve the
      Contractor from the penalties set forth therein. Neither the Government nor the COTR shall be responsible for environmental enforcement in
      connection with the work.

   6. The construction site, building area, or work-sites shall be kept in broom clean condition and free of debris at the end of each work
      shift.  Work-site material shall be neatly stored and stacked under cover or protected by water proof tarps that are adequately tied down.
      Material and equipment installed or being installed shall be protected during construction from rain, material handling, welding, grinding,
      dust, and dirt, etc.  Failure to take action on the part of the Contractor will result in a stop work order until the situation is
      corrected.

   7. Failure to comply with general safety, environmental or biological safety requirements may result in the prompt removal of personnel and
      the denial of further admittance to PIADC properties.  The Contractor shall promptly comply with PIADC requests for removal of personnel
      for violation of requirements.

   8. Plum Island is restricted to the general public unless admittance has been approved. Therefore, no persons other than authorized Contractor
      personnel will be permitted access to the work site.

   9. Prior authorization of the COTR and the PIADC Location Radiation Protection Officer is required for any radioactive material and/or
      equipment brought on site containing radioactive sources or capable of producing radiation.

  10. No dining facilities are available at Plum Island for use by the Contractor.  All food and beverages required by the Contractor are to be
      brought to Plum Island by the Contractor. There is limited “Take-Out” at the PIADC Cafeteria, but it must be authorized and restrictions
      apply.

  11. All food and beverage containers shall be properly disposed of by the Contractor’s employees into approved PIADC waste and recycling
      receptacles.  Reusable food containers may be taken off Island, but must be thoroughly washed out. Food and beverages may not be removed
      from Plum Island.

  12. The Contractor shall bring to Plum Island only those tools, equipment and materials deemed necessary for accomplishment of the work.  Such
      items shall be stored at the work site or at staging areas so designated by the COTR and shall remain at the site until job completion or
      until such time as no longer needed.

  13. Staging areas for materials and refuse will be designated by the COTR.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all movement, storage and
      security of all such items either on Plum Island properties, including the Orient Point facility.

  14. All visitors shall be accompanied by a PIADC escort while within the bio-containment facility.

  15. The Contractor shall submit a severe weather plan to the Government for review and approval.

   2. Work Outside Of Biocontainment Areas – A personal recognizant quarantine period is not required for employees, contractors or
      materials/equipment for work conducted outside of containment areas.

   3. Work in Bio-Containment Areas –

   1. Biocontainment Areas

      1. Building 101 Laboratories and Support Space: Where research is conducted on possible live animal disease agents.  Movement of
         personnel, equipment and supplies into and out of such areas or buildings is strictly controlled.  All materials and equipment leaving
         laboratory operational areas shall be subject to Government provided biological decontamination procedures specified herein or as
         otherwise directed by the COTR.


      2. Building 102 Decontamination Building:  Movement of personnel, equipment and supplies into and out of this building is strictly
         controlled.  All materials and equipment leaving this building shall be subject to Government provided biological decontamination
         procedures specified herein or as otherwise directed by the COTR.


      3. All other areas are outside of biocontainment.


   2. Biological Safety and Work Practices

      1. Contractor Personnel shall adhere to all personal recognizance quarantine requirements as specified herein or as otherwise directed by
         the Biological Safety Officer.


      2. A Personal Recognizant “self-policing” quarantine period of five (5) days is to be observed by personnel conducting work at PIADC
         within biocontainment areas (Operational Zones 2, 3, or 4 - generally referred to as “containment”) by avoiding susceptible animals or
         animal areas after departing the Island.


      3. Susceptible animals include cattle, sheep, goats, deer, and other ruminants and swine, and may also include pet birds or domestic
         poultry if directed by the PIADC Biological Safety Officer.


      4. Animal areas include animal farms, sales barns, stockyards, animal laboratories, packing houses, zoos, various menageries, pet birds,
         pet bird stores, commercial poultry establishments, and other animal exhibits such as fairs.


      5. Tools, equipment and materials, capable of being decontaminated and which need to be removed from PIADC Operational Zones 2, 3, or 4
         shall be decontaminated by Government personnel.  Some decontamination procedures may take up to 16 days and may not be appropriate for
         certain types of equipment or items (i.e., wood, porous materials). Other than eye glasses, no item(s) may be removed from
         biocontainment areas without assistance of Government personnel or their appointee.

   3. Biocontainment Requirements –

      1. PIADC employee(s), designated by the COTR, shall escort Contractor personnel at all times while within biocontainment areas. Escorted
         personnel shall remain within sight and hearing distance of the Escort at all times.  Entrance into areas other than those specifically
         designated as the Contractor’s work areas is prohibited.


      2. All personnel performing work within biocontainment (Buildings 101 and 102) areas shall be required to change into Government supplied
         clothing upon entering, and showering upon leaving the area.  Porous materials and civilian clothing worn into biocontainment areas,
         cannot be effectively decontaminated and thus shall stay in biocontainment and become the property of the Government.


   4. Coordination of Work –

   1. Contractor shall coordinate all work with the COTR.  Work shall be coordinated and scheduled well in advance with the COTR.  The schedule
      shall include pertinent dates and times and otherwise thoroughly detail all interruptions to facility services, demolition work, shipments
      of materials and equipment, etc. Work shall be planned with approval obtained from the COTR for any interruption of utility, service, or to
      any ongoing laboratory or facility operations. These events shall be held to a minimum with requests made in writing to the COTR at least
      one week prior to the interruption.

   2. Contractor shall prepare and maintain a four-week “look-ahead” schedule depicting escort requirements.

   3. All biocontainment entrances and exits for personnel, equipment and supplies are strictly controlled.  Access to air locks and autoclaves
      for movement of equipment and materials to and from biocontainment areas shall require prior scheduling, approval from the COTR, and be
      coordinated through security.

   4. Wall, floor and roof penetrations into or between containment areas shall be accomplished according to standard design details or in a
      manner acceptable to the COTR and Biological Safety Officer, and tested according to procedure.  No such work shall be made without prior
      approval of the COTR and Biological Safety Officer.

   5. The Contractor shall construct and install a temporary enclosure for penetrations as required and approved by the COTR.  Upon satisfactory
      completion and acceptance of the work, decontamination of the enclosure shall be accomplished by Government personnel.  The enclosure shall
      then be removed by the Contractor.

   5. Execution of Work –

   1. Demolished materials for removal from the laboratory shall be transported by the Contractor to a specified airlock or autoclave designated
      by the COTR.  Airlocks and autoclaves may not be operated by Contractor employees.

   2. Twenty four (24) hours prior notification shall be required for the scheduling of all airlock usage.

   3. Tool cleaning and preparation of Contractor’s tools prior to biological decontamination shall be done by Contractor personnel by a method
      determined by the Biological Safety Officer.

   6. Protection of Work, Existing Improvements, Equipment, Utilities, Antiquities, and Adjacent Property –

   1. The Contractor shall continuously maintain adequate protection of all his work from damage and shall protect Government property from
      injury or loss arising in connection with this contract.  The Contractor shall make good any such damage, injury or loss.

   2. The Contractor shall protect existing and delivered equipment from dirt, dust, moisture, and weather to the satisfaction of the COTR, and
      in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
   3.  The Contractor shall erect and properly maintain, as required by the conditions and progress of the work, all necessary safeguards for the
      protection of workers, and PIADC personnel, and shall post danger signs warning against the hazards created by such features of
      construction such as protruding nails, hoists, well holes, scaffolding, and falling materials.

   4. A welding and burning permit must be obtained through the COTR before any flame or spark producing operation is started.  The Contractor
      must post a fire watch during welding operations, and provide and erect fireproof screens for flash and spark protection.  Work must be
      performed per OSHA General Requirements as referenced in 29 CFR 1910.252 and using the Standard for Fire Prevention in Use of Cutting and
      Welding Processes, NFPA Standard 51B,1962.

   5. The Contractor is responsible for locating all underground utilities prior to digging, including but not limited to pipes, electrical
      cables, conduit, and duct banks, etc. If the Contractor has insufficient capability to perform this service, the Contractor shall obtain
      the services of an underground utility locating company for this purpose. The Contractor shall mark proposed locations for all digging and
      trenching/underground work and coordinate with PIADC Engineering for determination of potential underground utilities at least 5 work days
      prior to the planned start of the digging and trenching/underground work. The Contractor shall hand dig within close proximity of a
      suspected underground utility and not rely solely on utility mark-outs or drawings (if any). The Contractor shall be responsible for damage
      to the underground utilities, or damage caused as a result thereof (e.g., breaking fuel line and causing an environmental hazard), whether
      or not shown on the drawings.  If a utility is damaged, the PIADC Facility Engineer shall be immediately notified.  Repairs shall be made
      quickly and by competent qualified trades’ persons to the satisfaction of the Government. If the Contractor fails or refuses to repair the
      damage promptly, PIADC may have the necessary work performed and charge the cost to the Contractor.

   6. Federal law provides for the protection of antiquities located on land owned or controlled by the Government.  Antiquities include but not
      limited to Indian graves or campsites, relics and artifacts. Existing antiquities discovered thereon will not be disturbed or destroyed.
      The Contractor shall report the discovery of any antiquities at the job site and, upon discovery of unusual materials (e.g. obsidian chips
      or flakes, bones, darkly stained soils, "arrowheads"), the Contractor shall stop work at/or around such materials and notify the Facility
      Engineer.

  5. MARINE TRANSPORTATION

   1. Government Furnished Marine Transportation - Marine transportation for personnel between Plum Island and Orient Point, New York, and
      between Plum Island and Old Saybrook, Connecticut, is conducted using Government-operated ferries, unless, in the exceptional cases, other
      transportation to and from Plum Island is approved in advance by the Government.  Schedules are established in advance and closely
      followed.  For dates and times of ferries, please see the Plum Island Ferry Schedule (attached).  On occasion, weather conditions may limit
      or prevent routine ferry operation and affect the project schedule.  The Government shall have the right to cancel or reschedule marine
      transportation for the contractor at no additional cost to the Government.  The Government also shall have the right to reject a specific
      date requested by the Contractor and require the Contractor to select another date at no additional cost to the Government.

   1. General

      1. Subject to marine vessel capacity, conditions, availability, and scheduling constraints as defined below, Government Furnished Marine
         Transportation will be available to the Contractor at no cost for the transportation of Contractor personnel, tools, material, and
         equipment to and from Plum Island, Orient Point, and Old Saybrook facilities.


      2. Government marine transportation consists of one 110’ passenger vessel, one 110’ freight vessel, and one 120’ freight vessel.


      3. Government vessels are maintained and operated to support the research mission at PIADC and therefore, the movement of Government
         employees and materials shall have priority.  The transport of scheduled freight may be delayed or canceled due to unforeseen PIADC
         requirements.


      4. The Government will provide marine transportation to the Contractor of at least ONE round trip per week for materials, equipment,
         supplies, and vehicles. Weight and size restrictions will vary in accordance with the marine transportation available at the time such
         transportation is scheduled to take place as referenced below. Such trips shall not be cumulative and may not be carried over or
         combined with any other period. Depending on the scope of the project, additional trips will be provided as possible and as determined
         by the COTR and the PIADC Marine Transportation Department.


      5. Other than personnel, the Contractor shall schedule all marine transportation at least two weeks prior to the date required unless
         otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. The available space will be scheduled on a first come first served basis. The
         Government shall have the right, upon one week prior notice to the Contractor, to cancel or reschedule marine transportation for the
         Contractor at No Additional Cost to the Government. The Government shall also have the right to reject a specific date requested by the
         Contractor and require the Contractor to select another date at No Additional Cost to the Government.  Reservations may be made by
         contacting the COTR between the hours of 0900 to 1600.


      6. There is no Government furnished marine transportation for vehicles or freight to or from Old Saybrook, Connecticut.


      7. Departures may be delayed or canceled due to unforeseen PIADC requirements, weather, or sea conditions.  Loading and transporting of
         vehicles with low undercarriages or dolly wheels may be delayed or canceled due to low or high tides, especially when combined with the
         weight of the load. When governed by issues of unforeseen PIADC requirements, weather, sea conditions, or personnel safety and health,
         the decision of the PIADC Transportation Manager be considered to be in accordance with the requirement of this contract and, as such,
         the Government will provide a “no cost” time extension only, as relief to the Contractor for any delays due to rescheduling that are
         determined to be a direct result of the PIADC Transportation Manager’s decision. Determination of the appropriate number of additional
         days for such delay shall be the decision of the Contracting Officer, based on supporting documentation provided by the Contractor.


      8. The vessel Captain, or designated representative, shall oversee the proper loading and weight distribution of vehicles and cargo aboard
         the vessel.  The Contractor shall perform all physical labor in connection with the actual loading and unloading of freight and
         equipment.  All freight shall board and leave the vessel under its own motive power or motive power furnished by the Contractor.


   2. The following are the restrictions and rated capacity of the Government vessels:

      1. JJ Callis, freight vessel:
             • Vehicle overall length shall not exceed 45 feet.
             • Maximum vehicle gross weight shall not exceed twenty (20) tons, (40,000 pounds) with a center of gravity not to exceed four (4)
               feet above the cargo deck.
             • Deck loading shall not exceed thirty (30) tons (60,000 pounds).


      2. MV Plum Island, freight vessel:
            • Vehicle overall length shall not exceed 45 feet.
            • Maximum vehicle gross weight shall not exceed fifty (50) tons, (100,000 pounds) with a center of gravity not to exceed four (4)
              feet above the cargo deck.
            • Deck loading shall not exceed fifty (50) tons (100,000 pounds).


      3. MS Shahan, passenger and emergency vehicle vessel:
            • Vehicle overall length shall not exceed 20 feet.
            • Maximum vehicle gross weight shall not exceed four (4) tons, (8,000 pounds) with a center of gravity not to exceed four (4) feet
              above the vehicle deck.


   3. Other Restrictions:

      1. All vehicles shall have their loads properly distributed and secured so as to assure proper trim of the vessel.
      2. All vehicles shall be secured to the cargo deck during transit.
      3. Personnel may not remain in vehicles during transit.
      4. Vehicle weights over the maximum allowable shall be lightened at Orient Point before loading by the Contractor.
      5. Contractor employees shall at all times, conduct themselves in a safe, orderly manner while aboard marine vessels and shall comply with
         all instructions set forth by the Captain, crew and shore personnel.
      6. Flammable and combustible cargoes may require additional scheduling lead time.  The passenger capacity is also greatly reduced.
      7. The Contractor shall provide documentation of gross vehicle or freight weight when scheduling the vessel, and prior to loading the
         marine vessel.

   2. Other Marine Transportation

   1. In the event the Contractor cannot coordinate the moving of personnel under these conditions or restrictions so forth stated, or if loads
      exceed limits as specified herein, the Contractor shall provide his own transportation.  If the Contractor requires the use of Government
      harbors, the Government vessels have docking priority in accordance with present posted schedules.  Full coordination between the
      Contractor and Government marine crews is required for harbor use.

   2. U.S. Coast Guard approved commercial vessels can only be used to move personnel and materials to and from Plum Island.  Vessels (ferries
      and barges) other than the Government vessels, if construction related and approved by Security and the COTR, can be docked in the Plum
      Island and Orient Point Harbors as long as these vessels and their operations, do not interfere with Government harbor operations.  No
      private or recreational vessels will be allowed to dock at either Orient Point or Plum Island Harbors. Landings at any areas or beaches on
      Plum Island or the Orient Point facility are strictly prohibited

   3. Contracted marine water transportation from a local ferry company for other marine transportation is available.  The local ferry may be
      able to provide a full time vessel or part time service depending on the requirement of the job.  These ferry vessels have much greater
      weight carrying capacity and can accommodate most any size road vehicle or heavy equipment.

   4. Commercial boats shall not be allowed to use the Government owned Orient Point Facility for loading or unloading.

   5. Commercial vessels are constrained by the capability, configuration, and size of the PIADC ramps. It is the Contractor’s responsibility to
      insure the vessel is compatible with PIADC ramps. Crane loading and unloading from or to a barge is acceptable where necessary.  Beach
      loading or unloading from a landing craft is unacceptable.
1.7   CONTRACTOR PARKING

1.7.1 Parking of Contractor vehicles (to include that of its workers) at Orient Point, New York shall be restricted to the parking spaces
designated for DHS PIADC personnel vehicles.  Parking at Old Saybrook, CT must be arranged by the Contractor and not impact those parking spaces
designated for DHS PIADC personnel vehicles.

1.8   TRANSPORTATION AND USE OF CONTRACTOR VEHICLES ON PLUM ISLAND

1.8.1 Requests for the transportation of Contractor vehicles and the use of such vehicles must be submitted in writing to the Contracting
Officer and the COTR and are pending Government approval.  Such requests, among other rationale, must identify a justifiable need and/or benefit
to the Government.  Upon request, the COTR will provide the Contractor with specific information regarding the use of Contractor vehicles on
Plum Island.

1.9   TRANSPORTATION, HANDLING, AND STORAGE

1.9.1 The Contractor shall coordinate with suppliers and shippers to ensure that incoming materials are properly identified with the
Contractor’s name, contract number and project title.  The Contractor shall designate an authorized individual to be available to receive
shipment.  Unless agreed to and organized by the COTR, the Government will not provide storage other than that available at the project site.

1.9.2 Transportation Facilities.  The Contractor shall conduct an investigation of the conditions of public and private pads, clearances,
restrictions, load limits and of the limitations affecting transportation and ingress and egress at the jobsite. The unavailability of
transportation facilities or limitations thereon shall not become a basis for claims for damage or extension of time for completion of the work.

1.9.3 Use of Existing Roads as Haul Routes.  The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating with the Local authorities for use of any
existing roads as haul routes. Construction, and routing of new haul roads, and/or upgrading of existing roads to carry anticipated construction
traffic shall be coordinated with the Local authorities and is the sole responsibility of the Contractor.

1.9.4 Storage of supplies, materials and equipment on the project site shall be accomplished in such a manner so as to prevent mechanical and
climatic damage and loss due to vandalism or theft.

1.9.4.4     Furthermore, the Contractor shall:

        1. Store products in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions, with seals and labels intact and legible;
        2. Store products subject to damage by the elements in weather-tight enclosures;
        3. Maintain temperature and humidity within the ranges required by manufacturer's instructions;
        4. Store fabricated products above the ground, on blocking or skids; prevent soiling or staining, cover products, which are subject to
           deterioration with impervious sheet coverings; and provide adequate ventilation to avoid condensation;
        5. Store loose granular materials in a well-drained area on solid surfaces to prevent mixing with foreign matter; and
        6. Storage in a manner to provide easy access for inspection. Make periodic inspections of stored products to assure that products are
           maintained under specified conditions and free from damage or deterioration.

1.9.5 Equipment on the Site.  Equipment and furnishings shall remain in place within the area of contract operations and shall be covered and
protected against damage or loss.  Equipment that is removed in performance of work under the contract shall be stored on the premises where
directed, or shall be reused in work as required by drawings and specifications.  Equipment removed temporarily shall be protected, cleaned, and
replaced in the same condition it was received.  Security for equipment or material that is to be reused for temporary storage shall be the sole
responsibility of the Contractor.

1.9.5.1     Equipment temporarily removed in the performance of work and stored on the job site shall be stored and protected in accordance with
previous paragraphs, and shall be replaced in a condition compatible with its original state.  Security for equipment and material removed from
the job site for temporary storage until reuse shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.

1.9.5.2     The Contractor shall provide a secure storage area for trailers and materials.  Fence posts may be driven, in lieu of concrete
bases, where soil conditions permit.  Trailers, materials, or equipment shall not be placed or stored outside the secured area unless approved.
The Contractor will be responsible for maintenance of its trailers as well as items located within the trailers.

1.10  CONTRACTOR'S MOBILIZATION AREA

1.10.1      The Contractor will be permitted to use a designated area for operation of construction equipment and limited uses.  On completion
of the contract, all vehicles, equipment, supplies, etc. shall be removed from the mobilization area by the Contractor.  The site shall be
cleared of construction debris and other materials and the area restored to its original condition.  The Contractor’s temporary facilities
within their mobilization area, if any, shall be of substantial construction suitable for the local weather conditions and meet the Occupational
Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) standards as stated in 29 CFR OSHA 1926.

1.11  WORKING HOURS

1.11.1      Normal Work Hours

1.11.1.1    Work shall be performed during a normal 40 hour week, Monday through Friday, with core hours from 6:00 am and 6:00 pm EST.
Contractors shall adhere to these working hours unless other work hours are stipulated in the contract documents, or approved at the request of
the Contractor by the CO, or as directed by the CO.

1.11.1.2    All or a portion of the effort under this contract will be performed on a Government Installation. The normal workweek will be
established by the contract. No deviation in the normal established workweek will be permitted without express advance approval in writing by
the CO.  In the event that the Contractor fails to observe the established workweek, any costs incurred by the Government resulting there from
shall be chargeable to the Contractor

1.11.2      Holidays

1.11.2.1    On federal holidays, the PIADC is normally closed.  If work on holidays must be performed, the Contractor must make arrangements
with the COTR prior to the holiday. Continuity of operations during normal holiday and vacation time is not required, unless otherwise specified
by PIADC.

1.11.2.2    Federal holidays are as follows:

       NAME OF HOLIDAY                  TYPICAL TIME OF OBSERVANCE
       New Years Day                          1 January
       Martin Luther King Jr. Day                   Third Monday in January
       Presidents Day                         Third Monday in February
       Memorial Day                           Last Monday in May
       Independence Day                             4 July
       Labor Day                              First Monday in September
       Columbus Day                           Second Monday in October
       Veterans Day                                 11 November
       Thanksgiving Day                             Fourth Thursday in November
       Christmas Day                          25 December

1.11.2.3    Any other day designated by federal statute, Executive Order, or Presidential Proclamation.

1.11.2.4    Contractor personnel performing work under this contract shall limit their observation of holidays to those set forth above, and as
observed by the Government employees at PIADC.

1.11.2.5    In the event Contractor personnel work during a holiday other than those above, no form of holiday or other premium compensation
will be reimbursed as either a direct or indirect cost.  However, this does not preclude reimbursement for authorized overtime work.

1.11.2.6    The Contractor is permitted to work non-duty hours or federal holidays as approved by the Contracting Officer.  However, written
approval must be obtained a minimum of 48 hours in advance of such scheduled work, and a PIADC representative must be available to be on site.
During these periods of work, no work shall be concealed in construction without the approval of the Contracting Officer.  The Contractor will
be required to pay for any Government inspector which must be at the site during performance of this work.

1.12  GOVERNMENT FURNISHED SUPPORT

1.12.1      The Contractor, in the performance of the contract, is authorized to use, within reason and at no charge to the Contractor, the
Government-owned facilities as identified below:
    • Water;
    • Electricity;
    • Telephone service on an as-needed basis;
    • Space for storage of materials and equipment as specified by the COTR; and
    • Elevator use.

1.12.2      Utilities:  The Government will typically provide two telephone lines, limited water and electrical service required for the
contract where possible.  Electric power is typically available at 120/240/1/60, with 480/3/60 available in machinery areas.  The Contractor
will be responsible for the installation and removal of the connections, including material, labor, and supervision for installation.

1.12.3      Note on elevator usage:  Any temporary use of an existing elevator shall be by arrangement with the COTR and subject to his
controls.  Suitable and adequate protective covering for the elevator machinery, the hatchway entrances, and the interior of the elevator shall
be provided during the period of temporary use.  Loads in excess of the rated capacity of the elevator will not be permitted. The Government
will bear the cost of electric current for the operation of the elevator. On completion of the work, the Contractor shall remove the protective
coverings together with any resultant dirt and debris, and leave the equipment in its original condition.

1.12.3      In addition, the Contractor, at the Contractor’s own expense, patron the DHS PIADC cafeteria during the cafeteria’s normal hours of
operation.

1.12.4      Vehicles:  Government vehicles will not be provided for Contractor use.

1.13  MOVEABLE FIXTURES

1.13.1      Moveable furniture and equipment shall remain the property of the Government and be re-located as required or stored where directed.

1.14  CONTRACTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT

1.14.1      Loading and Unloading:  All Contractor personnel, vehicles, equipment and materials shall be moved by the Contractor from the dock
area to the work site.  Loading and unloading of materials, vehicle and equipment on or off the Government boat shall be by Contractor
personnel.

1.14.2      Movement On and Off Plum Island:  Vehicles or equipment transported to Plum Island shall remain on the Island until all project work
requiring its use is finished.  No daily movement of vehicles or equipment on and off Plum Island is permitted.

1.14.3      On-Island Vehicle Requirements:  All vehicles brought to the Island shall be state registered and insured, have a valid inspection
sticker, and be maintained in good repair.

1.14.4      Vehicle and Equipment Fuel:  Limited amounts of fuel oil and gasoline may be available to the Contractor on a replacement in like
kind basis, subject to prior approval of the Contracting Officer and PIADC Engineering.

1.15  ENVIRONMENTAL

1.15.1      Fuel Tanks:   Fuel tanks for job site use shall be double walled or have containment approved by the State governing agency.

1.15.2      Fuel and Oil Spills:   Oil and fuel leaks or spills must be IMMEDIATELY reported to the PIADC Control Room by calling extension 2222
from any PIADC phone, no later than 15 minutes following the event.

1.15.3      Vehicle or Equipment Leaks:  Vehicles or equipment that develop a leak shall be shut down and repaired before moving.  Leaks or
spills shall be cleaned up by the Contractor at the Contractor’s expense and in accordance with all New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation (NYSDEC) requirements.

1.15.4      Debris Removal:   The Contractor is responsible for removal and off-island disposal of all trees, brush, demolition material,
construction debris, project derived waste, hazardous or otherwise, generated by the Contractor or the Contractor’s subcontractors. All waste
shall be properly stored while on Plum Island, removed to Orient Point, and subsequently removed from Orient Point and disposed of at
appropriately permitted facility under proper manifest. Topsoil and clean fill material shall remain on Plum Island in a location designated by
the COTR and as approved by the Environmental Protection Specialist.

1.15.5      Use of Environmentally Friendly Projects:  Where practical and with the prior approval of the COTR, Contractor shall make every
effort to utilize environmentally friendly materials in the performance of this contract. All Contractor procurements will meet the requirements
of Executive Order (E.O.) 13423 – Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management as well as EO 13514 – Federal
Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance.

1.15.6      Environmental Impacts and Aspects:  All waste materials generated by any work under the contract performed on a Government
installation shall at all times be handled, transported, stored, and disposed of by the Contractor and by his subcontractors in accordance with
all applicable federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, regulations, court orders, and other types of rulings having the effect of the law,
including, but not limited to Executive Order 12088, 13 October 1978, Federal Compliance with Pollution Control Standards; the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 ET SEQ); the Clean Air Act as amended (42 U.S.C. Sec 7401 ET SEQ); the Endangered Species Act,
as amended (16 U.S.C. Sec 1531, ET SEQ); the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. Sec 2601, ET SEQ); the National Historic
Preservation Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. Sec 470, ET SEQ); the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6901 ET SEQ); and the
Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. Sec 469, ET SEQ), as well as the applicable New York State and local
requirements.  Should the United States Government be held liable for any neglect or improper actions by the Contractor or any subcontractor
regarding removal or disposal of any hazardous waste, the Contractor shall reimburse the Government for all such liability.

1.15.6.1    Contractor shall identify foreseeable environmental impacts prior to the initiation of work. Aspects to be considered include: waste
generation (hazardous, non-hazardous, radioactive, medical, and mixed) liquid discharge, chemical storage and use, water consumption, power
consumption, fuel (use and transfer), animal habitat disruption, use of pesticides/herbicides/rodentcides, animal control, painting, grounds
maintenance, and other construction related items. The Contractor will work with the COTR and the PIADC Environmental Protection Specialist to
complete an Environmental Aspects and Impacts evaluation prior to the initiation of work. Mitigating measures will be proposed for items that
have a potential to impact the environment.

1.15.7      Hazardous Materials:  If hazardous material is to be used or stored by the Contractor on PIADC property, the Contractor shall
provide the following information to the COTR in accordance with the Contractor’s written and PIADC approved site-specific HASP:

1.15.7.1    A copy of the MSDS for each hazardous material (HM) used or stored at PIADC.  (In addition, Contractors must ensure that MSDS are
readily available either in hardcopy or electronic media (i.e. CD ROM) in a central location in the workplace

1.15.7.2    The precautionary measures implemented to protect personnel using HM

1.15.7.3    The labeling system used by the Contractor.  (The labeling system must meet the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200 and 29 CFR
1910.1450)

1.15.7.4    The procedures used to evaluate personnel exposure

1.15.7.5    An inventory (initial and updated annually, thereafter) of all HM used or stored at PIADC. The inventory must include the location
(building and room) of storage, quantity at PIADC, chemical name, manufacturer, MSDS unique identifier, and a point of contact

1.15.7.6    Upon completion of the job, all Contractor HM must be completely removed from PIADC.  Failure to do so will result in the Government
disposing the material, and deducting supervision, engineering, labor, permit, material, and disposal fees from retainage funds

1.16  FIRE SAFETY

1.16.1      Every precaution shall be taken by the Contractor to prevent fire by any cause.  The COTR will assign space for the storage of
materials and equipment.  The materials shall be kept in the space assigned.  The Contractor shall provide suitable metal receptacles with lids
outside the building in which they shall place all flammable and combustible material at the close of each workday.  When the Contractor is
working above ground floor in a multi-story building, they may put into place at their own expense a locker for flammable
goods/products/materials on the floor where the work is to be done.  All flammables will be placed in this locker at the close of each workday
and the locker shall be locked.

1.16.2      Fire protection or alarm systems shall be protected and maintained at all times.  Where alteration work requires temporary
interruptions of fire protection or alarm systems, prior approval shall be secured from the COTR and shut down time shall be as short as
possible.

1.16.3      Notwithstanding the complexities of this effort described in the Statement of Work herein, the Contractor shall work with PIADC
personnel to minimize the interruption of ongoing laboratory and facility operations.  Likewise, the Contractor shall coordinate and schedule
all fire alarm outages with the PIADC Fire Chief or his designated representative.  At any time that the existing fire suppression system or the
alarm system is to be taken out of service, in areas other than the immediate work area, the Contractor shall provide the PIADC Fire Chief with
written notice at least three (3) business days in advance.  The Contractor shall accommodate for fire protection of each room and its
corresponding equipment and personnel during demolition, installation, and testing.  Furthermore, as clarification, the Contractor will be able
to use electric power supplied by the Government.

1.16.4      General:  The following are minimum requirements for working on Plum Island.  Additional requirements may be applied for specific
projects.  The specific requirements will be included with the project technical specifications.

1.16.4.1    Emergency Service Access: Maintain free and unobstructed access to facility emergency services and for fire, police and other
emergency response forces in accordance with NFPA 241.

1.16.4.2    Temporary Heating and Electrical: Install, use and maintain installations in accordance with 29 CFR 1926, NFPA 241 and NFPA 70.

1.16.4.3    Means of Egress: Do not block exiting for occupied buildings, including paths from exits to roads. Minimize disruptions and
coordinate with facility Safety Officer.  Maintain free and unobstructed routes of egress for Construction Workers.

1.16.4.4    Fire Extinguishers: Provide and maintain extinguishers in construction areas and temporary storage areas in accordance with 29 CFR
1926, NFPA 241 and NFPA 10.

1.16.4.5    Flammable and Combustible Liquids: Store, dispense and use liquids in accordance with 29 CFR 1926, NFPA 241 and NFPA 30.

1.16.4.6    Existing Fire Protection:

1.16.4.7    Do not impair automatic sprinklers, smoke and heat detection, and fire alarm systems, except for portions immediately under
construction as part of approved project work

1.16.4.8    All project work on existing fire projection systems must be reviewed and approved in writing by the PIADC Fire Chief or a
designated representative prior to starting work

1.16.4.9    The execution of all approved work on existing fire projection system shall be supervised by the PIADC Fire Chief or a designated
representative

1.16.4.10   Prevent accidental operation of the existing fire protection system at all times

1.16.4.11   Smoking: Smoking is prohibited except in designated smoking rest areas.

1.16.4.12   Applicable Publications: Publications listed below form part of the Plum Island requirements for all contractor work to extent
referenced. Publications are referenced in text by basic designations only.

1.16.4.12.1 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA):
1.16.4.12.2 10-2006    Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers
1.16.4.12.3 30-2003    Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
1.16.4.12.4 51B-2003   Standard for Fire Prevention During Welding, Cutting and Other Hot Work
1.16.4.12.5 70-2005    National Electrical Code
1.16.4.12.6 241-2004   Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration, and Demolition Operations


1.16.4.12.7 Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA):
1.16.4.12.8 29 CFR 1926      Safety and Health Regulations for Construction

1.17  Restoration

1.17.1      Damages:  At Contractor's own expense, Contractor shall immediately restore to service and repair any damage caused by Contractor's
workmen to existing PIADC property, grounds, facilities, buildings, furnishings, equipment, utility services, piping, conduits, wires, cables,
fire protection systems, communications systems (including telephone) or other PIADC property as determined by the Contracting Officer which are
not scheduled for discontinuance or abandonment as part of project specific work.

1.18  CAD STANDARDS

1.18.1      General:  Drawing files submitted to Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC) shall conform to the A/E/C CAD Standard (release 3.0,
September 2006; ERDC/ITL TR-06-X). A complete copy of the A/E/C CAD Standards document is available for download at:
https://cadbim.usace.army.mil/CAD  (Adobe PDF viewer required).

1.18.2      PIADC Specific: Supplemental to the National CAD Standards, the following shall be used as a general guide for all drawings.

1.18.2.1    All drawings shall be produced using an AutoCAD compatible (i.e. “.dwg” file) computer program, no later than release 2004.


1.18.2.2    All drawings shall have a file naming convention that conforms to the A/E/C CAD Standard as described on pages 11-23 of the “Main
Text”.  This convention allows for a “project code designator” at the front of the file, the designator for this file shall be furnished by
PIADC and followed by the remainder of the filename as defined in the above referenced section (please note that the last 4 characters of the
filename are “user defined”).  The only exception to this policy shall be that x-ref files shall have and underscore (“_”) preceding the
filename.


1.18.2.3    All physical structures to be built shall be drawn in “Model Space” at a scale of 1 to 1.  During drawing submission, please
indicate whether the drawing was produced using feet or inches as the base unit.


1.18.2.4    All drawing sheet sizes will measure 34”x 22” when plotted at full scale.  All title-blocks shall be based upon _PIADC-BS-TBLK.dwg
file (provide by PIADC).  The title-block shall be inserted in “Paper Space” at co-ordinates 0,0.  Contractor may place their individual
corporate logo in the space provided only.


1.18.2.5    Layer names shall be prefaced with a letter designating what part of design discipline they represent and according to the
convention specified within the A/E/C CAD Standard (see section 4 of the Main Text and appendices A & B).  Subsequent Naming of Layers shall be
descriptive in nature and also conform to the A/E/C CAD Standards.  Example: an interior wall shown for a lab space would be placed on a layer
named:   A-WALL-INT (“A” indicates an architectural element, “WALL” describes what is contained on the layer, and “INT” further describes the
element.


1.18.2.6    All drawing notes, dimensions, leaders, schedules, or other general text will be placed in “Paper Space” using the following
guidelines:
1.18.2.6.1  All main titles (not within title-block) shall be .25” high, “Roman” font, underlined within text field (i.e. not a line drawn under
the text), and the color shall be set to pen # 8
1.18.2.6.2  All sub-titles shall be .18” high, “Roman” font, underlined within text field, and the color shall be set to pen # 8
1.18.2.6.3  All other text (general text, notes, dimensions, leaders, etc.) shall be .12” high, “Romans” font, underlined within text field, and
the color shall be set to pen # 7
1.18.2.6.4  Leader Arrows shall be set to a length of 0.12”

1.18.2.7    The pen/line weights shall be color dependent and controlled using layers.   All polyline widths shall be set to “zero”.  All colors
used within the drawing shall be set to “bylayer” and controlled through the “layer-manager” built into AutoCAD.  Line weights shall be assigned
within the drawing by setting the layer color to the appropriate corresponding pen weight, as shown in the following table.  (Note:  all pens
shall be set to the color black with the exception of color 10 which will plot as red, and all drawings shall be plotted in black & white for
easier reproduction.  The color 10 shall be used for internal drawing submission/corrections only; i.e. mark-up copies and not released as part
of the final drawing set).

|AutoCAD Pen Settings                                                                                   |
|Color / Pen #                    |Pen Weight (inches)               |Plot Color                        |
|Red                              |.0120                             |Black                             |
|Yellow                           |.0080                             |Black                             |
|Green                            |.0120                             |Black                             |
|Cyan                             |.0200                             |Black                             |
|Blue                             |.0150                             |Black                             |
|Magenta                          |.0060                             |Black                             |
|White/Black                      |.0100                             |Black                             |
|8                                |.0180                             |Black                             |
|9                                |.0001                             |Black                             |
|10                               |.0080                             |Object Color (red)                |
|11-40                            |.0080                             |Black                             |
|41                               |.0001                             |Black                             |
|42-169                           |.0080                             |Black                             |
|170                              |.0001                             |Black                             |
|171-249                          |.0080                             |Black                             |
|250-255                          |.0080                             |Object Color (grayscale)          |


         These pen settings will be controlled using an AutoCAD CTB - color dependant plot-style table (PIADC.ctb, provided by PIADC).    NOTE:
         PENS 171-249 ARE RESERVED AND TO BE CHANGED ONLY WITH PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL FROM PIADC; ALL OTHERS MUST REMAIN AS LISTED.  If any
         changes are authorized the Contractor must supply the updated pen file to PIADC

1.18.2.8    When calling out details, sections, or references to other sheets in the drawing package, all symbols must follow the National CAD
Standards guidelines using the following procedure:
1.18.2.8.1  The number or letter in the top portion of the detail symbol must only be used once within a specific discipline (i.e. there must
only be one “Detail A” within the civil package, however a single standard detail may be referenced on more than one sheet).
1.18.2.8.2  The descriptor in the bottom half of the symbol shall refer either to the sheet that on which detail or section of the condition is
drawn or the sheet that the detail or section refers to (i.e. the drawings and details shall cross-reference each other).

1.18.2.9    USE OF CUSTOM LINE-TYPES IS RESTRICTED- Line-types shall be limited to the default line-types packaged within the AutoCAD software
bundle UNLESS APPROVED PRIOR TO SUBMITTAL by PIADC.  Any line-types that are created and submitted to PIADC as part of a drawing package
submittal, must also be submitted to PIADC in electronic form (i.e. *.lin file) for PIADC use and distribution to other agencies and/or sub-
contractors.

1.18.2.10   DO NOT USE CUSTOM FONTS/SHAPE FILES- Fonts shall be limited to the fonts/sizes listed within this document; no non-standard shape
files shall be used.

1.18.2.11   Images may be inserted into the drawing, however, please bear in mind that the drawings will be plotted in black & white and will be
reproduced using standard black & white copier technology, therefore allowance must be made for degradation of the photo quality.

1.18.2.12   When Survey data is collected, all files used in the generation of the survey plan (e.g., digital terrain model) must be submitted
under separate cover.  (Note: these are considered “working” data files, and as such are not required to follow the National CAD Standards
naming parameters; all other submittals are still subject to the National CAD Standards).

1.19  AS BUILT DRAWINGS

1.19.1      General: Where applicable based on project specific work, the Contractor shall maintain two full size sets of as-built drawings
which will be kept current during construction of the project, to include all contract changes, modifications and clarifications. All variations
shall be shown in the same general detail as used in the contract drawings.  To insure compliance, as-built drawings shall be made available for
the Contracting Officer’s review, as often as requested.
1.19.2      Contract Close Out:  Contractor shall deliver two approved completed sets of as-built drawings to the Contracting Officer within 15
calendar days after each completed phase and/or after the acceptance of the project by the Contracting Officer as stated in the project specific
contract documents.

1.20  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

1.20.1      The Government will typically provide two telephone lines and one computer line. (commercial computer service to be paid by the
Contractor).  The Contractor is to coordinate for the following:
1.20.1.1    The PIADC DHS IT Staff is to be given 2 weeks notice of the arrival date of the Contractor and for the approximate length of time
that they will be on site.
1.20.1.2    The Contractor is to submit what type and quantity of IT support they will need (i.e. 2 phones, 1 fax, 6 pc drops, 1 printer and 0
radios)
1.20.1.3    Provide the Government the amount of work space that will be needed.
1.20.1.4    Provide the need to access to certain locations.
1.20.2      After arrival and check in, all PC’s that are expected to be on the network must be brought to the DHS ISSO and turned over for
initial scanning and inspection. Scan and inspections will consist of looking for patches, updates, antivirus, peer to peer software, and
prohibited software.  PCs are to be given back with a pass or fail rating.  Only passed PC’s will be allowed network access.
1.20.2.1    All personnel who will have network access will take the IT Security (Cyber Security) Training and sign the Rules of Behavior.
(approximately 15-30 min).
1.20.2.2    When Cyber Security training is completed the DHS ISSO will contact the DHS IT Staff and notify them that the individuals have
completed their training and network access could be granted.
1.20.2.3    Only individuals who have properly received training shall be granted access to the internet, but shall not be granted access to the
PIADC network drives or shares.
1.20.2.4    As stated in the training and in the Rules of Behavior, they will be subject to random PC inspections and scans.
1.20.2.5    All personnel who are granted access to the network fall under the same rules and regulations as all DHS / ARS employees.  In the
event that these policies and procedures are not followed, the Contractor can be held to lawful actions.  This is also stated in the Cyber
Security Training as well as the Rules of Behavior.

1.21  CONTRACTOR STAFF AND EMPLOYEES

1.21.1      Prior to commencing on-site construction, the Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer with a telephone number and fax
number at which the Contractor or his representative may be contacted at any time during regular working hours and an emergency number at which
the Contractor may be contacted in situations requiring immediate attention.

1.21.2      Contractor’s Employees.  All work under this contract shall be performed in a skillful and workmanlike manner.  The Contracting
Officer may, in writing, require the Contractor to remove from the job site, any employee the Contracting Officer deems incompetent, careless or
otherwise objectionable.  If subcontracting work, the Contractor must complete and submit the Standard Form (SF) Form 1413, Statement of
Acknowledgement within five (5) calendar days of award.

1.22  SUPERVISION OF CONTRACTOR'S EMPLOYEES

1.22.1      The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor employees performing services under this contract;
such employees shall be accountable not to the Government, but solely to the Contractor, who in turn is responsible to the Government.

1.22.2      Personnel assigned to render services under this contract shall at all times be employees of the Contractor and under the direction
and control of the Contractor.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract, the Contractor shall at all times be responsible for the
supervision of its employees in the performance of the services required hereunder.

1.22.3      During all times on Government premises, the Contractor's personnel shall comply with the rules and regulations governing conduct of
personnel and operation of the facility.

1.23  NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF DELAYS

1.23.1      In the event the Contractor encounters difficulty in meeting performance requirements, or when the Contractor anticipates difficulty
in complying with the contract delivery schedule or date, or whenever the Contractor has knowledge that any actual or potential situation is
delaying or threatens to delay the timely performance of this contract, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer and the
COTR, in writing, giving pertinent details.

1.24  INSURANCE COVERAGE

       1.24.1     In accordance with FAR 28.307-2 – Liability, the following minimum coverage is required:


1.24.1.1    Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability. Contractors are required to comply with applicable Federal and State workers’
    compensation and occupational disease statutes.  If occupational diseases are not compensable under those statutes, they shall be covered
    under the employer’s liability section of the insurance policy, except when contract operations are so commingled with a contractor’s
    commercial operations that it would not be practical to require this coverage.  Employer’s liability coverage of at least $100,000.00 shall
    be required, except in States with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers’ compensation to be written by private
    carriers.  (See 28.305(c) for treatment of contracts subject to the Defense Base Act.)

1.24.1.2    General Liability.
1.24.1.2.1  The contracting officer shall require bodily injury liability insurance coverage written on the comprehensive form of policy of at
least $500,000.00 per occurrence.
1.24.1.2.2  Property damage liability insurance shall be required only in special circumstances as determined by the agency.


1.24.1.3    Automobile Liability. The contracting officer shall require automobile liability insurance written on the comprehensive form of
    policy. The policy shall provide for bodily injury and property damage liability covering the operation of all automobiles used in
    connection with performing the contract. Policies covering automobiles operated in the United States shall provide coverage of at least
    $200,000.00 per person and $500,000.00 per occurrence for bodily injury and $20,000.00 per occurrence for property damage. The amount of
    liability coverage on other policies shall be commensurate with any legal requirements of the locality and sufficient to meet normal and
    customary claims.

1.25  ADVERTISEMENTS, PUBLICIZING AWARDS, AND NEWS RELEASES

1.25.1      All press releases or announcements about agency programs, projects, and contract awards need to be cleared by the Program Office
and the Contracting Officer.  Under no circumstances shall the Contractor, or anyone acting on behalf of the Contractor, refer to the supplies,
services, or equipment furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any publicity news release or commercial advertising without
first obtaining explicit written consent to do so from the Program Office and the Contracting Officer.

1.25.2      The Contractor agrees not to refer to awards in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or
service provided is endorsed or preferred by the Federal Government or is considered by the Government to be superior to other products or
services.

TE-ONE TECHNICAL EXHIBIT ONE (1) ­ Map

TE-TWO TECHNICAL EXHIBIT TWO (2) ­ FACILITES LISTING BUILDINGS IN USE: Bldg. No. 1 2 3 5 13 26 35 38 47 59 67 100 101 102 103 105 106 107 108 109 110 256 258 W LTH Description Administration, Orient Point Receiving Garage, Orient Point Warehouse, Orient Point Electrical Breaker House, Orient Point Orient Point Guard House Fire Station Electrical Substation Dock Guardhouse Motor Pool Duty Officer's Quarters Well Pumphouse Dock Warehouse, Storage Administrative Laboratory Sewage Decontamination Building Power Plant Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) WWTP Blower Building Chiller Building 408V Switchgear Room New Power Plant WWTP Pump/UV Building Electrical Substation Electrical Substation Tech Warehouse Light House Salt Water Pump Station Plum Island Guard House Sq. Footage 2,890 780 2,250 160 2,300 330 3,830 4,220 1,700 800 4,060 55,000 190,500 11,740 8,380 400 Level of Maintenance (Sec. 6.23 of SOW) 1 2 3 5 2 3 5 3 2 2 3 1 2 2 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 3 2

350 17,600 2,630

TE-TWO ABANDONED BUILDINGS Bldg. No. 14 15 21 24 25 37 44 49 54 55 60 62 63 65 90 94 115 226 227 228 232 257 259 Description Sq. Footage Level of Maintenance (Sec. 6.23 of SOW) 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5

Administration 21,000 Chlorinator Building 80 Animal Quarantine 7,190 Composter 1,660 Laboratory, Animal Breeding 3,140 Warehouse, Dead Storage 9,600 Warehouse, Dead Storage 2,660 Cafeteria 7,650 Engineering & Plant Maintenance 21,500 Administrative, Emergency Housing, Warehouse 39,960 Laboratory Animal Breeding 13,700 Large Animal Holding 25,500 Laboratory Animal Breeding 12,900 Dock Warehouse Animal Holding 10,960 Incinerator 640 Well and Pipe Pump House 550 Gammacell Irradiator Building 400 Paint Shop 400 Storage, Vacant 400 Assembly Hall 3,360 Lab Garage 370

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 013-0031 013-0032 013-0033 013-7073 038-0034 038-0035 038-0036 038-0037 038-0038 038-0039 038-EYEWASH 047-0044 059-0002 059-0040 059-1014 059-1015 059-1018 059-1020 059-1022 059-1024 059-1025 059-1026 059-1027 059-1029 059-1030 059-1031 059-1032 059-1033 059-1034 059-1099 059-4195 059-EYEWASH 100-0001 100-0002 DESCRIPTION Sump Pump Modine Heater Electric Hot Water Heater Fire Hose Testing Equipment Weilmclain Steam Boiler Federal Condensate Pump 12 Modine Heaters Unit Electric Hot Water Heater Air Compressor Motor Vehicle Lift Eyewash Electric Hot Water Heater Pressure Reducing Valve Weilmclain Hot Water Boiler Transfer Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) Transfer Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Chemical Mixer # 1 Day Tank # 1 Chlorine System Chemical Contact Tank Water Tower (Includes Cathodic System) Ph Meter1 Ph Meter 2 Chart Recorder Flow Meter#1 Flow Meter #2 Dehumidifier Mcc Electrical Panel Lime Tank Lime Pump Backflow,Pump Room,North Wall Eyewash/Shower Laundry Dryer Washing Machine LOCATED BLDG-013 (Fire House) BLDG-013 (Fire House) BLDG-013 (Fire House) BLDG-013 (Fire House) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-047 (D.O. Shack) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / LAUNDRY Page 1 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Poor Fair Poor Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Poor Good Good Fair Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 100-0003 100-0004 100-0005 100-0006 100-0007 100-0008 100-0009 100-0010 100-0012 100-0013 100-0015 100-0016 100-0017 100-0018 100-0019 100-0020 100-0021 100-0022 100-0023 100-0024 100-0025 100-0026 100-0027 100-0028 100-0029 100-0030 100-0031 100-0032 100-0033 100-0034 100-0036 100-0037 100-0038 100-0039 100-0040 100-0041 DESCRIPTION Convector Convector Convector Convector Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Grease Trap Heat Exchanger Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Modine Heater Modine Heater Steam Water Heater Water Filter Mili-Pol Water Fountain Water Fountain Water Fountain Water Fountain Condensate Pump Air Compressor Air Compressor Refrigerator Walk-In Walk-In Freezer Chest Freezer Chest Freezer Counter Top Freezer Table Top Refigerator 3 Door Refigerator Refrigerator Walk-In Walk-In Incubator Refrigerator Refrigerator Upright LOCATED BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / West Entry Stairwell BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1601 (LOBBY) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1601 (LOBBY) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / East Entry Stairwell BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1601 (LOBBY) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2620 (APHIS Office Area) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2600 (2ND Floor Lobby) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / WEST CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 Page 2 Condition Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Good Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 100-0045 100-0047 100-0048 100-0049 100-0051 100-0052 100-0053 100-0054 100-0055 100-0056 100-0057 100-0058 100-0062 100-0067 100-0101 100-0108 100-0153 100-0161 100-0191 100-0200 100-0201 100-0318 100-0319 100-0329 100-0509BSC 100-0985 100-0986 100-1000 100-1010 100-1310 100-1313 100-1315 100-1316 100-1317 DESCRIPTION Forma -70C Chest Freezer Refrigerator Refrigerator Refrigerator Refrigerator 2 Door Refrigerator Freezer -70 Chest Freezer -20 Chest Freezer Refrigerator Refrigerator Air Compressor Kitchen Hood Ventilation System Air Conditioning Condensing Unit Laundry Dryer Manitowoc Ice Machine Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Recirculating Water Pump # 1 Recirculating Water Pump # 2 Air Dryer Air Dryer Backflow,Machine Space,Hot Water Biosafety Cabinet Ice Machine Washing Machine Ice Maker Propane Cyclinder 100 Lb Forma -70 Chest Freezer White Westinghouse -20 Chest Freezer Forma -70 Chest Freezer Forma -70 Chest Freezer Ln2 Freezer Cryoplus 4 (1644-4) LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE ORIENT POINT / APHIS ORIENT POINT / APHIS ORIENT POINT / APHIS ORIENT POINT BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / CAFETERIA BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years

BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) Fair BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BreakRoom BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / OUTSIDE / B:101 NW CORNER BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631E BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631E BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631E BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK Page 3 Fair Fair Fair Good New Good New Fair Good Excellent Fair Fair Fair Excellent Fair Excellent

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 100-1327 100-1556 100-1557 100-1672BSC 100-1673BSC 100-1674BSC 100-1739BSC 100-2624BSC 100-3001 100-3003 100-3004BSC 100-3006 100-3007 100-3008 100-3009 100-3010 100-3011 100-3132 100-330 100-3748 100-8286 100-8611BSC 100-9000 100-9001 100-EYEWASH-1 100-EYEWASH-2 100-EYEWASH-5 100-EYEWASH-6 100-EYEWASH-7 100-EYEWASH-8 100-F152 DESCRIPTION Refrigerated Display Case (3) Glass Door Autoclave Autoclave Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Thermo -86 Chest Freezer Forma -70C Chest Freezer Biosafety Cabinet Thermo Electron -120 LN2 Freezer Puffer Hubbard +4 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Revco -86 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer External AC Unit Elevator Bldg. 100 Circulation Pump Backflow,Machine Space,Cold Water Biosafety Cabinet Oxygen Sensor Oxygen Sensor Overhead Shower Station Eyewash Overhead Shower Station Eyewash Overhead Eyewash/Shower Station Eyewash Fume Hood LOCATED BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM 1631C BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / 1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM 1631C BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631B BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631E BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / EAST AUTOCLAVE BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631 Page 4 Condition Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair New Excellent Fair Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Good Fair Good Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10-15 Years 10-15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 100-F153 100-F162 100-F163 100-F164 100-HVU1 100-HW01 100-HW02 100-ROOF 100-SALADBAR2 100-UFR16NR 101-0001 101-0002 101-0003 101-0005 101-0006 101-0007 101-0008 101-0009 101-0010 101-0011 101-0012 101-0013 101-0014 101-0015 101-0016 101-0017 101-0018 101-0019 101-0020 101-0021 101-0022 101-0023 101-0024 101-0025 101-0026 101-0027 DESCRIPTION Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Hot Water Circulator Hot Water Circulator Building 100 Roof Portable Salad Bar Chest Freezer Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter LOCATED BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1633 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / MACHINE-RM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / CAFETERIA ORIENT POINT / BUTLER BLDG. BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Poor Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years Needs Replacement 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

Page 5

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-0028 101-0029 101-0030 101-0031 101-0032 101-0033 101-0034 101-0036 101-0037 101-0038 101-0039 101-0040 101-0041 101-0042 101-0043 101-0044 101-0045 101-0046 101-0047 101-0048 101-0048BSC 101-0049 101-0050 101-0051 101-0052 101-0053 101-0054 101-0055 101-0056 101-0057 101-0058 101-0059 101-0060 101-0061 101-0146AL DESCRIPTION Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Biosafety Cabinet Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Vent Filter Exit Airlock Small East End LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SHEET_METAL_SHOP / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SHEET_METAL_SHOP / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-51 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-22 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / PAINT_SHOP BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / Old VP Area BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SEWAGEPIT BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1419 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / ROOF / N/A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) Page 6 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-0148AL 101-0161AL 101-0226 101-0227 101-0242BSC 101-0457 101-0504BSC 101-0556BSC 101-0557BSC 101-0558BSC 101-0559BSC 101-0560BSC 101-0562BSC 101-0874BSC 101-1005 101-1007 101-1020 101-1022 101-1023 101-1025 101-1026 101-1028 101-1030 101-1032 101-1033 101-1035 101-1056A 101-1058 101-1060 101-1062 101-1063 101-1065 101-1066A 101-1068 101-1070 DESCRIPTION Exit Airlock Large East End Exit Airlock Large West End Backflow,Bsmt.Corridor,Above Autoclave Backflow Preventer Biosafety Cabinet Backflow,M5 Inside Of Room Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1439 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0411 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1435 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0409 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0401 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1459 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A Page 7 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Excellent Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1072 101-1073 101-1075 101-1080 101-1082 101-1086 101-1088 101-1090 101-1092 101-1093 101-1095 101-1096 101-1098 101-1100 101-1100AR 101-1102 101-1114 101-1115 101-1117 101-1119 101-1120A 101-1122 101-1124 101-1125 101-1127 101-1129A 101-1131 101-1132AL 101-1139AL 101-1140 101-1142 101-1143 101-1145 DESCRIPTION Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler North Center Corridor Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Eaw Airlock (Storage) Waw Airlock (Storage) Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / NORTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A Page 8 Condition Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Poor Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1147 101-1148 101-1150 101-1152 101-1153 101-1155 101-1156 101-1156AR 101-1158 101-1160 101-1162 101-1163 101-1163AR 101-1165 101-1166AL 101-1168AR 101-1170 101-1175AR 101-1176 101-1177 101-1178 101-1182 101-1183 101-1184 101-1185A 101-1186AR 101-1187 101-1189A 101-1190 101-1191 101-1193 101-1193AR 101-1198AR 101-1200A 101-1200AL DESCRIPTION Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Storage Room Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Lab Room Exhaust Air Handler Eaw Airlock (Storage/Trash) Fad Break Room Supply Air Handler Old Autopsy Room - Storage Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Booster Unit Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Animal Room Office Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Animal Room Office Animal Room / Old Autopsy - Storage Supply Air Handler Eaw Animal Holding Airlock LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SHEET_METAL_SHOP / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW Page 9 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Good Fair Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1202 101-1202AL 101-1203AL 101-1204 101-1204AL 101-1206 101-1207AR 101-1208 101-1209AR 101-1210 101-1212 101-1214 101-1216 101-1217 101-1218 101-1219 101-1219AL 101-1220 101-1224 101-1225 101-1227 101-1229 101-1230 101-1231 101-1233 101-1234 101-1240AL 101-1246AL 101-1248AR 101-1256AL 101-1280AR 101-1282AL 101-1292AR 101-1295 DESCRIPTION Supply Air Handler Eaw Animal Holding Airlock Corridor Airlock Supply Air Handler Eaw Animal Holding Airlock Supply Air Handler North Corridor Holding Airlock Supply Air Handler North Corridor Holding Airlock Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exit Airlock West Animal Wing (Waw) Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exit Airlock Orient Animal Wing (Oaw) Eaw Animal Holding Airlock Oaw Animal Corridor Oaw Airlock Eaw To Oaw Crossover Corridor Eaw To Oaw Crossover Corridor Airlock Center Animal Corridor Chill Water System Piping and Coils LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-22 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-28 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-45 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-51 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-22 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-28 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-45 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-51 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) Page 10 Condition Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1304 101-1305 101-1308 101-1313 101-1314 101-1315 101-1316AL 101-1317 101-1319A 101-1319B 101-1319C 101-1320 101-1320AR 101-1324 101-1327 101-1328 101-1329 101-1330 101-1331 101-1332 101-1334 101-1334AL 101-1336 101-1336AL 101-1345 101-1347 101-1348 101-1349 101-1350 101-1351 101-1352 101-1354 101-1355 101-1356 101-1357 101-1359 DESCRIPTION Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Revco 70 Chest Freezer Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Forma 70 Chest Freezer Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Oaw Airlock Forma 70 Chest Freezer Revco 70 Chest Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer Walk-In Cooler Oaw Animal Corridor Forma 70 Chest Freezer Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Walk-In Cooler/Condensing Unit Forma 70 Chest Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer Revco 70 Chest Freezer Walk-In Cooler Oaw Airlock Walk-In Incubator Exit Airlock East Animal Wing (Eaw) Forma 70 Chest Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco 30 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Thermo Forma 70 Chest Freezer Revco 30 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW / ORIENT NECROPSY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW / WEST_NECROPSY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW / East Airlock BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0445 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0445 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D / XRAY CRYS BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / ROOM 1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1407 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A Page 11 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 2 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1360 101-1361 101-1365 101-1366 101-1367 101-1401 101-1402 101-1403 101-1404 101-1405 101-1406 101-1408 101-1410 101-1411 101-1412 101-1413 101-1414 101-1415 101-1416 101-1417 101-1418 101-1419 101-1420 101-1421 101-1422 101-1423 101-1424 101-1426 101-1427 101-1432 101-1436 101-1438 101-1443-1 101-1444 101-1445 101-1446-2 101-1449A DESCRIPTION G.E. 20 Upright Freezer G.E. 20 Upright Freezer Pressure Reducing Valve 40#, 6" Chest Freezer-5 Cu Ft General Electric -20 Chest Freezer Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor (Portable) Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Air Compressor Crematory Incinerator (East) Sewage "Slurry" Pump Crematory Incinerator (Orient) Air Compressor Air Compressor Sump Pump Municiple Waste Incinerator (West) Air Compressor Sewage Pump LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW / RM-1163 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SEWAGEPIT BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S ASH PIT / BEHIND B101 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / WEST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SEWAGEPIT Page 12 Condition Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Fair Fair Excellent Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1449B 101-1473A 101-1475A 101-1478A 101-1480A 101-1485A 101-1488A 101-1496 101-1497 101-1498 101-1503 101-1506 101-1507A 101-1509 101-1510 101-1513A 101-1514A 101-1518 101-1519A 101-1522 101-1525 101-1529 101-1531 101-1533 101-1534 101-1542 101-1551A 101-1552 101-1553 101-1554 101-1555A 101-1560 101-1561 101-1562 101-1563 DESCRIPTION Sewage Pump Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Hot Water Generator Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave Pass Thru Box Autoclave Autoclave Autoclave LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SEWAGEPIT BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW / RM-1171 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW / RM-1201 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-172 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0439 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A Page 13 Condition Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Good Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair New Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 2 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1601 101-1602 101-1603 101-1604 101-1605 101-1606 101-1620 101-1623 101-1626 101-1627 101-1628 101-1630 101-1664 101-1665 101-1666 101-1668BSC 101-1670 101-1675BSC 101-1680 101-1681 101-1687 101-1688 101-1689 101-1707 101-1708 101-1735BSC 101-1737BSC 101-1740 101-1741 101-1742 101-1743 101-1744 101-1746 101-1751 101-1760 101-1765 DESCRIPTION Water Filter Water Filter Water Filter Water Filter Water Filter Water Filter Fountain Fountain Fountain Fountain Fountain Fountain Hot Pack Dryer Washer Biosafety Cabinet Glassware Tunnel Washer Biosafety Cabinet Dryer Dryer Washing Machine Washing Machine Washing Machine Barnstead Thermolyne Still, 5 Gallon Barnstead Thermolyne Still, 10 G.P.M. Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Condensate Pump Condensate Pump Condensate Pump Condensate Pump Condensate Pump Condensate Pump Decon Pump Decon Pump Decon Pump West Airlock LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / Shop Area BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / APHIS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MAIN_CORR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MAIN_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1419 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0429 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST Page 14 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-1768 101-1770 101-1777BSC 101-1780 101-1783 101-1784 101-1785 101-1800 101-1801 101-1802 101-1803 101-1804 101-1805 101-1806 101-1807 101-1808 101-1810 101-1811 101-1812 101-1813 101-1819 101-1820 101-1825 101-1826 101-1836 101-1842BSC 101-1910BSC 101-1911BSC 101-1912BSC 101-2040 DESCRIPTION Decon Pump 500Lbs.Hoist Biosafety Cabinet Elevator Electric Chain Hoist 500Lbs.Hoist Electric Chain Hoist Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Backflow Preventer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Ice Machine LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / WEST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0431 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW / EAST_NECROPSY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW / ORIENT NECROPSY BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-28 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-22 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-22 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-28 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-51 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-51 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-45 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / FEED_CORR-45 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) TICK LAB (SHREDDER ROOM) TICK LAB (SHREDDER ROOM) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW / Rm-1286 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / RM-022 Page 15 Condition Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 Years Years Years Years

1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 Years Years Years Years

1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-2056BSC 101-2200 101-2201 101-2202 101-2203 101-2204 101-2205 101-2206 101-2207 101-2208 101-2209 101-2210 101-2211 101-2212 101-2213 101-2214 101-2215 101-2216 101-2217 101-2218 101-2219 101-2220 101-2221 101-2222 101-2223 101-2224 101-2225 101-2226 101-2227 101-2228 101-2229 101-2230 101-2231 101-2232 DESCRIPTION Biosafety Cabinet Shower (Hand Held) Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower (Hand Held) Eyewash Shower Shower (Hand Held) Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Shower Eyewash Shower (Hand Held) Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-176 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / RM-142 (Exit Autoclave Room) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM-044 (Rad Waste) / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM-044 (Rad Waste) / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A Page 16 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-2233 101-2234 101-2235 101-2236 101-2237 101-2238 101-2239 101-2240 101-2241 101-2242 101-2243 101-2244 101-2245 101-2246 101-2247 101-2248 101-2249 101-2250 101-2251 101-2252 101-2253 101-2254 101-2255 101-2256 101-2257 101-2258 101-2259 101-2260 101-2261 101-2262 101-2263 101-2264 101-2265 101-2266 101-2267L 101-2268 101-2269 101-2270 DESCRIPTION Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / N/A BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101) / BASEMENT / LAB-B BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL Page 17 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-2271 101-2272 101-2273 101-2274 101-2275 101-2276 101-2277 101-2278 101-2279 101-2280 101-2281 101-2282 101-2283 101-2284 101-2285 101-2286 101-22NORTH 101-22SOUTH 101-2304 101-25NORTH 101-25SOUTH 101-2648 101-2650 101-28NORTH 101-28SOUTH 101-3004BSC 101-3010 101-3105 101-3126 101-3136 101-3140 101-3210 101-3227 101-3250A 101-3253 101-3256BSC 101-3263BSC 101-3264BSC DESCRIPTION Eyewash Shower Shower Shower Eyewash Shower Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Shower Shower Eyewash Eyewash Shower Eyewash 22 North Animal Corridor 22 South Animal Corridor Ice Machine 25 North Animal Corridor 25 South Animal Corridor Ars Lunchroom Passthrough Box Aphis Lunchroom Passthrough Box 28 North Animal Corridor 28 South Animal Corridor Biosafety Cabinet Revco -70 Upright Freezer Thermo -70 Chest Freezer Sears Coldspot Upright Freezer Ge Upright -20 Freezer Sears -20 Upright Freezer Refrigerator/Dom.Admiral Kenmore -20 Upright Freezer Refrigerator/Dom. Whirlpool Refrigerator Admiral Upright Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0455 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1449 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0423 RM.46 RM.46 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0439 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / ARS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / APHIS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 184 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / MOD CORRIDOR / LAB-D / RM-176 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / ARS / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1443 Page 18 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Excellent Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-3282 101-3335BSC 101-3362 101-3363 101-3364 101-3365 101-3366 101-3500 101-3502 101-3504 101-3505 101-3506 101-3507 101-3509 101-3510 101-3511 101-3512 101-3513 101-3514 101-3515 101-3516 101-3517 101-3518 101-3521 101-3522 101-3523 101-3524 101-3525 101-3526 101-3527 101-3528 101-3529 101-3530 101-3531 101-3532 101-3533 DESCRIPTION Oven Biosafety Cabinet Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Fume Hood Sears Coldspot Upright Freezer Forma -70 Bio-Chest Freezer Puffer Hubbard Upright Freezer 20 Forma Lab Refrigerator/Freezer Kenmore -20 Upright Freezer Kenmore Refrigerator/Dom. Kenmore Refrigerator/Dom. Kenmore Refrigerator/Dom. Fisher Sci Iso Temp Glass Door Refrig. Forma Lab Double Door Glass Refrig. Fisher Sci Iso Glass Td Refrig. Kenmore Upright Freezer Fisher Sci Iso Double Door Glass Refrig. Forma O/U Double Door Freezer Whirlpool Lab Line X-Proof Refigerator Whirlpool Refrigerator Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -30 Upright Freezer Lkb S/D Glass Refrigerator Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Revco -30 Upright Freezer Ge-20 Upright Freezer Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Revco -30 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Revco -70 Upright Freezer LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0445 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / LAB C / ROOM 1108 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1445 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1439 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1443 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1411 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1407 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1407 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1407 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0401 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 Page 19 Condition Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-3536 101-3537 101-3538 101-3540 101-3544 101-3546 101-3558 101-3561 101-3562 101-3563 101-3564 101-3565 101-3566 101-3567 101-3568 101-3569 101-3597BSC 101-4013BSC 101-4015 101-4016 101-4017 101-4018 101-4019 101-4020 101-4505BSC 101-45NORTH 101-45SOUTH 101-4667BSC 101-4756 101-4785BSC 101-4802BSC 101-48NORTH 101-48SOUTH 101-4993BSC 101-5010 101-5014 101-5015 DESCRIPTION Sears Chest Freezer 20/Dom. Sears -20 Upright Freezer Ge -20 Upright Freezer Kelvinator S/D Glass Refrig. Uwr Scientific D/D Glass Refrig. Scotsman Ice Machine Whirlpool Refrigerator/Dom. Ice Machine Forma Lab Freezer Hoshizaki Ice Machine Revco -70 Chest Freezer Freezer, Thermo Forma Revco -70 Upright Freezer Frigdaire -20 Upright Freezer Domestic Refrigerator/Freezer Domestic Refrigerator/Freezer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Powers Valve Powers Valve Powers Valve Powers Valve Powers Valve Powers Valve Biosafety Cabinet 45 North Animal Corridor 45 South Animal Corridor Biosafety Cabinet Backflow Preventer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet 48 North Animal Corridor 48 South Animal Corridor Biosafety Cabinet Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / LAB ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW / RM-1186 (Care Taker Office) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / LAB C / ROOM 1118 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / ARS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-3S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 184 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-182 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-176 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 184 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / RM-032 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A Page 20 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Good Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 2 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-5020 101-5024 101-5025 101-5030 101-5034 101-5035 101-5040 101-5044 101-5045 101-5050 101-5054 101-5055 101-5060 101-5064 101-5065 101-5070 101-5074 101-5075 101-5080 101-5084 101-5085 101-5090 101-5094 101-5095 101-5100 101-5104 101-5105 101-5110 101-5111 101-5112 101-5114 101-5115 101-5120 101-5124 101-5125 101-5128 101-5130 101-5134 DESCRIPTION Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Revco Upright Freezer -20 Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / RM-194 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A Page 21 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-5135 101-5140 101-5144 101-5145 101-5177BSC 101-5178BSC 101-51NORTH 101-51SOUTH 101-5903BSC 101-5905BSC 101-5911BSC 101-6071BSC 101-6184BSC 101-6185BSC 101-6186BSC 101-6187BSC 101-6244BSC 101-6258 101-6275 101-6276 101-6301 101-6303 101-6304 101-6309 101-6310 101-6311 101-6313 101-6314 101-6320 101-6327 101-6330 101-6333 101-6335 101-6337 101-6338 101-6339 101-6341 101-6342 DESCRIPTION Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet 51 North Animal Corridor 51 South Animal Corridor Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Autoclave Pip.Plugger Pip.Plugger Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco Upright Refrigerator Lab Line X-Proof Refrigerator Lab Line X-Proof Refrigerator Lab Line X-Proof Refigerator Revco -70 Upright Freezer Refrigerator/Dom. Frigidaire Refrigerator Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Amana -20 Upright Freezer Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Revco X-Proof Refrigerator Ge Refrigerator/Dom. Frigidaire Refrigerator Amana -20 Upright Freezer Amana -20 Upright Freezer LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / Rm-198 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / EAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-174 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-2 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0401 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1405 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1411 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / FACIL BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1463 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1467 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1425 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / APHIS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1437 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0405 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1443 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / ARS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0425 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1463 Page 22 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-6343 101-6352 101-6352A 101-6353 101-6358 101-6392A 101-6396 101-6399 101-6400 101-6401 101-6402 101-6435 101-6551 101-6552 101-655P 101-6801BSC 101-6806BSC 101-6809BSC 101-6830BSC 101-6841BSC 101-6866BSC 101-6879BSC 101-7320 101-7430BSC 101-7559BSC 101-7980BSC 101-8050BSC 101-8211BSC 101-8287 101-8288 101-8289 101-8290 101-8291 101-8329BSC 101-8462BSC DESCRIPTION Hot Point Refrigerator/Dom. Revco -30 Upright Freezer Revco-30 Upright Freezer Revco -30 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer -70 Upright Freezer Ice Machine Kenmore -20 Upright Freezer Kenmore -20 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Backflow,4-B, Hot Room Revco -20 Upright Freezer Revco Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Backflow Preventer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Backflow Preventor (Outside Cntment) Backflow, Galssware Above Tunnel Wash Backflow,4-B,Chiller Unit 3, Column 21 Backflow,Glasswash Room,Above Autoclave Backflow,4-B,At Main Steam Station Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0429 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1455 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / ARS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-174 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / MOD CORRIDOR / ROOM C1503 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1437 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1445 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1449 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1463 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1459 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / GLASSWARE / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0447 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1401 Page 23 Condition Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-8463BSC 101-8550 101-8670BSC 101-8848BSC 101-8849BSC 101-8850BSC 101-8851BSC 101-9002 101-9017 101-9018 101-9020 101-9021 101-9022 101-9023 101-9024 101-9025 101-9027 101-9028 101-9030 101-9032 101-9033 101-9034 101-9036 101-9038 101-90W0 101-9169 101-9170 101-9171 101-9172 101-9174 101-9176 101-9178 101-9179 101-9181 101-9184 DESCRIPTION Biosafety Cabinet Revco -70 Upright Freezer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Sound Dosimeter Digital Safety Analyzer Digital Safety Analyzer Multi Gas Detector Multi Gas Detector Multi Gas Detector Aerosol Generator Velocicale Portable Air Velocity Meter Velocicale Portable Air Velocity Meter Digi Sense Scanning Thermometer Digi Sense Scanning Thermometer Sound Meter LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1453 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-A / RM-1451 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / Rm-198 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 162 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1425 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE Condition Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Excellent Fair Excellent Good Excellent Good Excellent

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years

Chart Record & Probes Orient Incinerator BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM Chart Recorder & Probes West Incinerator BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / WEST_INC_ROOM Chart Recorder & Probes East Incinerator Portable Air Velocity Meter Barnant Scanning Thermometer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Frigidaire -20 Upright Freezer Sanyo -70 Upright Freezer Deli-Style Refrigerator Sanyo -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Chest Freezer -150 Chest Freezer BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SAFETY_OFFICE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-180 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / Rm-198 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MAIN_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 / CORRIDOR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 162 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST Page 24

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-9185 101-9518BSC 101-9519BSC 101-9732BSC 101-9733BSC 101-9947BSC 101-A010 101-A020 101-A030 101-A040 101-A050 101-A060 101-A070 101-A080 101-A090 101-A100 101-A110 101-A120 101-A140 101-A190 101-A210 101-A220 101-AHU1M/F1-1M 101-F011 101-F012 101-F021 101-F022 101-F031 101-F032 101-F033 101-F041 101-F042 101-F051 101-F061 101-F071 101-F072 101-F081 DESCRIPTION Revco -70 Chest Freezer Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Biosafety Cabinet Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-C / RM-024 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-182 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / RM-1108 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-1 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-6 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST Page 25 Condition Excellent Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 101-F082 101-F083 101-F091 101-F092 101-F101 101-F111 101-F121 101-F141 101-F171 101-F181 101-F211 101-F221 101-H691 101-H692 101-HEX-1 101-HEX-2 101-HPT1 101-HPT4 101-HTP2 101-HTP3 101-N0213 101-ROOF 101-TC2 101-UFR00WP 101-UFR27SO 101-UFR30WO 101-UFR48VM 101-UFR5001 101-UFR57WP 101-UFR59WO 101-UFR8549 101-UFR93XP 102-4914 102-4973 DESCRIPTION Stain Cabinet Room Exhaust Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Fume Hood Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Supply Air Handler Supply Air Handler LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH_M-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-1S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair OOS OOS Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Failed Failed 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

Salt Water Cooled Effluent Heat Exchange BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B / WEST Salt Water Cooled Effluent Heat Exchange Hot Water Generator Pump #1. Hot Water Generator Pump #4 Hot Water Generator Pump #2 Hot Water Generator Pump #3 Refrigerator Upright -20 Fisher Sci Building 101 Roof 2000Lbs.Hoist Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Marvel -20 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Fridgedaire -20 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Backflow Preventer Backflow Preventer BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MACH-4B BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-4S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-2S / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-182 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / ROOF BLDG-101 (Laboratory) BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D / RM 180 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-C / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1433 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-5 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D / RM 180 BLDG-102 (Decon) / BASEMENT / REVIEVING TANK ROOM / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / FLOOR1 Page 26

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 102-5001 102-5002 102-5003 102-5005 102-5006 102-5007 102-5008 102-5009 102-5012 102-5013 102-5014 102-5015 102-5016 102-5017 102-5018 102-5019 102-5020 102-5021 102-5022 102-5023 102-5024 102-5025 102-5026 102-5027 102-5028 102-5029 102-5030 102-5031 102-5032 102-5033 102-5034 102-5035 102-5036 102-5037 DESCRIPTION Supply Fan K - 1 (Homemade) Exhaust Air Handler # 1 Steam Pressure Station # 3 Steam Pressure Station # 1 Roccal Pump # 2 Roccal Pump # 1 Caustic Mixing Pump # 2 Caustic Mixing Pump # 1 Comminutor # 2 Comminutor # 3 Comminutor # 4 Comminutor # 5 Comminutor Sump Pump J - 141 Sump Pump J - 142 # 1 Sewage Transfer Pump # 2 Sewage Transfer Pump # 3 Sewage Transfer Pump # 1 Water Circulating Pump # 2 Water Circulating Pump # 3 Water Circulating Pump # 1 Continuous Flow Sewage Pump # 2 Continuous Flow Sewage Pump # 3 Continuous Flow Sewage Pump # 1 Holding Tank # 2 Holding Tank # 3 Holding Tank # 1 Receiving Tank # 2 Receiving Tank # 1 Heat Exchanger # 2 Heat Exchanger # 1 Steam Booster # 2 Steam Booster Retention Tubes - 2 Each LOCATED BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) / FLOOR2 / EXHASUST FAN ROOM / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) / BASEMENT / REVIEVING TANK ROOM / N/A TANK FARM / 102 BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) / BASEMENT / REVIEVING TANK ROOM / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / BASEMENT / REVIEVING TANK ROOM / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / BASEMENT / REVIEVING TANK ROOM / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / SUB_BASEMENT / N/A / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / SUB_BASEMENT / N/A / N/A BLDG-102 (Decon) / FLOOR1 BLDG-102 (Decon) / FLOOR1 BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) Page 27 Condition Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-5 Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 102-5041 102-5042 102-5043 102-5044 102-5045 102-5046 102-5047 102-5048 102-5050 102-5053 102-5054 102-5055 102-5056 102-5061 102-5062 102-5063 102-5064 102-5065 102-5066AL 102-5068 102-5069 102-5070 102-5071 102-5072 102-EYEWASH 103-0006 103-0010 103-0014 103-0027 103-0028 103-0029 103-0030 103-0031 103-0032 DESCRIPTION # 1 Temp. Recorder # 2 Temp. Recorder # 1 Sewage Flow Meter # 2 Sewage Flow Meter # 1 Circ. Water Flow Meter # 2 Circ. Water Flow Meter Processing System Controls Main Electric Control Panel Autoclave Refrigerator Washer Dryer Hot Water Generator Caustic Lines Vent Line Filters Air Gasket Air Lines - Compressor Air Dryer Exit Airlock Level Meter Level Meter Level Meter Level Meter Level Meter Eyewash/Shower Condensate Tank Sump Pump Fuel Oil Transfer Pump Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater LOCATED BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) / FLOOR1 BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-103 / Condensate Room BLDG-103 / Condensate Room BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-103 / BOILER-ROOM BLDG-103 / BOILER-ROOM BLDG-103 BLDG-103 / SwitchGear Room BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM Page 28 Condition Good Good Poor Good Good Good Fair Fair Good Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Poor Poor Poor Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years < 1 Year 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced Should be Replaced Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 103-0033 103-0034 103-0035 103-0036 103-0038 103-0039 103-0059 103-0062 103-0068 103-0068TEMP 103-0069 103-0076 103-0078 103-0080 103-0081 103-0083 103-0085 103-0087 103-0088 103-0089 103-0090 103-0093 103-0099 103-0104 103-0105 103-1 103-8615 103-EYEWASH 103-TW-MW-5 103-TW-PI-40 103-TW-PI-5 103-TW-PI-8 105.3001 105-1358 105-1457 105-2100 DESCRIPTION Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater Modine Heater # 2 Fuel Oil Tank # 900 # 2 Fuel Oil Tank # 901 Cable House 257 Breaker,Power Distribution Transformers (Line 27 Of Them) Temporary Transformers Exhaust Air Handler Battery Charger # 3 Battery Charger # 5 Battery Bank # 2 Battery Bank # 3 Battery Bank # 5 Breaker,Power Distribution 13.2Kv Breaker,Power Distribution 13.2KV Breaker,Power Distribution 13.2KV Breaker,Power Distribution 13.2KV Motor Control Center 480V Alco Room Air Switch Pole # 51 #2 Fuel Oil Tank #902 Sump Pump For Tank Farm Drainage Sump Pump For Truck Rack Area 2000Lbs.Hoist Backflow Preventer Eyewash/Shower Ground Water Sample Well Ground Water Test Well Ground Water Test Well Ground Water Test Well Aeration Tank #2 Backflow Preventor LOCATED BLDG-103 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAUNDRY / N/A BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM / N/A / N/A BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM / N/A / N/A BLDG-103 OUTSIDE BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 / CONDENSATE-ROOM BLDG-103 / SwitchGear Room BLDG-103 / SwitchGear Room BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM / N/A / N/A BLDG-103 / SwitchGear Room BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM BLDG-103 BLDG-103 / Outside TANK FARM / 103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-103 / Outside PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT BLDG-105 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair/Poor Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Poor Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Page 29

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years <1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

Backflow,Bathroom East Wall,For WWTP BLDG-105 Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) BLDG-105

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 105-2101 105-2102 105-2103 105-2104 105-2105 105-2106 105-2107 105-2108 105-2109 105-2200 105-2201 105-2202 105-2203 105-2204 105-2205 105-2206 105-2208 105-2209 105-2300 105-2301 105-2302 105-2303 105-2304 105-2305 105-2306 105-2307 105-2308 105-2309 105-2400 105-2401 105-2402 105-2403 105-2500 105-2501 105-3000 105-3001 105-3002 105-3003 DESCRIPTION Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Air Compressor Air Compressor Bubbler System Ventilation System Heater Dehumidifier Sump Pump Electrical Control Panel Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Air Compressor Air Compressor Bubbler System Ventilation System Heater Sump Pump Electrical Control Panel Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Air Compressor Air Compressor Bubbler System Ventilation System Heater Dehumidifier Sump Pump Electrical Control Panel Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Sump Pump Electrical Control Panel Pump # 1 (Includes Motor) Pump # 2 (Includes Motor) Aeration Tank #1 Influent Pump # 1 Influent Pump # 2 Sludge Pump # 1 LOCATED BLDG-105 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 1 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 1 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 2 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 2 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 3 BLDG-105 / LIFT STATION 3 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-103 / Outside PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 Page 30 Condition Good Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 105-3004 105-3007 105-3008 105-3009 105-3010 105-3011 105-3013 105-3014 105-3015 105-3016 105-3017 105-3018 105-3020 105-3021 105-3023 105-3024 105-3025 105-3028 105-3029 105-3030 105-3032 105-3035 105-3036 105-7406 105-EQT-1 105-EQT-2 105-EYEWASH 106-EYEWASH 107-1235 107-1236 107-1237 107-1238 107-1239 109-0001 109-EYEWASH-1 109-EYEWASH-2 110-4831 110-7480 DESCRIPTION Sludge Pump # 2 Decant Pump # 1 Decant Pump # 2 Blower # 1 Blower # 2 U.V.System Influent Flow Meter Influent Temp. Meter D.O.Meter # 1 D.O.Meter # 2 Effluent Flow Meter Effluent Temperature Meter Chart Recorder # 1 Chart Recorder # 2 Electrical Control Panel Ph Meter Lab D.O.Meter Refrigerator # 1 Refrigerator # 2 Heater Water Heater Eyewash Station Mcc Electrical Panel Backflow,Bathroom East Wall,For Lab Eq Tank #1 W/Aerator Eq Tank #2 W/Diffuser Eyewash Station Eyewash/Shower Ventilation Fan Ventilation Fan C/W Condensor System Ventilation Fan Ventilation Fan Air Compressor (Portable Trailer) Eyewash Station Eyewash Station Backflow Preventor Ras Pump #10 LOCATED BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-106 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 BLDG-105 PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT PLUM ISLAND / WASTEWATER PLANT BLDG-106 / POLYMER RM BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-110 BLDG-110 Page 31 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM 110-7481 110-7482 110-7483 110-7484 110-EYEWASH 111-7801 AC-1 ACOMP-001 ACOMP-002 ACOMP-003 ACOMP-004 BATBANK BFP-6124 BFP-6228 BFP-6449 BFP-6546 BFP-8897 BLR-1 BLR-2 BLR-3 BRINE-01 CD/DA-1 CHILLER-1 CHILLER-2 CHILLER-3 CHILLER-4 CLARIFIER-01 COMP-01 COMP-02 COMP-03 CONDP-1 CONDP-2 CONDP-3 CONDP-4 CP-1 CP-2 CTWR-1 DESCRIPTION Ras Pump #11 Ras Pump #9 Eq Pump #7 Eq Pump #8 Eyewash/Shower Wall Mounted A/C & Heater External AC Unit Air compressor (Electric Driven) Air compressor (Electric Driven) Air compressor (Diesel Driven) Air Compressor Trailer (Diesel) Battery Bank for Steam Plant Switch Gear Backflow Preventer Backflow Preventer Backflow Preventer Backflow Preventer Backflow, Preventer 2" Utility Plant Boiler #1 Utility Plant Boiler #2 Utility Plant Boiler #3 Utility Plant Brine Tank Utility Plant Condensate/DA Tank Chiller # 1 Chiller # 2 Chiller # 3 Chiller # 4 Clarifier #1 Motor And Swing Gear Boiler Air Compressor Boiler Air Compressor Boiler Air Compressor 30 Hp Condensor Pump #1 30 Hp Condensor Pump #2 30 Hp Condensor Pump # 3 30 Hp Condensor Pump # 4 Utility Plant Condensate Pump Utility Plant Condensate Pump Cooling Tower with Electric Fan LOCATED BLDG-110 BLDG-110 BLDG-110 BLDG-110 BLDG-110 / N/A / N/A / N/A BLDG-111 BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Outside BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Outside BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Switchgear Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-107 BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-105 BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Outside Page 32 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM CTWR-2 CTWR-3 CWP-1 CWP-2 CWP-3 CWP-4 DG-1 DG-2 DG-3 DT93 DT94 DT95 DT96 DT97 DT98 EDG-1 EDG-2 EDG-3 EED-10 EED-11 EED-12 EED-13 EED-14 EED-17 EED-18 EED-19 EED-2 EED-20 EED-21 EED-3 EED-4 EED-5 DESCRIPTION Cooling Tower with Electric Fan Cooling Tower with Electric Fan 125 Hp Chilled Water Pump #1 125 Hp Chilled Water Pump #2 100 Hp Chilled Water Pump # 3 100 Hp Chilled Water Pump #4 Diesel Generator (Trailer) #1 Diesel Generator (Trailer) #2 Diesel Generator (Dock Backup) Boiler 1 Day Tank Boiler 2 Day Tank Boiler 3 Day Tank Generator 1 Day Tank Generator 2 Day Tank Generator 3 Day Tank Emergency Diesel Genterator Set Emergency Diesel Genterator Set Emergency Diesel Genterator Set Emergency Exit Door- First Floor Emergency Exit Door - Second Floor Emergency Exit Door Second Floor Emergency Exit Door - Second Floor Emergency Exit Door - Second Floor Emergency Exit Door - Second Floor Emergency Exit Door - Second Floor Emergency Exit Hatch LOCATED BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Outside BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Outside BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / Outside BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / Outside PLUM ISLAND HARBOR BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / WAW / CORR_22S BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / MACH-5S / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / NORTH_CORR / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / ARS LUNCH ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR2 / SOUTH_CORR(Main Feed Corridor) / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / WEST_INC_ROOM / N/A Condition Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Poor Poor Fair Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5-7 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

Emergency Exit Door- Basement Corridor BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / EAST Emergency Exit Hatch Emergency Exit Hatch BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SEWAGEPIT / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / EAST_INC_ROOM

Emergency Exit Door- Basement Corridor BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / WEST_INC_ROOM / N/A Emergency Exit Door- First Floor BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / EAST Emergency Exit Door- First Floor Page 33

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM EED-6 EED-7 EED-8 EED-9 EFAN-1 EFAN-2 EFAN-3 EFAN-4 EV50 EV51 EZ-GO1 EZ-GO2 FDPUMP-03 FDPUMP-04 FDPUMP-05 FLASH-1 FLT-0428 FLT-1050 FLT-1053 FLT-1074 FLT-1084 FLT-1111 FLT-381 FLT-386 FLT-387 FLT-388 FLT-389 FLT-4487 FLT-5081 FLT-8517 FLT-EB54 FLT-EB55 FLT-GEN-1462 FLT-GEN-4851 FLT-GEN-4852 FLT-GEN-8760 FLT-GEN-9417 FLT-GEN-9779 DESCRIPTION Emergency Exit Door- First Floor Emergency Exit Door - First Floor Emergency Exit Door- First Floor Emergency Exit Door- First Floor Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Exhaust Air Handler Summit Electric Golf Cart Summit Electric Golf Cart Utility Vehicle Utility Vehicle Utility Plant Boiler Feed Water Pump Utility Plant Boiler Feed Water Pump Utility Plant Boiler Feed Water Pump Utility Plant Flash Tank Prime Mover for Bow Thruster Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Parts Washing Machine Bench Grinder Drill Press 6000 Lb Engine Hoist Crane Filter Crusher 25 Ton Capacity Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Inflatable Raft Northern Lights Diesel Generator Ship Service Diesel Generator Ship Service Diesel Generator Marine Generator Northern Lights Diesel Generator Northern Lights Diesel Generator LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / OAW BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / NORTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / NORTH_CORR / EAST BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Switchgear Room BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / OUTSIDE BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / OUTSIDE BLDG-060 (W) / MARINE SHOP BLDG-103 / Outside BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom MV-PLUMISLAND VENDOR SHAHAN VENDOR JJCALLIS SHAHAN BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / MARINE SHOP BLDG-065(Warehouse) JJCALLIS VENDOR JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS / PORT SHAHAN / MACHINERYROOM SHAHAN / MACHINERYROOM MV-BLACKBURN JJCALLIS / STARBOARD MV-PLUMISLAND Page 34 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Fair Good Good Fair Fair Excellent

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM FLT-GEN-9780 FLT-ME-2456 FLT-ME-2459 FLT-ME-2461 FLT-ME-2462 FLT-ME-2564 FLT-ME-2565 FLT-ME-2566 FLT-ME-2661 FLT-ME-2949 FLT-ME-5126 FLT-ME-5192 FLT-ME-6266 FLT-RAFTS FLT-RG-0207 FLT-RG-0208 FLT-RG-8215 FLT-RG-8216 FLT-RG-8450 FLT-RG-8451 FLT-RG-B621 FLT-RG-B622 FLT-RG-BB1 FLT-RG-J836 FLT-RG-J837 FOPUMP-1 FOPUMP-2 FOPUMP-3 FOT-PIPELINE FZR-1307 FZR-1339 FZR-1353 FZR-1358 FZR-2658 FZR-3000 FZR-3004 DESCRIPTION Northern Lights Diesel Generator Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Lugger Main Engine Port Main Engine Cummins Main Engine Cummins Main Engine Starboard Main Engine Inflatable Life Rafts (Fleet Wide) ZF Reduction Gear 3.04:1 ZF Reduction Gear 3.04:1 Zf Reduction Gear (2:1) Zf Reduction Gear (2:1) Zf Reduction Gear (2:1) Zf Reduction Gear (2:1) Marine Reduction Gear Marine Reduction Gear Marine Reduction Gear Marine Reduction Gear Marine Reduction Gear Utility Plant Fuel Oil Pump Utility Plant Fuel Oil Pump Utility Plant Fuel Oil Pump Fuel Oil Transfer Pipeline Revco 70 Chest Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer Revco -30 Upright Freezer Forma 70 Chest Freezer LN2 Freezer, Cryoplus 3 Revco -70 Upright Freezer -70 Chest Freezer LOCATED MV-PLUMISLAND JJCALLIS / STARBOARD / Outboard JJCALLIS / PORT / Inboard JJCALLIS / PORT / Outboard JJCALLIS / STARBOARD / Inboard SHAHAN, SIB, ME / STARBOARD INBOARD SHAHAN, POB, ME / PORT OUTBOARD SHAHAN, PIB, ME / PORT INBOARD SHAHAN / ENGINEROOM / STARBOARD / OUTBOARD MV-BLACKBURN MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND / Starboard MV-BLACKBURN JJCALLIS MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND JJCALLIS / STARBOARD / Outboard JJCALLIS / PORT / Inboard JJCALLIS / STARBOARD / Inboard JJCALLIS / PORT / Outboard SHAHAN / ENGINEROOM SHAHAN / ENGINEROOM MV-BLACKBURN SHAHAN / ENGINEROOM SHAHAN / ENGINEROOM BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-103 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / MAIN_CORR / West BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / ROOM 0465 / N/A Condition Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Excellent Excellent Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years

BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) Excellent

Page 35

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM FZR-3005 FZR-3104 FZR-3535 FZR-3557 FZR-6300 FZR-6302 FZR-6307 FZR-6308 FZR-6349 FZR-6354 FZR-6389A FZR-6391A FZR-6393 FZR-6394 FZR-6395 FZR-6397 FZR-6398 FZR-6403 FZR-6404 FZR-6405 FZR-8551 FZR-8552 FZR-9173 FZR-9175 FZR-9180 FZR-9182 FZR-9183 FZR-9186 DESCRIPTION -20 Chest Freezer Philco -20 Upright Freezer Revco -30 Upright Freezer Forma Cyro 300 Ln2 Freezer Revco 30 Chest Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco 30 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Cryoplus 2 Ln2 Freezer Ln2 Freezer, Cryoplus 4 Ln2 Freezer, Cryoplus 4 -70 Degree Upright Freezer -70 Degree Upright Freezer Cryoplus Ln2 Freezer Cryoplus Ln2 Freezer Cryo Series Ln2 Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Thermo Elec LN2 Freezer Rheem -30 Chest Freezer Thermo LN2 Freezer Puffer Hubbard +4 Upright Freezer LOCATED Condition

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years

BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1640 (Warehouse / IT) Excellent BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0465 Fair BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-A / RM-0465 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / FREEZER-RM / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / SOUTH_CORR / WEST BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / RM 0465 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / FREEZER_ROOM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK Page 36 Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Good Excellent Excellent

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM FZR-9187 FZR-9188 FZR-9189 FZR-9190 FZR-9191 FZR-9192 FZR-9193 FZR-9194 FZR-9195 FZR-9196 FZR-9197 FZR-9198 FZR-9201 FZR-9202 FZR-9203 HOIST-1281 HOIST-1282 HOT STICKS HQ-12 HQ-14 HQ-15 HQ-16 HQ-17 HQ-18 HQ-19 HQ-20 HQ-21 HQ-70 HQ-77 HQ-81 HQ-82 DESCRIPTION Sanyo -70 Chest Freezer Thermo Fisher-Harris Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -20 Upright Freezer Revco -70 Upright Freezer Revco -20 Upright Freezer Sanyo -20 Upright Freezer Sanyo -20 Upright Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Thermo Ln2 Freezer Sanyo -30 Upright Freezer Chest Freezer -86 Thermo -86C Upright Freezer Thermo -86C Upright Freezer Chain Hoist Manual Chain Hoist Manual High Voltage Hot Sticks Forklift LOCATED BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / ARS / MOD-4 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D / RM 180 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0405 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-B / RM-0403 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1413 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM 1631C BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / 1631 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / C-1609 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-B / RM-1433 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / BSL-2 / RM-1631E BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-103 BLDG-060 (W) Condition Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent New New New New New New New New New Fair Fair Good Poor Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair New Poor Fair Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 10-15 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

YARD MACHINES E700 SNOWBLOWER ORIENT POINT / BUTLER BLDG. YARD MACHINES E700 SNOWBLOWER 10' Western Snow Plow (#1) 10' Western Snow Plow (#2) 9' Meyer Snow Plow Swenson Street Sander #1 Swenson Street Sander #2 Terex Backhoe Loader 2009 Bulldozer/Dresser Td15 John Deere Tractor With Bucket Welder Yard & Driveway Blower BLDG-067 BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-067 Page 37

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM HQ-85 HQ-86 HQ-87 HQ-88 HQ-89 HQ-90 HQ-92 HQ-93 HQ-94 HQ-95 HQ-96 HQ-97 HQ-98 HRU-01 HWH-01 INC-001 INC-002 JJ CALLIS JJC-1000 JJC-1100 JJC-1200 JJC-1300 JJC-1400 JJC-1500 JJC-1600 JJC-1700 JJC-1750 JJC-1800 JJC-1850 JJC-1900 JJC-2000 DESCRIPTION Drag Livestock Trailer Wood Chipper Mower Side Cutting Flail Woods Rotary Mower 5 Ton Equipment Trailer 50" Ztr Lawn Mower Mh Eby 40 Ft Livestock Trailer Three Wheel Rider Mower (Scagg) Three Wheel Rider Mower (Scagg) Self Propelled Brush Cutter Clark Forklift 5 Ton Trailer Clark Forklift Continuous Blowdown Heat Recovery Unit Electric Hot Water Heater Co2 Incubator Co2 Incubator Motor Vessel JJ Callis Navigational Systems Sanitary Systems Potable Water Systems Air Handler Systems Pneumatic Systems Battery Systems Bilge Transfer Systems Fire Pump Systems Cooling System Intake Strainers Mach.Space Fire Suppression Systems Life Saving Equipment Mach.Space Heating Systems Windshield Wiper And Washer Systems LOCATED BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-067 BLDG-022 BLDG-067 BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-067 ISLAND WIDE / ORIENT POINT BLDG-022 BLDG-022 BLDG-067 BLDG-065(Warehouse) BLDG-060 (W) ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-176 BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM-176 PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS Condition Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Good Good Good Good Poor Poor Good Fair Good Good Poor Good Fair Good Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 2 Years 1- 5 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 1 - 2 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

Page 38

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM JJC-2100 JJC-2200 JJC-2300 JJC-2400 JJC-3000 JJC-4000 JJC-5000 JJC-5811 JJC-6000 JJC-7000 JJC-8000 JJC-9000 KBC-001 KITCHENDISPENSERD007 KITCHENFRIDGE4A04 KITCHENFRIDGE4DO4 KITCHENFRIDGE9417 KITCHENFRIDGE9421 KITCHENFRIDGE9427 KITCHENFRIDGE9C04 KITCHEN-JA0011 KITCHEN-RE0029 LIFT STATION 1 LIFT STATION 2 LIFT STATION 3 LIFT STATION 4 DESCRIPTION Lube Oil Transfer Systems Fuel Oil Systems Hydraulic Systems Sub Surface Running Gear Windshield Defroster Systems Navigational Lighting Systems Gauges And Engine Alarm Systems Diesel Fired Package Boiler Interior Lighting Systems Exterior Lighting Systems Emergency Lights And Relay Switch LOCATED JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS JJCALLIS Condition Poor Good Fair Fair Good Poor Fair Good Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good OOS Fair Fair Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years No Longer in Use 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years

Anchoring Equip.And Ground Tackle Sys. JJCALLIS Knuckle Boom Crane BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) Automatic Coffee Dispenser Refrigerator Reach In Refrigerator Reach In Counter Refrigerator Counter Refrigerator Counter Refrigerator Refrigerator Reach In Convection Oven Electric E-Series Electric Stove Lift Station # 1 Lift Station # 2 Lift Station # 3 Lift Station # 4 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / CAFETERIA BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / KITCHEN / N/A BLDG-257 / OUTSIDE BLDG-102 (Decon) / EXTERIOR BLDG-060 (W) / Outside BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / OUTSIDE / ACROSS Parking Circle Page 39

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM LIFT STATION 5 MS SHAHAN MSS-1000 MSS-1100 MSS-1200 MSS-1300 MSS-1400 MSS-1500 MSS-1600 MSS-1700 MSS-1750 MSS-1800 MSS-1850 MSS-1900 MSS-2000 MSS-2100 MSS-2200 MSS-2300 MSS-2400 MSS-2500 MSS-3000 MSS-4000 MSS-5000 MSS-6000 MSS-7000 MSS-8000 MSS-9000 MSS-G897 MTP-382 MTP-383 MTP-384 MTP-385 DESCRIPTION Lift Station # 5 Motor Vessel MS Shahan Navigational Systems Sanitary Systems Potable Water Systems Air Handler Systems Pneumatic Systems Battery Systems Bilge Transfer Systems Fire Pump Systems Cooling System Intake Strainers Mach.Space Fire Suppression Systems Life Saving Equipment Mach.Space Heating Systems Windshield Wiper And Washer Systems Lube Oil Transfer Systems Fuel Oil Systems Hydraulic Systems Sub Surface Running Gear Bow Thruster System Windshield Defrosting Systems Navigational Lighting Systems Gauges And Engine Alarm Systems Interior Lighting Systems Exterior Lighting Systems Emergency Lights And Relay Switches LOCATED BLDG-103 / Outside PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN SHAHAN Condition Fair Good Fair Poor Poor Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Fair Good Good Fair Good Poor Good Good Good Excellent

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years

Anchoring Equip. And Ground Tackle Sys. SHAHAN Bow Thruster Prime Mover Engine Crane Arc Welder Jack Stands (1) Pair Strut Spring Compressor SHAHAN BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) Page 40

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM MTP-386 MTP-387 MTP-389 MV-1000 MV-1100 MV-1200 MV-1300 MV-1400 MV-1500 MV-1600 MV-1700 MV-1800 MV-1900 MV-2000 MV-2100 MV-2200 MV-2300 MV-2400 MV-2500 MV-2600 MV-2700 MV-2800 MV-2900 MV-3000 MV-3100 MV-3200 MV-3300 MV-3400 MV-Blackburn MV-PLUMISLAND OP-0080 OP-0081 OP-0082 OP-0083 DESCRIPTION Bench Grinder Drill Press Tire Machine / New As Of Aug.98 Life Saving Equipment Windshield Wipers Hydraulic Systems Navigational Lighting Systems Gauges & Engine Alarm Systems Fire Suppression Sys/Portable Extinguish Anchoring Equipment & Ground Tackle Emergency Lighting System Interior Lighting System Exterior Lighting System Windshield Defroster System Battery & Charging Systems Potable Water System Navigation Systems Sanitary Systems Bilge Transfer Systems Boiler Fired Hot Water Heating System Fire Pump & Stations Pneumatic Systems Deck Equipment Anchor Capstan Hydraulic System 150HP Wesmar Bowthrust Cooling Sys & Raw Water intake stainers Fuel Oil System Air Handler Units and Systems Motor Vessel Blackburn Motor Vessel Plum Island Warm Air Furnace # 1 Warm Air Furnace # 2 Electric Hot Water Heater Warm Air Furnace # 1 LOCATED BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND MV-PLUMISLAND PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA ORIENT POINT ADMIN. BLDG. ORIENT POINT ADMIN. BLDG. ORIENT POINT ADMIN. BLDG. ORIENT POINT WAREHOUSE Page 41 Condition Fair Fair Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Excellent Good Poor Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5-10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM OP-0085 OP-0086 OP6-O OP7-O OPA1 OPA2 OPB1 OPB2 OPC1 OPC2 OPC3 OP-COMBOX1 OP-OWS-1 OP-OWS-2 OP-SW1 OPW-7416NR PCR-01 PIA1 PIA2 PI-AGFT66 PI-AGFT74 PIB1 PIB2 PIC1 PIC2 PI-FTC3 PI-PLC1 PIUFT-55 PIUFT-59 PIUFT-62 PIUFT-63 RFR-9199 RFR-9200 RFZR-1100 RH01 RH02 RH03 DESCRIPTION Electric Hot Water Heater Air Compressor Underground Fuel Storage Tank Underground Fuel Storage Tank 2000Lbs. Hoist 2000Lbs. Hoist 4000Lbs.Hoist 4000Lbs.Hoist 4000Lbs.Hoist 4000Lbs.Hoist 1000 Lbs Hoist Communications Box (Stainless Steel) Oil/Water Separator Oil/Water Separator Switch Box Chest Freezer PCR/ Laminar Flow Enclosure 2000Lbs.Hoist 2000Lbs.Hoist Above Ground Fuel Storage Tank Above Ground Fuel Storage Tank 4000Lbs.Hoist 4000Lbs.Hoist 4000Lbs. Hoist 4000Lbs Hoist Fuel Truck Containment Slab Pipe Line End Containment Underground Fuel Storage Tank Underground Fuel Storage Tank Underground Fuel Storage Tank Underground Fuel Storage Tank Sanyo Display Case Refrigerator Sanyo Glass Door Refrigerator Refrigerator Freezer Combo Type 4000 Lbs. Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist 2000 Lbs Hoist LOCATED ORIENT POINT WAREHOUSE ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE ORIENT POINT ORIENT POINT ORIENT POINT / PASSENGER RAMP ORIENT POINT / PASSENGER RAMP ORIENT POINT / WEST FREIGHT RAMP / WEST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT / WEST FREIGHT RAMP / EAST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / WEST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / EAST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT ORIENT POINT OP PARKING LOT / SE CORNER OF SW LOT OP PARKING LOT / WEST OF FRIEGHT RAMP ORIENT POINT ORIENT POINT / WAREHOUSE BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A PLUM ISLAND / PASSENGER RAMP PLUM ISLAND / PASSENGER RAMP BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / SOUTH HOIST PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / NORTH HOIST TANK FARM / 103 PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND / OUTSIDE 101 PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / MOD-3 / N/A BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / BASEMENT / LAB-D BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / LAB-D / RM 184 PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / SOUTH HOIST PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / NORTH HOIST PLUM ISLAND / PASSENGER RAMP Page 42 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Good Fair Excellent Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair New New NEW Fair Fair Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5- 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM RH04 RH05 RH06 RH07 RH08 RH09 RH10 RH11 RH12 RH13 RHA-044 RHA-045 RHA-046 RHA-047 RHA-048 RHA-049 S-0001 SAFEBOAT23 SAFEBOAT27 SBP-001 SFAN-1 SFAN-2 SFAN-3 SFAN-4 SFAN-5 SFAN-6 SGEAR SRAC-1 SRAC-2 TWR-1 TWR-2 TWR-3 TWR-4 VAV-16-1 VAV-16-10 VAV-16-11 DESCRIPTION 2000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist (spare) 4000 Lbs Hoist 2000 Lbs Hoist 2000 Lbs Hoist 4000 Lbs Hoist Ramp Hoist Assy P.I. Ramp Hoist Asy.P.I. Ramp Hoist Asy.P.I. Ramp Hoist Asy.O.P. Ramp Hoist Asy. O.P. Ramp Hoist Asy.O.P. Overhead Eyewash/Shower Station 23' Safeboat 27' Safeboat Sewage Booster Pump # 1 Utility Plant Supply Fan Utility Plant Supply Fan Utility Plant Supply Fan Utility Plant Supply Fan Utility Plant Supply Fan Utility Plant Supply Fan Switchgear for Generators EDG-1, 2 & 3 Computer Room Air Conditioner Computer Room Air Conditioner Cooling Tower #1 Cooling Tower # 2 Cooling Tower # 3 Cooling Tower # 4 Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control LOCATED PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP PLUM ISLAND / WEST FREIGHT RAMP / WEST SIDE HOIST PLUM ISLAND / WEST FREIGHT RAMP / EAST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / WEST SIDE HOIST ORIENT POINT / EAST FREIGHT RAMP / EAST SIDE HOIST BLDG-103 / GENERATOR-ROOM ORIENT POINT / WEST FREIGHT RAMP ORIENT POINT / PASSENGER RAMP ORIENT POINT / PASSENGER RAMP ORIENT POINT / WEST FREIGHT RAMP PLUM ISLAND / PASSENGER RAMP PLUM ISLAND / EAST FREIGHT RAMP PLUM ISLAND / WEST FREIGHT RAMP ORIENT POINT / EAST FREIGHT RAMP ORIENT POINT / WEST FREIGHT RAMP ORIENT POINT / PASSENGER RAMP BLDG-101 (Laboratory) / FLOOR1 / SHREDDER RM PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA BLDG-102 (Decon) BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Mezzanine BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Generator Room BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / Switchgear Room BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / COMPUTER ROOM BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / COMPUTER ROOM BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-107 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / WAREHOUSE BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1629 (Library) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2601 (Center Conference RM) Page 43 Condition Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 2 - 4 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM VAV-16-12 VAV-16-13 VAV-16-14 VAV-16-15 VAV-16-16 VAV-16-17 VAV-16-18 VAV-16-19 VAV-16-2 VAV-16-20 VAV-16-21 VAV-16-22 VAV-16-23 VAV-16-24 VAV-16-25 VAV-16-26 VAV-16-3 VAV-16-4 VAV-16-5 VAV-16-6 VAV-16-7 VAV-16-8 VAV-16-9 VEH-10N DESCRIPTION Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control Variable Air Volume Control 1999 Ford F250 Pick-Up LOCATED BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2603 (DHS/ARS Office Area) / Southwest Corner BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2603 (DHS/ARS Office Area) / West Center BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2609 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2613 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2603 (DHS/ARS Office Area) / North BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2603 (DHS/ARS Office Area) / North East BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2623 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2621 (East Conference Room) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1602 (AUDITORIUM) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2603 (DHS/ARS Office Area) / East BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2600 (2ND Floor Lobby) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2620 (APHIS Office Area) / South East BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2620 (APHIS Office Area) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2620 (APHIS Office Area) / South BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2620 (APHIS Office Area) / South BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 2 / RM-2600 (2ND Floor Lobby) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1602 (AUDITORIUM) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1624 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1622 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1632 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1607 BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1629 (Library) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM-1629 (Library) PLUM ISLAND Page 44 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM VEH-13N VEH-15N VEH-16 VEH-17 VEH-18 VEH-19N VEH-21 VEH-22 VEH-24 VEH-26 VEH-29 VEH-30 VEH-32 VEH-33 VEH-35 VEH-4N VEH-5 VEH-55 VEH-6 VEH-61 VEH-62 VEH-63 VEH-64 VEH-65 VEH-66 VEH-67 VEH-7N VEH-85 VEH-86 DESCRIPTION 1999 Ford F350 4 X 4 Crew Cab 1999 Ford F350 4 X 2 Crew Cab Ford Ambulance - 1989 (Diesel) Ford Shuttle Van 1998 1998 Dodge Ram 3500 Dump Truck 1999 Ford Expedition 2Wd 5.4 Liter V-8 91 Ford Flatbed Truck (Diesel) 91 Ford Dump Truck (Diesel) 90 Gmc Garbage Truck 91 Kme Fire Truck 881 2008 Bluebird Bus 2008 Bluebird Bus with Handicap Lift 90 Bluebird Bus (Diesel) 90 Bluebird Bus (Diesel) 2003 Jeep Wrangler 1999 Ford Expedition 4 X 4 1998 Dodge Ram Pick-Up Windstar Van 1998 Astro Passenger Van LICENSE #24285 2000 Ford Ranger Regular Cab 4 X 2 Truck 2000 Ford Ranger Regular Cab 4 X 2 Truck LOCATED PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND Condition Poor Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Good Excellent Excellent Poor Poor Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Poor Fair Page 45

TE-THREE Estimated TTF Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years Should be Replaced Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years

2000 Ford F-150 Regular Cab 4 X 2 Truck PLUM ISLAND 2000 Ford F-150 Regular Cab 4 X 2 Truck 2000 Ford E-350 Super Duty Box Truck 2000 E-One Fire Truck 882 2002 E-One Ladder Truck 1999 Ford Ranger 2Wd 4.0 Liter V-6 1994 Mack Flatbed Truck International Tractor Truck PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND BLDG-035 PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM VEH-88 VEH-8D VEH-9 VEH-91D VEH-92 VEH-93 VEH-94 W-0006 W-0008 W-0012 W-0013 W-0014 W-0052 W-0053 W-0054 W-0086 W-0087 W-0088 W-0089 W-0090 W-0091 W-0093 W-0094 W-0095 W-0096 W-0097A W-0098 W-0100 W-0103 W-0106 DESCRIPTION 2005 International Fuel Truck Chevy Ambulance - 2008 (Diesel) Chevy S-10 4X2 2002 Ford F650 Line Bucket Truck 1993 Ford F800 Flat Bed Truck knucleboom 2007 Chevy Silverado 2500 Blue Ford F150 Pickup Revco Chest Freezer Revco Upright Freezer Forma Scientific Ln2 Freezer Revco Upright Refrigerator Thermo Ln2 Freezer Air Compressor Air Dryer Air Dryer Hossfeld Universal Iron Bender Peck,Stow & Wilcox,Jumpshear Peck,Stoe & Wolcox,Sheet Metal Roller Peck,Stow & Wilcox,Power Shear Chicago(Dreis & Krump) Bending Brake Do-All Band Saw Lincoln Arc Welder Lincoln Spool Gun Lincoln Control Module Pexto Edger Arc Welder And Related Equipment Miller Remote Amp Control Ridgid Pipe Threader Toledo Universal Power Drive Peck,Stow & Wolcox,Bending Brake LOCATED PLUM ISLAND BLDG-038 (Motor Pool) PLUM ISLAND BLDG-103 PLUM ISLAND PLUM ISLAND BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-100 (Admin Building) / FLOOR 1 / RM 1644 VACCINE BANK BLDG-060 (W) UTILITY ROOM UTILITY ROOM BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) Page 46 Condition Good Excellent Fair Fair Fair Excellent Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Excellent Fair Good Good Good Fair Good Fair Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 10 - 15 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM W-0109 W-0110 W-0111 W-0112 W-0113 W-0114 W-0115 W-0116 W-0117 W-0118 W-0119 W-0120 W-0121 W-0122 W-0123 W-0124 W-0125 W-0128 W-0129 W-0133 W-0134 W-0135 W-0136 W-0139 W-0143 W-0144 W-0145 W-0146 W-0147 W-0149 W-0150 DESCRIPTION W.A.Whitney Punch Peck,Stow & Wilcox (Pexto) Circle Cutter Dayton Spot Welder Roper Whitney (Pexto)Right Angle Shear Handnib Shear Ingels Elbow Machine Lockformer Cleatformer Delta Rockwell Drill Press Green Engraver Dayton Horizontal Bandsaw Schauer Bench Grinder Delta Bench Grinder Niagra Sheet Metal Roller Rockwell Bench Grinder Baldor Disk Sander L-Tec Plasma Cutter Fasco Fume Exhauster Dake Hydraulic Press Greenero Arbor Press Ridgid-Kollman Power Snake(Sewer) Electro-Acoustical Water Leak Detector Brilliant Abrasive Mason Saw Black & Decker Core Bore Amt Dust Collector Walker Turner Drill Press Hinson Pneumatic Paint Shaker Walker Turner Band Saw Ideal Stencil Machine Delta Milwaukee Crescent Table Saw Walker Turner Bench Grinder Delta Milwaukee Stationary Belt Sander LOCATED BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / WELDING SHOP BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) Page 47 Condition Good Good Good Good Good Good Fair Fair Poor Good Fair Good Good Good Fair Poor Good Fair Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Poor Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Good

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years Should be Replaced 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT THREE (3) - EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED EQNUM W-0152 W-0154 W-0155 W-0160 W-0161 W-0166 W-0167 W-163 W-164 W-170 W-3947 W-DF02 WELL-01 WELL-02 WELL-03 WELL-04 WELL-05 WELL-06 WELL-07 WELL-08 WELL-09 WELL-10 WELL-11 WELL-12 WELL-13 WELL-14 W-EYEWASH-1 W-EYEWASH-2 W-EYEWASH-3 WGE-10 W-OWH1335 WS-1 WS-2 DESCRIPTION Delta Radial Arm Saw Ln2 Tank / Trailer Ln2 Trailer Billy Pump 2 Inch Ln2 Tank/Trailer Horizontal Ln2 Storage Tank /Trailer Horizontal Ln2 Storage Tank / Trailer Sand / Salt Spreader Sand / Salt Spreader Dewalt Mitre Saw Backflow Preventer Exhaust Air Handler Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Fresh Water Well Eyewash/Shower Eyewash/Shower Eyewash/Shower Gasoline Hedge Trimmer Waste Oil Fired Heater Utility Plant Water Softener Utility Plant Water Softener LOCATED BLDG-060 (W) PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA BLDG-060 (W) PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA PLUM ISLAND / HARBOR AREA BLDG-067 BLDG-067 BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) / BOILER ROOM BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-059 (Water Treatment) BLDG-115 (Well&Fire PmpHouse) BLDG-115 (Well&Fire PmpHouse) BLDG-115 (Well&Fire PmpHouse) BLDG-115 (Well&Fire PmpHouse) BLDG-060 (W) / HWMA AREA BLDG-060 (W) / LAB AREA BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-060 (W) BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom BLDG-109 (Steam Plant) / BoilerRoom Condition Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Good Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Good Excellent Excellent

TE-THREE Estimated TTF 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 5 - 10 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 1 - 5 Years 5 - 10 Years 10 - 15 Years 10 - 15 Years

Page 48

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2007001 2007002 2007003 2007004 2007005 2007006 2007007 2007009 2007010 2007011 2007012 2007013 2007014 2007015 2007016 2007017 2007018 2007019 2007020 2007021 2007022 2007023 2007024 2007025 2007026 2007027 2007028 2007029 2007030 2007031 2007032 2007034 2007036 2007037 2007038 2007039 2007040 2007041 2007043 1 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Electronic Electronic Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Plant Equipment Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Vehicles Description Poulan Pro Tree Pruner M-40 Multi Gas Meter Confined Space Rescue Tripod MightEvac Rescue Winch Scott SkaPak Escape Systems Scott SkaPak Escape Systems ATD Vacuum Pump Wireless Speedlight Commander VibrAlign Laser Alignment Tool Garmin Vista C GPS Skil 8-1/4" Worm Drive Circular Saw Torque Wrench Torque Wrench Dieless Crimper Dieless Crimper Phasing Tester Impact Wrench Chain Saw 1-3/4" Rotary Hammer Drill Millers Falls 1/4" Drill Drain Cleaner 9" Disk Sander Powder Actuated Tool Rotary Hammer Torque Wrench Torque Wrench Torque Wrench Hydro Pump Parts washer Fyrite Pro Analyzer Skil Saw Dayton Back Pack Vacuum Dayton Portable Oil Fired Heater Crusader Blower Parker Portable Oil Filtration Cart SEM Model 6040P Paper Shredder Honda GM2513BS Rototiller Giant Vac Push Blower 23' Safeboat Serial Number N/A 704073338 N/A M156110 HM3794 HM3804 N/A N/A 13123 89722852 68612 DA02140 DDA02813 YM7140YF YW2774NL 41101 754A19445 952-051266 321657 CodeRK 1PVP0529 703D406110158 G369985 65069 DFE37534 DFC08291 DFE40533 C62207 IEL93-D-7 C001002 D-112606 N/A 308002384 5884 N/A 6211714 FAHJ-1009859 50134974 N/A Building Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 102 (Decon Plant) Building 102 (Decon Plant) Building 102 (Decon Plant) Building 102 (Decon Plant) Building 102 (Decon Plant) Building 107 (Chiller Plant) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 107 (Chiller Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $175 $400 $850 $900 $1,800 $1,800 $175 $250 $4,200 $200 $220 $150 $160 $2,000 $1,400 $2,900 $200 $240 $520 $100 $200 $170 $275 $250 $155 $120 $190 $180 $700 $1,500 $200 $175 $400 $200 $1,400 $8,300 $2,175 $850 $120,000

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2008002 2008003 2008004 2008005 2008006 2008007 2008008 2008009 2008010 2008011 2008012 2008013 2008014 2008015 2008016 2008017 2008018 2008019 2008020 2008021 2008022 2008023 2008024 2008025 2008027 2008028 2008029 2008030 2008031 2008032 2008033 2008034 2008035 2008036 2008037 2008038 2008039 2008040 2008041 2 of 17 Asset Type Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Vehicles Electronic Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Appliances Electronic Appliances Vehicles Powertools Description Megger Earth Tester Digital Ground Resistance Tester All-Test Pro 31 Motor Testing Device Echo SRM-260 String Trimmer Echo CS-306 Chainsaw Noyes Fiber Optic Loss Test Kit Brady IDXPERT Label Maker Ramset Powder Actuated Fastener Milwaukee 28v 6-/12"Cordless Circular Saw Milwaukee 28v Cordless Hammer Drill Milwaukee 28v Cordless Sawzall Dewalt DW618PK Router Northern Tool Portable Threader Northern Tool Portable Threader 45ft Crew Boat Fluke 322 Clamp Meter Blount 120ft Freight and Passenger Vessel 2008 Bluebird Bus 2008 Bluebird Bus w/ Handicap Access 2008 Chevy Ambulance Ford F150 Pickup (Blue) Mueler Cement Mixer White Trimmer/Mower Troybilt Lawn Edger Porter Cable 7812 Dry Wall Vacuum Milwaukee 4-1/2" Grinder Milwaukee 4-1/2" Grinder Hinson "Hula Girl" Paint Shaker Stihl MS260 Chain Saw Intercomp CW250 Platform Scale Hach 2800 Spectrophotometer Hach DRB200 COD Reactor North Star Electric Pressure Washer LUX UPRIGHT VACUUM CLEANER (2) Reliable Pressure Washer Minuteman Backpack Vac (C471) Cuisinart Ice Cream Maker Countertop Pretzel Machine Ford F800 Flatbed Truck with Hoist Dayton Wet/Dry Vac Serial Number DET3TC/071007/2057 2715 6033443 C08411022940 1W20LK004 / 1W19NR010 PGIXA733801089 G127553 A57A507420050 A55A507420796 A56B607110296 986545 N/A N/A N/A 97500667 N/A Building Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) M/V Blackburn Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 107 (Chiller Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 38 (Motor Pool) M/V Plum Island Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $700 $1,100 $300 $225 $2,300 $400 $360 $180 $180 $180 $200 $300 $300 $200,000 $100 $3,700,000 $120,000 $120,000 $80,000 $6,000 $1,200 $900 $300 $800 $100 $100 $400 $250 $1,000 $3,012 $657 $620 $200 $200 $300 $250 $500 $6,000 $110

1FTDF1727VN601675 125434 N/A 1E228K50526 579829 856H608201075 856H608201052 N/A 272611100 N/A 1211940 1209388 0908 2351 N/A 1050.... N/A N/A N/A Need Vin Number N/A

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2008042 2008043 2008044 2008045 2008046 2008047 2008048 2008049 2008050 2008051 2008052 2008053 2008054 2008055 2008056 2008057 2008058 2008059 2008060 2008061 2008062 2008063 TE-80005 TE-80007 TE-80009 TE-80010 TE-80011 TE-80012 TE-80013 TE-80014 TE-80015 TE-80016 TE-80017 TE-80018 TE-80019 TE-80020 TE-80023 TE-80024 TE-80025 3 of 17 Asset Type Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Description Dayton 1JYU2 Battery Charger Pexto Sheet Metal Shear Drake Haudraulic Press Delta Bench Grinder Pexto Sheet Metal Shear (G-52-A) Ingels Elbow Machine Pexto Right Angle Shear Miller Spot Welder Pexto Circle Cutter Do-All Band Saw Lockformer Cleat Former Pexto Sheet Metal Roller Pexto Bending Brake Federal Bending Brake Hossfeld Iron Bender Lincoln Welder Delta Rockwell Drill Press Dayton Horizontal Band Saw Lincoln Electric TIG-355 Welder Rockwell Model 7 Grinder Greenerd Arbor Press Rigid Pipe Threader Milfisk Vacuum (MN30200582) Titan Paint Sprayer (660EX) Marindas Scarifyer (RT320) Dewalt Wet/Dry Vac (DC500) South Bend Milling Press (3218) Delta Drill Press South Bend Lathe (CL187R) Delta Band Saw Delta Pedistal Grinder Parts Washer (C110) Shop Vac Wet/Dry Vac (QL20ATS) Dayton Wet/Dry Vac (4Z663E) Skil Saw Circular Saw (552) Dewalt 4-1/2" Angle Grinder (DW402) B&D 7" Disk Sander (4052) Rockwell 7" Disk Sander (470) Rockwell 7" Disk Sander (781) Serial Number N/A L-7182 N/A N/A M-222 N/A N/A N/A May-54 5318097 9579 N/A Dec-85 N/A N/A U1980904027 N/A N/A U1010507490 N/A N/A 7312... 3037409 N/A 9505-964 95603 N/A 114-3193 N/A 114-1887 1129435 6023342 N/A N/A N/A N/A 13704 43044 25396 Building Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $220 $200 $600 $200 $1,000 $500 $1,000 $750 $1,000 $1,000 $800 $750 $1,200 $1,800 $600 $600 $550 $600 $2,500 $250 $300 $600 $500 $600 $1,500 $75 $2,000 $1,500 $2,000 $2,000 $400 $300 $125 $125 $100 $125 $175 $175 $250

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80026 TE-80027 TE-80028 TE-80029 TE-80030 TE-80031 TE-80032 TE-80033 TE-80034 TE-80035 TE-80036 TE-80037 TE-80039 TE-80040 TE-80041 TE-80042 TE-80043 TE-80044 TE-80045 TE-80046 TE-80047 TE-80048 TE-80049 TE-80051 TE-80052 TE-80054 TE-80055 TE-80056 TE-80057 TE-80058 TE-80059 TE-80060 TE-80062 TE-80063 TE-80065 TE-80066 TE-80067 TE-80068 TE-80069 4 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Description Bosch Hammer Drill (11236VS) Bosch 1/2" Hammer Drill (11210VSR) Rockwell Hammer Drill Milwaukee 1-1/2" Hammer Drill (US15347) Ridgid 1/2" Drill (R5010) Milwaukee 3/8" Angle Drill (0375-1 Dewalt Jig Saw (DW321) Delta Drill Press (86-920) Delta Bench Grinder Fluke Multimeter (111) Craftsman Wet/Dry Vac (113) Fluke Elec. Tester (T5-1000) Dewalt 14.4v Cordless Drill (DW991) Craftsman Belt Sander (315) B&D Circular Saw Milwaukee 1/2" Drill (0234-1) Milwaukee 1/2" Drill (0235-1) B&D 3/8" Drill (1166) Skill Drywall Screw Driver (275) B&D 3/8" Drill (1575) B&D 3/8" Drill (118D-90) Makita Cordless Recip. Saw (4390D) B&D Recip. Saw (3105) Milwaukee Sawzall (6506) Remington Electric Chainsaw Rockwell Porta Band Saw (7721) Kett Metal Shears (E-140) Unishear Metal Shears (U212) Milwaukee Sawzall (6509) Triplett Tube Tester 3413-B Porter Cable Recip. Saw (746) Northern Impact Wrench (CT2631) Dewalt Cutoff Saw (DW874) Dewalt Chop Saw (DW703) Ridgid Pressure Washer (KJ-1750) Dayton Wet/Dry Vac (2Z564F) Delta Table Saw Shop Vac Wet/Dry Vac (464A) Dayton 129" Band Saw 37989 Serial Number 682000953 4680124 N/A 68886571 AE04056381 98341163 154773 1143206 SF1031206W N/A 94045V1460 N/A 91570 C0047 3038-90 5321750442 755B49840061 482469 N/A 19606 24425 144644A 78986 5412548 9803 5335 25141 7460985 A17A605 11980 990936 E210256 79231 185166 VAPC1893H99 N/A 114-4339 N/A 87456 Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $400 $200 $200 $350 $200 $150 $150 $500 $250 $200 $100 $100 $175 $125 $125 $175 $175 $75 $75 $125 $100 $100 $175 $150 $50 $350 $175 $350 $150 $300 $150 $75 $225 $200 $1,200 $100 $1,200 $125 $1,500

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80070 TE-80071 TE-80072 TE-80073 TE-80074 TE-80075 TE-80076 TE-80077 TE-80078 TE-80079 TE-80080 TE-80081 TE-80082 TE-80083 TE-80084 TE-80085 TE-80086 TE-80087 TE-80088 TE-80089 TE-80090 TE-80091 TE-80093 TE-80094 TE-80095 TE-80096 TE-80097 TE-80102 TE-80103 TE-80104 TE-80105 TE-80106 TE-80108 TE-80111 TE-80112 TE-80113 TE-80114 TE-80115 TE-80116 5 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Powertools Electronic Description Phoenix Hydaulic Press Ridgid Pipe Threader Delta Bench Grinder (23-103) Ridgid Pipe Freezer (SF-2500) Ridgid Power Snake (K-7500) Central Wire Spring Power Snake Ridgid Pipe Thread Tool (Handheld) 700 Wheel Ectric Power Snake Miller Spot Welder (LMSW52) Miller Welder (250P) Miller Dialarc Welder (HF-P) Milwaukee 1/2" Drill (0308-20) Dewalt 14.4v Cordless Drill (DC83) Dewalt Cordless Right Angle Drill (DW966) Delta Belt Sander (Floor Stand) Milwaukee 4-1/2" Angle Grinder (6140) Firepower Plasma Cutter (FP-50) AGM Welder (LS600) Tubarcrane Lift (TC-1) Powermover (PM5705) Ridgid Pipe Threader (300) Robinair Refrig. Recovery System (17500B) VaporMizer 2000 Edwards Vacuum Pump (E2V1) Edwards Vacuum Pump (E2V8) Edwards Vacuum Pump (E2V2) Thomas Scientific Vacuum Pump PHILLIPS HEARTSTART AED PHILLIPS HEARTSTART AED PHILLIPS HEARTSTART AED PHILLIPS HEARTSTART AED PHILLIPS HEARTSTART AED OHAUS UNIT SCALE SHURFLOW ELECTRIC TRANSFER PUMP WESCO INDUSTRIAL DRUM LIFTER WESCO INDUSTRIAL DRUM CART 1 TON HYDRAULIC ENGINE CRANE MDL 3ZC72K BULB EATER MODEL 55VRS Thermacam infrared imaging unit Serial Number N/A 427271 103MO6W 1218718 06961LC2 N/A EE76851E99 WE1772 KJ069256 71-591146 HH053612 4440755 856562 847811 N/A 762F805410274 N/A 92808 612 5030027-130 N/A 4483 N/A N/A 2149 11709 896 B06H-01750 B06H-01228 B06H-01332 B06H-01429 B06H-00677 MODEL CS 5000 4UN25 278752(3W390) 308TW FRAME053182 SS051227849 97306 25202424 Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) M/V JJ Calais M/V MS Shahan M/V JJ Calais Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 100 (Admin Building) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $1,500 $1,500 $200 $2,000 $2,250 $800 $700 $250 $550 $1,800 $1,500 $150 $225 $200 $500 $125 $1,500 $800 $600 $2,000 $2,000 $1,800 $1,200 $500 $600 $600 $700 $1,200 $1,200 $1,200 $1,200 $1,200 $100 $200 $125 $200 $400 $3,700 $15,000

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80117 TE-80118 TE-80125 TE-80126 TE-80129 TE-80131 TE-80133 TE-80134 TE-80135 TE-80150 TE-80151 TE-80152 TE-80153 TE-80154 TE-80155 TE-80156 TE-80157 TE-80159 TE-80162 TE-80287 TE-80288 TE-80289 TE-80290 TE-80291 TE-80292 TE-80293 TE-80294 TE-80295 TE-80296 TE-80297 TE-80299 TE-80301 TE-80302 TE-80303 TE-80305 TE-80306 TE-80307 TE-80308 TE-80309 6 of 17 Asset Type Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Description Rapport 337 Multi Functional CCTV Tester Rapport 337 Multi Functional CCTV Tester CARDIAC SCIENCE POWERHEART AED RADIATION DETECTION SURVEY METER CARDIAC SCIENCE POWERHEART AED 9300E-001 BCI FINGERPRINT PULSE OXIMETER Certek Formaldehyde Generator Neutraizer (1414RH) Topcon Auto Level (AT-G6) ProVision PV-2 Borescope Infocus Projector (LP540) Infocus Projector (LP540) Sony Camcorder (DSRPD170) Sony Camcorder (DSRPD170) Polycom Video Teleconference System Olympus Camedia Camera Sony Camcorder (DSR-PD150) Nikon Camera (D1X) Nikon Camera (D2X) Epson Stylus Pro 10600 Printer 5" Palm Sander (D26450) Alnor AXD 560 Micrommanometer Milwaukee 1/2" Drill 5378-20 4-1/2" Angle Grinder D28402 5" Palm Sander (D26450) Milwaukee 1/2" Hammer Drill (5376-1) Makita Narrow Belt Sander (7031) Milwaukee 8-1/4" Circular Saw (6378) Milwaukee 4" x 24" Belt Sander Robinair 25175B Refrigerant Recovery System Tubarcrane (Portable Lift) Craftsman Bench Grinder MILWAUKEE 4 1/2" GRINDER MAKITA BELT SANDER (9903) RAMSET POWDER FASTENER (SA270) DEWALT PLANER/MDL (DW680) DEWALT CORDLESS DRILL (DC988) DEWALT 3/8 DRILL (DW222) DEWALT 1/2 DRILL (DW236) DEWALT 3/8 DRILL (D21009) Serial Number 1383 4509 SN303756 100462 344101 703406089 2135 5Y3785 N/A ALSN4400547 ALSN4400489 1123257 1123259 84992900AEDFAO 10655537 1015095 5164396 N/A LR45841C 767A406320139 57017073 897C70 147258 9922847 819112 131761 621A80 767A406320139 504318 611 N/A 97514026 61026E 60361 394864 996124 887762 979614 10091 Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $500 $500 $1,800 $650 $1,800 $600 $5,250 $595 $595 $1,600 $1,600 $5,000 $5,000 $6,400 $1,500 $3,700 $4,000 $4,500 $10,000 $80 $500 $180 $80 $80 $180 $175 $250 $180 $750 $900 $100 $125 $150 $200 $175 $175 $100 $125 $100

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80310 TE-80311 TE-80312 TE-80313 TE-80314 TE-80315 TE-80316 TE-80318 TE-80319 TE-80320 TE-80321 TE-80322 TE-80323 TE-80324 TE-80325 TE-80326 TE-80327 TE-80329 TE-80330 TE-80331 TE-80332 TE-80333 TE-80334 TE-80335 TE-80336 TE-80337 TE-80338 TE-80339 TE-80340 TE-80341 TE-80342 TE-80343 TE-80344 TE-80345 TE-80346 TE-80347 TE-80348 TE-80349 TE-80350 7 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Vehicles Description BOSCH JIGSAW (1587AVS) BOSCH HAMMER DRILL (11224VSR) DEWALT REC CORDLESS SAW (DW938) MILWAUKEE BAND SAW (6230) BOSCH POWER CHISEL (11305) BOSCH ROUTER (1604) DEWALT 7" GRINDER (D28474) BRILLIANT CUTOFF SAW (5214) DAYTON WET/DRY VAC (3VE21) DAYTON WET/DRY VAC (3VE19) MILWAUKEE CHOP SAW (6175) DELTA RADIAL ARM SAW (0911) WALKER TURNER DRILL PRESS (1112-41) WALKER TURNER BAND SAW (5311) DELTA TABLE SAW DAYTON BELT/DISC SANDER (4TJ97A) DRIVER BENCH GRINDER ECHO CHAIN SAW (CS-4400) POULAN CHAIN SAW (P3416) HUSQVARNA CHAIN SAW (55 RANCHER) STIHL GAS LIMB TRIMMER (HT101) ECHO WEED WACKER (PAS-2400) ECHO WEED WACKER (PAS-2605) ECHO WEED WACKER SRM-210 LITTLE WONDER GAS TRIMMER MDL 2224D ECHO GAS BLOWER MDL PB-620 BLACK & DECKER PANEL SAW MDL64 RIDGID GAS POWRED SNAKE MDL K-1000 AMT DUST COLLECTOR MDL 4710 DOBBINS POWERSPRAYER MDL1071 WALKER TURNER SHAPER MDL 6110 NORTHERN IND. PLATE COMPACTOR MDL JPC-80 DELTA JOINTER MDL DEWALT PORTABLE COMPRESSOR MDL MK246 DEWALT PORTABLE TABLE SAW MDL DW744 DEWALT PORTABLE MITER SAW MDL DW703 DEWALT Circular Saw MDL DW368 PORTERCABLE TIGER SAW MDL 737 Gibson Cryogenics Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (400 Gal) Serial Number 11525 R182005978 896577 160088 9430284 1640715 19723 8603-B N/A N/A 97401146 LR2459 1000430 104 2125-B 200011 17854 114113 D301520-2 4HVXS.0535AA 4182-011-0613 508860 5017141 5266304 14637 9005558 6369604 2187 205432 888 298 226060 N/A 606014676 N/A 265250 344400 878894A30110 5039-6-355 Building Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $175 $200 $225 $350 $250 $175 $200 $500 $125 $100 $125 $400 $800 $1,200 $1,200 $400 $125 $200 $200 $350 $250 $225 $225 $225 $250 $325 $600 $800 $125 $500 $500 $1,000 $500 $300 $300 $350 $150 $175 $14,000

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80351 TE-80352 TE-80353 TE-80354 TE-80355 TE-80357 TE-80360 TE-80361 TE-80362 TE-80364 TE-80365 TE-80366 TE-80367 TE-80368 TE-80369 TE-80370 TE-80372 TE-80373 TE-80374 TE-80375 TE-80376 TE-80377 TE-80378 TE-80379 TE-80380 TE-80381 TE-80382 TE-80383 TE-80386 TE-80387 TE-80388 TE-80389 TE-80390 TE-80398 TE-80399 TE-80400 TE-80401 TE-80402 TE-80403 8 of 17 Asset Type Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Powertools Powertools Powertools Heavy Equipment Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Vehicles Vehicles Powertools Appliances Appliances Specialty Tools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Description Gibson Cryogenics Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (400 Gal) M.V.E. Inc. Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (HL-600) M.V.E. Inc. Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (300 Gal.) M.V.E. Inc. Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (300 Gal.) M.V.E. Inc. Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (HL-600) M.V.E. Inc. Nitrogen Tank/Trailer (HL-300) MONARCH DIGITAL TACH WALKER TURNER DRILL PRESS BALDOR BENCH GRINDER MDL C795 YARD MACHINES SNOWBLOWER (E700) DEWALT CORDLESS RECP SAW MDL DW008 DEWALT 1/2' RIGHT ANGLE DRILL MDL DW124 MILWAUKEE SCREW GUN MDL BJJB MITM GAS POWER WASHER MDL GP-3000-0MV 9HP NORTH STAR STEAM PRESSURE WASHER SHOPVAC MDL QULP650 Shop Vac (QULP650) Super Coach Backpack Vac (Pro-Team SCM-1282) Super Coach Backpack Vac (Pro-Team SCM-1282) Brother P-Touch Label Maker PT-1900 Super Coach Backpack Vac (Pro-Team MV-250) Dewalt 14.4v Cordless Drill (DW991) Dewalt 18v Cordless Drill (DW995) Dewalt 1/2" Drill (DW505) Milwaukee Heavy Duty 1/2" Drill(1680-1) Dayton Wet/Dry Vac (4YE65) MSS Shahan JJ Callis Dewalt Cordless Impact Wrench Pro-Team Mega Backpack Vac Pro Team Trail Vac Stanley Proto 6014C Torque Wrench Stanley Proto 6014C Torque Wrench Dewalt 18V Drill DC988 Titan Paint Sprayer (640ix) WELDER BEVER SALES WOOD CHIPPER (175) 1996 BACKHOE LOADER JOHN DEERE TRACTOR W/BUCKET Serial Number 5039-69 11579 5068-1 244 11663 243 N/A 51DM1A N21008 1G155B40285 5849 926750 704321998 19109908 7061855 52725-85 N/A 21-136824 21-136823 M3J591249 05-015152 157116 41432 839061 719A494470028 N/A N/A N/A 973405 05-022419 16-016919 DFK78271 DFA80720 849285 520501743 N/A 4P5SE1314MWU-20174 B44TCOT760707589 N/A Building Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) M/V MS Shahan M/V Plum Island Building 60 (Warehouse) M/V MS Shahan M/V MS Shahan M/V MS Shahan M/V MS Shahan M/V MS Shahan M/V JJ Calais Building 60 (Warehouse) M/V MS Shahan Building 100 (Admin Building) M/V MS Shahan M/V JJ Calais Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 22 (Corral) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 22 (Corral) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 67 (Landscaping) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $14,000 $33,400 $11,000 $11,000 $33,450 $11,000 $200 $500 $150 $600 $250 $250 $150 $450 $1,500 $100 $100 $300 $300 $150 $300 $150 $175 $125 $250 $75 $1,600,000 $1,200,000 $200 $800 $250 $150 $150 $200 $1,200 $8,500 $6,400 $36,500 $18,000

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80404 TE-80406 TE-80407 TE-80408 TE-80409 TE-80410 TE-80411 TE-80412 TE-80413 TE-80414 TE-80415 TE-80416 TE-80417 TE-80418 TE-80419 TE-80420 TE-80422 TE-80423 TE-80424 TE-80425 TE-80427 TE-80429 TE-80430 TE-80431 TE-80432 TE-80434 TE-80435 TE-80436 TE-80437 TE-80439 TE-80440 TE-80441 TE-80442 TE-80444 TE-80445 TE-80446 TE-80448 TE-80450 TE-80452 9 of 17 Asset Type Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Heavy Equipment Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Description JOHN DEERE DRESSER BULLDOZER TD15 YALE FORKLIFT WOODS ROTARY MOWER SIDE CUTTING FLAIL MOWER 50" Cub Cadet Lawn Mower Giant Vac Brush Cutter 72" RIDING LAWN MOWER KUT-KWIK RIDER MOWER SCAGG THREE WHEEL RIDER MOWER SCAGG THREE WHEEL RIDER MOWER DRAG LIVESTOCK TRAILER 40 FT MH EBY LIVESTOCK TRAILER 1991 FORD DUMP TRUCK (DIESEL) 1998 FORD SHUTTLE VAN 1991 FORD K64 FLATBED TRUCK 1998 DODGE RAM 3500 DUMP TRUCK 1989 FORD AMBULANCE (VEH-16) 1999 FORD F350 4X2 CREW CAB TRUCK 1999 FORD F350 4X4 CREW CAB TRUCK 1999 FORD F250 PICKUP 1998 CHEVY S-10 PICKUP 4X2 2000 FORD E-350 SUPER DUTY BOX TRUCK 2000 E-ONE FIRE TRUCK 1999 FORD RANGER V-6 2WD 4.0 LITER TRUCK TRACTOR 2000 FORD RANGER PICKUP 4X2 2005 INTERNATIONAL FUEL TRUCK 1994 MACK FLATBED TRUCK 1991 KME FIRE TRUCK 1990 BLUEBIRD BUS 1990 BLUEBIRD BUS 2003 JEEP WRANGLER 2000 FORD F-150 REGULAR CAB 2000 FORD RANGER PICKUP 4X2 1998 DODGE RAM PICKUP 1995 WINDSTAR VAN 1998 CHEVY ASTRO VAN 1990 GMC GARBAGE TRUCK Serial Number N/A N/A N433822 583653 RBF-0927 3515124261 41132550 558 N/A B3600075 B3600091 4FG-L0162-4-YC030067 N/A 1FDXK84A4MVA26423 1FBNE31L6WHA87841 1FDMK64P5MVA07441 386-MF3666WM-243285 1FDKE30M6KHC17079 1FTSW30L9XE 1FTSW31L0XE 1FTNF20L5XED46780 1GCCS14X1W8157549 1FDWE35F2YHB32342 4EN3AAA87Y1001267 1FTYR10X1XTA59594 1HSHBAZN1RH59183 1FTYR10X4YTA59557 1HTMMAMN46H291167 VG6BA09B5RB700796 1K9AF4282NN058646 1BAAGCSA4LF038351 1BAAGCSA6LF038349 1J4FA59533P300467 2FTZF1723YCA5321 1FTYR10X6YTA59558 3B7KC26Z3WM233832 2FMDA514XSBC96056 1GNDM19W8WB156567 1GDP7H1M1LJ603088 Building Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 22 (Corral) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $16,000 $90,000 $8,000 $7,200 $11,750 $5,000 $1,775 $7,500 $5,000 $8,000 $8,000 $11,500 $30,000 $33,000 $19,100 $17,700 $70,100 $48,850 $22,500 $25,600 $18,900 $13,600 $34,325 $252,000 $12,450 $14,000 $12,800 $71,725 $12,500 $183,500 $40,000 $40,000 $20,725 $13,700 $12,800 $17,800 $18,450 $20,450 $46,380

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80453 TE-80454 TE-80455 TE-80456 TE-80458 TE-80459 TE-80490 TE-80491 TE-80492 TE-80493 TE-80494 TE-80495 TE-80496 TE-80497 TE-80498 TE-80499 TE-80500 TE-80501 TE-80502 TE-80503 TE-80504 TE-80505 TE-80506 TE-80509 TE-80510 TE-80511 TE-80512 TE-80513 TE-80514 TE-80515 TE-80517 TE-80518 TE-80519 TE-80520 TE-80521 TE-80522 TE-80523 TE-80526 TE-80529 10 of 17 Asset Type Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Description UTILITY VEHICLE (EZ-GO1) UTILITY VEHICLE (EZ-GO2) SUMMIT ELECTRIC GOLF CART SUMMIT ELECTRIC GOLF CART 2000 FORD F-150 4X2 CAB TRUCK 5 TON EQUIPMENT TRAILER MILWAUKEE 1/2" DRILL INGERSOLL RAND 3/8" AIR RACHET INGERSOLL RAND 3/8" AIR RACHET INGERSOLL RAND 1/2" DRIVE AIR WRENCH MILWAUKEE SANDER/GRINDER MILWAUKEE REC SAW MDL 652121 NORTHSTAR PRESSURE WASHER DAYTON WET DRY VAC MDL 6Z095B BALDOR BENCH GRINDER WALKER TURNER DRILL PRESS Milwaukee Impact Wrench (9072) Target Core Bore (DR-150) Milwaukee Cordless Recip. Saw (6515-20) Dewalt 18v Cordless Drill (DW995) Milwaukee Band Saw (6225) Milwaukee Sawzall Recip. Saw (6511) Drill Doctor Bit Sharpener (750) Westward 1/2 Ton Lift (3Z27CJ) Dayton Wet/Dry Vac (3VE20) Milwaukee Chop Saw (6175) ALC Abrasive Blaster Dayton Bench Grinder (4Z909C) Large Horiz. Band Saw Ridgid Pipe Threader (300) Associated Battery Charger (6080A) Hobart Air Force 400 Plasma Cutter Honda EG3500X Generator Century 250 MIG Welder Goodway Soot Vac (GTC-540A) 20 gallon Shop Vac (6060) Milwaukee Metal Cutting Saw (6370-20) Milwaukee 1" Hammer Drill (5362-1) Brother P-Touch Label Printer PT-2600 Serial Number 1561220 1561252 5FCLS36AX61001156 5FCLS36AX61001157 2FTZF1722YCA53208 N/A 070A504350049 199E NO SERIAL IR2130 856E499433108 981C603410098 1.5755510806e+014 5271602 N21006 1 238A40412042 9305310 971C605170214 150728 457B497300325 460850726 4259 SS030303309 N/A 96011505 242746 200401 N/A 7557167 12926 LC690604 EA6-4015870 H696838 1963 N/A A35A904310201 707D60530182 F3J779184 Building Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 107 (Chiller Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $2,000 $2,000 $7,000 $7,000 $13,700 $4,500 $150 $100 $100 $200 $150 $150 $400 $300 $200 $500 $200 $1,800 $250 $175 $300 $225 $150 $500 $100 $150 $350 $150 $750 $500 $250 $300 $500 $1,800 $400 $125 $300 $275 $150

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80530 TE-80531 TE-80532 TE-80533 TE-80534 TE-80535 TE-80536 TE-80537 TE-80538 TE-80539 TE-80540 TE-80541 TE-80542 TE-80550 TE-80551 TE-80552 TE-80553 TE-80554 TE-80555 TE-80556 TE-80557 TE-80558 TE-80559 TE-80560 TE-80561 TE-80563 TE-80564 TE-80565 TE-80566 TE-80568 TE-80570 TE-80571 TE-80572 TE-80574 TE-80576 TE-80577 TE-80580 TE-80581 TE-80582 11 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Plant Equipment Plant Equipment Powertools Plant Equipment Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Description Amtek Digital Tach MDL 1726 Chance High Voltage Meter MDL C403-0979 Electrocatalytic Inc Corrision Potential Meter MDL 33419-3 Amprobe Data Logger/Recorder MDL DMII Pro Dayton Wet/Dry Vac (D457C) Hydraulic Nut Splitter / model NC1924 Hydraulic Nut Splitter / model NC3241 Baldor bench grinder Dayton wet/dry vac model: 4TB87 Speedaire Aircompressor model 4B228E ECHO CHAINSAW 14' Coleman Pressure Washer DAYTON PNEUMATIC NAILGUN 18GA HENRY LOUIS MICROSCOPE HACH DO METER SensION 6 HACH DO METER SensION1 AMERICAN WEIGH 75 SCALE DIGITAL POST WELCH VACCUM PUMP MDL 2534B-01 THERMO DRYING OVEN MDL 6550 BARNSTEAD THERMOLYNE 1400 FURNACE HACH BACTERIAL INCUBATOR MDL 15320-00 HACH INCUTROL MDL 2597A HACH BACTERIAL INCUBATOR MDL 15320-00 LMI PUMP #1 MDL P141-352SI LMI PUMP #1 MDL P141-352SI CH&E DIAPHRAM PUMP MDL 5AQ-WR HONDA TRASH PUMP MDL WT40XWAG HYDROFORCE PRESSURE WASHER MDL3000 HOMELITE PUMP MDL AP-125 MILWAUKEE SAWALL MDL 18V ECHO WEED WACKER MDL2400 TANAKA WEED WACKER MDL TBC-2251 LITTLE WONDER HEDGE TRIMMER MDL 1600SE HACH SensION 2 PH METER SHOP-VAC 6.5 HP Hipotronics (Hubbell) Thumper (CF30-8-P) Dayton Speedair Gas Powered Compressor (4B241B) Brigas and Stratton Portable Generator (030209) Milwaukee 1/2" Drill (0300-20) Serial Number N/A N/A N/A 31279 N/A A3705BT A3905BT X0505237054 52729-30 L11/02/02-00067 2037706 E17211201 TE1102 702725 N/A 06060C510050 N/A 10600000428 601243 N/A 890301995 880607485 890301997 20021017375 Back of Unit / No access D0412062 GC05-3036380 N/A HB1331447 918B397152286 190255 Y304264 61902 40200002782 N/A M9806146 l8/23/2005-00100 1011053340 070A507040378 Building Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 105 (Water Treatment) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $200 $400 $250 $1,000 $75 $1,200 $2,200 $250 $100 $200 $200 $800 $150 $500 $750 $425 $250 $600 $500 $1,000 $1,000 $150 $1,000 $450 $450 $1,000 $1,800 $1,500 $450 $200 $250 $250 $250 $550 $125 $7,625 $1,200 $1,200 $180

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80583 TE-80584 TE-80585 TE-80586 TE-80587 TE-80588 TE-80599 TE-80600 TE-80601 TE-80602 TE-80603 TE-80604 TE-80605 TE-80607 TE-80608 TE-80609 TE-80610 TE-80611 TE-80612 TE-80613 TE-80614 TE-80615 TE-80616 TE-80617 TE-80618 TE-80619 TE-80620 TE-80621 TE-80622 TE-80623 TE-80624 TE-80625 TE-80626 TE-80627 TE-80629 TE-80630 TE-80631 TE-80632 TE-80633 12 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Appliances Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Description B & D Jigsaw JS700 1/2" Porter Cable Drill (639) Stanley Hydraulic Pole Saw Husquvarna Gas Pole Saw Tanaka Weed Wacker (TBC-2251) Bosch Brute Jack Hammer TOASTER AMBASSADOR STEAM CLEANER (C46000-00) LUX UPRIGHT VACUUM CLEANER FRONT RUNNER FLOOR MACHINES (4YH91) ELECTRIC BURNISHER HOOVER CONQUEST UPRIGHT VAC (1810) BISSELL PROHEAT (7920-S) DAYTON WET /DRY VAC (3VE30) HUSKY POWERWASHER (1750) Milnor Washer (30022U6J) Continental-Girbau Washer (L1050PM21010) Huebsch Dryer (HT075S0MB1G1W01) Continental-Girbau Dryer (CG75-85) Minuteman Rapidair Blower (C42000-01) Minuteman Rapidair Blower (C42000-01) Minuteman Backpack Vac (C471) Refrigerators: standing reach in Refrigerators: standing reach in Refrigerators: standing reach in Refrigerators: on the counter (GDM-05PT) Refrigerators: on the counter (GDM-05PT) Refrigerators: on the counter (GDM-05PT) Refrigerators: walk in Freezer: in the counter Freezer: walk in Meat Slicer Meat Slicer Bunn 29" Coffee Maker Microwave Toaster Mixer Pannini maker Deep fryer Serial Number N/A 11874 9523 953-04-52-Q 4304271 583001235 #93100 XPRS ZC46100001014 N/A W4YH910851 XM24000001069 N/A 05160202H N/A 505188766 100678801 1023727F05 109015708 474489 ZC42000016746 ZC42000016677 AC47001006 T67914D04 T62524A04 T65859C04 3919417 3919421 3919427 81982931 SAB3712 82419931 527485 NA ITCB007663 11747459CT 2002.46/7/C 012490AG0 NA NA Building Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 67 (Landscaping) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active

TE-FOUR Est. Value $75 $180 $250 $200 $200 $1,200 $500 $300 $200 $400 $500 $200 $500 $100 $300 $5,000 $7,000 $4,000 $5,000 $250 $250 $300 $4,000 $4,000 $4,000 $1,500 $1,500 $1,500 $10,000 $1,500 $10,000 $1,400 $1,400 $250 $300 $100 $100 $1,000 $1,200

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID TE-80634 TE-80635 TE-80636 TE-80637 TE-80638 TE-80639 TE-80640 TE-80641 TE-80643 TE-80644 TE-80645 TE-80646 TE-80647 TE-80650 TE-80651 TE-80652 TE-80653 TE-80654 TE-80658 TE-80660 TE-80675 TE-80676 TE-80677 TE-80678 TE-80679 TE-80132 2009000 2009001 2009002 2009003 2009004 2009005 2009006 2009007 2009008 2009009 2009010 2009011 2009012 13 of 17 Asset Type Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Appliances Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Powertools Specialty Tools Electronic Electronic Electronic Description Stove Conventional oven Hot dog machine Dishwasher Crockpots Crockpots Crockpots Flat top grill Blender Electric coffee urns Electric coffee urns Electric coffee urns Electric coffee urns Heat lamp Heat lamp Fan Cash register Calculator Printer Ice Machine / Water Dispenser Dewalt 18v Cordless Drill (DC988) Validator Network Tester Fluke Network Tester 97 EF Johnson Radios 22 Low Band Pagers (Fire Brigade) EXTECH SOUND LEVEL METER RS 232 INTERFACE Elcometer Concrete Covermeter Nikon Coolpix L6 Fuji Finepix A500 SOC Battery Load Tester Dewalt 18v Cordless Drill Round Head Framing Nailer Canon Powershot A590IS iRobot Roomba 610 Porter Cable Roofing Coil Nailer Tapco Flashing Bending Brake Multi Gas Detector Multi Gas Detector Multi Gas Detector Serial Number NA NA NA NA Building Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Not Located Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Status Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Active Missing Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09

TE-FOUR Est. Value $5,000 $3,000 $350 $5,000 $150 $150 $150 $1,000 $150 $95 $95 $95 $95 $150 $150 $25 $1,000 $100 $200 $1,500 $175 $1,000 $150 $143,000 $8,228 $350 $3,000 $125 $100 $2,500 $200 $200 $125 $600 $200 $1,300 $1,000 $1,000 $1,000

NA NA 51BL32 NA NA NA NA 23460 NA NA 63P16305NA 2D189320 N/A Back of Unit / No access 963039 003817-0100 8838009 N/A N/A Z094523 EL006 30135396 6CA36700 X02-Q09-A15133 N/A 10BA64121 8322403923 070389 40BA26909 10558 A5-100583 A5-100530 A5-100556

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2009013 2009014 2009015 2009016 2009017 2009018 2009019 2009020 2009021 2009022 2009023 2009024 2009025 2009026 2009027 2009028 2009029 2009030 2009031 2009032 2009033 2009034 2009035 2009036 2009038 2009039 2009040 2009041 2009042 2009043 2009044 2009045 2009046 2009047 2009048 2009049 2009050 2009051 2009052 14 of 17 Asset Type Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Specialty Tools Electronic Heavy Equipment Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Electronic Electronic Specialty Tools Electronic Powertools Vehicles Electronic Electronic Description Ridgid Pipe Pressing Tool Kit Solaris (MSA) Multi Gas Detector Canon Digital Camera Canon Digital Camera Canon Digital camera Dewalt 7" Disk Sander Posi Lock Gear & Bearing Puller Air data Electronic Manometer Ingersol Rand Diesel Air Compressor Flex Concrete Cutter Dewalt Cordless Caulking Gun Dewalt18V Cordless Reciprocating Saw Dewalt 18V Cordless Drill Xerox Phaser 7760 Color Laser Printer Fuji Film Pictrography 4500N Anritsu MT9083A1 Fiber Optic Tester Dewalt DC926 18v Cordless Drill Dewalt DW990 14.4v Cordless Drill RayTek Raynger ST IR Thermometer Kawatetsu Ultrasonic Thickness Indicator Bosch 1297D 4" Sander Makita GV5000 5" Disk Grinder WESTWARD AIR C0MPRESS0R Dayton Large Wet/Dry Vac SUPER VAC VENTILATOR FAN JLG 20AM Vertical Lift Dewalt DW840 7" Angle Gribder Poerter Cable 7301 Laminate Trimmer Porter Cable 343 5" Orbital Sander L-TEC PCM750i Plasma Cutter Napa 6-767 1/2" Air Rachet Fluke 88 Multimeter Kit KAL OBDII Code Scanner Coats Rim Clamp 5060AX Tire Changer Garrett Superwand Metal Detector Dayton 3VE20 Wet/Dry Vac Ford F650 Supercab with Bucket Lift Fluke 179 Multimeter Fluke PV350 Pressure/ Vacuum Module Serial Number Q0809339 A5-10055512 83224117298 8322417578 8322417577 937916 N/A M09221 N/A 47438 11090 976568 929927 797382 864463 6200776335 976599 27077 2740320401-0011 301864 788001742 11443A A08007 N/A 91F048 05415638 468038 20091649 20080249 A94B5391 B0704085 92580531 54605 9807101013 49092182 N/A FDIOX65H9ZMA02638 980004999 N/A Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Status Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09

TE-FOUR Est. Value $3,000 $1,000 $100 $100 $100 $175 $125 $2,000 $4,000 $700 $270 $250 $200 $6,000 $6,200 $12,000 $200 $175 $200 $200 $100 $100 $200 $200 $500 $6,500 $125 $150 $75 $600 $125 $300 $175 $4,500 $250 $100 $45,000 $275 $350

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2009053 2009054 2009055 2009500 2009501 2009502 2009503 2009504 2009505 2009506 2009507 2009508 2009509 2009510 2009511 2009512 2009514 2009515 2009516 2009517 2009518 2009519 2009520 2009521 2009522 2009523 2009524 2009525 2009526 2009527 2009528 2009529 2009530 2009531 2009532 2009533 2009534 2009535 2009536 15 of 17 Asset Type Appliances Specialty Tools Vehicles Electronic Electronic Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Description Cuisinart/Waring 3.5qt Food Processor OTC 6000lb Portable Lift 2002 E-One Ladder Truck Ativa Paper Shredder Amprobe Amp Meter Dewalt 4-1/2" Angle Grinder Fluke Digital Thermometer Fluke Digital Thermometer Fluke Digital Thermometer Fluke Digital Thermometer Fluke Multimeter Weller 8200 Soldering Gun Motorola Walkie Talkie Motorola Walkie Talkie Motorola Walkie Talkie Motorola Walkie Talkie Dewalt 1/2" 14.4v Cordless Drill Dewalt Portable Air Compressor Craftsman 16 Gal. Wet/Dry Vac Craftsman 20 Gallon Wet/Dry Vac Dewalt Orbital Sander Digi-Sense- Scanning Thermometer TSI, Velocicale, Velocity Meter Drager Accuro 2000 Air Sampling Unit Drager Accuro 2000 Air Sampling Drager Accuro 2000 Hand Pump Drager Accuro 2000 Hand Pump ATI Aerosol Photometer SPAN 0-60 Pressure Gauge TSI VelociCale Velocity Meter Extech Thermo-Anemometer ATI Aerosol Generator ATI Aerosol Generator Shortridge Direct Airflow Reading Shortridge Direct Airflow Reading Instrument ATI Aerosol Generator Dale Safety Analyser Davis Light Meter TSI velociCale Plus Velocity Meter Serial Number N/A N/A 4EN3AAA8X21004624 71104 N/A 260064 SS104661 91010051 72370106 88970020 83610174 N/A 158JJGH935 158JJGH939 158JJGH916 158JJGHXXX 979119 2802023982 N/A N/A 992851 99005552 00100576 Type 6400200 ARNM-0079 ARJH-F004 ARKJ-F014 12219 MC004332 99060230 Q131193 19510 14039 M99716 M99030 950323 495131 L508561 5570415 Building Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Status Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09

TE-FOUR Est. Value $250 $5,000 $504,394 $500 $100 $120 $100 $100 $100 $100 $175 $50 $100 $100 $100 $100 $150 $250 $100 $100 $100 $1,500 $600 $1,200 $550 $350 $350 $1,200 $50 $600 $250 $1,200 $1,200 $900 $900 $1,200 $500 $200 $600

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2009537 2009538 2009539 2009540 2009541 2009542 2009543 2009544 2009545 2009546 2009547 2009548 2009549 2009550 2009551 2009552 2009553 2009554 2009555 2009556 2009557 2009558 2009559 2009560 2009561 2009562 2009563 2009564 2009565 2009566 2009567 2009568 2009569 2009570 2009571 2009572 2009573 2009574 2009575 16 of 17 Asset Type Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Powertools Specialty Tools Powertools Powertools Specialty Tools Description Digit- Sense-Scanning Thermometer Extech Heavy Duty Light Meter Extech Heavy Duty Vibration Meter Sper Light Meter UVP BlackRay UV Meter Ashcroft Pressure Gauge Ashcroft Pressure Gauge Span 0-60 Pressure Gauge Barnant-Scanning Thermometer Drager Accuro 2000 Hand Pump. Drager Accuro 2000 Air Sampling Unit Drager Accuro 2000 Hand Pump Drager Accuro Hand Pump Fluke Safety Analyser Dale Safety Analyser Sper Sound Level Meter Fisher Digital Humidity/Temp Meter Quest Sound Level Meter(1100) Quest Sound Level Meter (1100) Quest Noise Data Logger Extech Heavy Duty Light Meter TSI VelociCale Velocity Meter UVP BlackRay UV Meter Dale Safety Analyser ATI Aerosol Photometer Span0-60 Pressure Gauge Quest Sound Level Calibrator Quest Vibration Meter Quest Sound Level Meter Quest Sound Level Calibrator Flex M1509 Joint Cutter Milfisk Vacuum (MN30200582) Makita JR3070CT Reciprocating Saw Liftrite Tital Pallet Jack Bosch 1773AK Sargent Welch Direct Torr Vacuum Pump Dewalt DW991 14.4v Cordless Drill Dewalt DC935 14.4v Cordless Drill Ridgid RT3422 Tapping Tool Serial Number 99005541 Q147457 Q265200 22450 44261 8906 E036779 MC003486 B01003226 ARXJ-F001 ARUM 0062 ARZF-F002 ARZE-F002 9077005 905317 O139022 L635261 RCA10001 DBE0400009 GV2090002 Q019818 99060231 24906 494833 16024 MC003484 QOA070032 QH6090022 EV3020037A QIH020045 91073 N/A 0151821 N/A 982000233 3620 157131 956268 N/A Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Status Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09 Added 09

TE-FOUR Est. Value $1,500 $175 $400 $175 $600 $75 $75 $50 $1,200 $350 $1,200 $350 $350 $500 $500 $250 $1,200 $1,200 $1,200 $400 $175 $600 $600 $500 $1,200 $50 $400 $800 $800 $400 $250 $500 $200 $300 $400 $300 $175 $175 $2,300

As of June 30, 2009

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT FOUR (4) - GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT Asset ID 2009576 2009577 2008001 TE-80507 TE-80527 TE-80606 TE-80661 2007033 2008026 TE-80006 TE-80038 TE-80161 TE-80300 TE-80317 TE-80426 TE-80428 Asset Type Powertools Powertools Electronic Powertools Powertools Powertools Appliances Powertools Powertools Powertools Powertools Electronic Powertools Powertools Vehicles Vehicles Description Black & Decker 758 Core Bore Black & Decker Reddi Rodder Snake Amprobe TIC 300HV Tracer Dayton 1 Gal. Wet/Dry Vac (1D457C) Simpson Multi Meter MDL 12389 BOSCH VACUUM CLEANER (VBBS700) Kitchen Aid Food Processor Battery Charger Makita Plate Joiner Aurand Scarifyer Dewalt 14.4v Cordless Drill (DW984) Polycom Teleconferencing Unit (VTX1000) DEWALT ORBITAL SANDER (DW420) PORTER-CABLE LAMINATE TRIMMER (3101) 1998 CHEVY S-10 PICKUP 1990 BLUEBIRD BUS Serial Number 86080312 N/A 95840015 N/A N/A BSG7136OUC/07 WHT2616597 3LE84N 35493 3202M 979801 B20541009B83 928253 167008 1FBNE31L6WHA87841 1BAAGCSA2LF038350 Building Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 103 (Old Utility Plant) Building 109 (New Utility Plant) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 60 (Warehouse) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Lab 101 (Main Laboratory) Building 100 (Admin Building) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 60 (Warehouse) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Building 38 (Motor Pool) Status Added 09 Added 09 Reinstated Reinstated Reinstated Disposed 09 Disposed 09 Removed Removed Removed Removed Removed Removed Removed Removed Removed

TE-FOUR Est. Value $700 $200 $90 $100 $200 $200 $200 $420 $200 $500 $200 $800 $75 $150 $16,550 $40,000

Starting Balance Items Added Items Disposed/Removed Ending Balance

# of Units 505 135 11 629

Dollar Value $9,260,962.00 $656,574.00 $59,295.00 $9,858,241.00

17 of 17

As of June 30, 2009

Plum Island Animal Disease Center Cafeteria Menu

< = Heart Healthy Food Choice
11/16/09

Monday
Soup Salad bar Special Sandwich Dessert

<Tomato Vegetable Barley < Chick Peas Bourbon Roast Beef and Cheese Carrot Cake

Tuesday
Soup Salad bar Special Sandwich Hot Lunch Dessert

11/17/09
White Bean and Meatball < Asian Slaw Asian Chicken Wrap Grilled Vegetable Lasagna Lemon Meringue Pie

Wednesday
Soup Salad bar Special Sandwich Dessert

11/18/09
Beef Mushroom < Pickled Beets Turkey Salad on Croissant Oreo Crunch Cake

Thursday
Soup Salad bar Special Sandwich Hot Lunch Dessert

11/19/09
< Chicken Vegetable Soup Pepperoncini Country Fried Steak with Gravy on a Roll Turkey Chili Casserole Banana Chocolate Pound Cake

Friday
Soup Salad bar Special Sandwich Dessert

11/20/09
Mediterranean Grilled Eggplant Three Bean Salad Fried Flounder with Lettuce on Whole Wheat German Butter Cake

Monday and Wednesday Cheese Pizza only

Deli Meat Monthly Special:

Select it under sandwiches

Bologna

Plum Island Ferry Schedule
Effective as of 11/24/09

Weekday Departure Times
Orient Point, NY ~ Plum Island
Leaving Orient Point Leaving Plum Island

Saybrook Point, CT ~ Plum Island
Leaving Saybrook Point Leaving Plum Island

0600 0700 0800 0930 *1115 1400 1500 *1555 1730 *1815 2300

0630 0730 0830 1100 1330 1430 1530 1630 1800 *2030 2330

0615 0745 *1215 *1530 *1930

0700 *1130 1445 1615 *1845

* Trips only run if requested To Schedule:

Call (631) 323-3300 After 18:00 or Weekends & Holidays: Call PIADC C.C. (631) 323-3115

2100 PI-OP-OS & 2200 OS-OP-PI trips are available by special request only12 hours advance notice and Director of Operations approval required. 1000 PI-OP & 10:30 OP-PI mission critical trips are available with 1 hour advance notice.

Weekend / Holiday Departure Times
Orient Point, NY ~ Plum Island
Leaving Orient Point Leaving Plum Island

Saybrook Point, CT ~ Plum Island
Leaving Saybrook Point Leaving Plum Island

0700 *0745(via SP) *1130 1500 *1600 *1650 1900 2300

0730 *1100 *1445 1530 *1630 1930 2330

*0845 *1350 *1800(via OP)

0730(via OP) *1300 *1715

Additional Information
For delay or cancellation information call:

PIADC Weather Line (631) 323-3323

* Only if requested. Call (631) 323-3300 to schedule, (631) 323-3115 after 18:00, Weekends/Holidays.

AAALAC Maintenance Checklist

Room / Space
Review Date:

Reviewed by:

Area

Category

Component

Check Point

Acceptance Criteria

Acceptable

Unacceptable

Corrective Action Completed

Problem Corrected

General

Verify The Door Markings

Verify smoke test date.

Inspect all hardware including utility tables, cages and latches.

The room number should be clearly marked on all entrances to the room. If Annual test is due within 4 weeks, or if animal room activities are expected to run past annual deadline then perform smoke test and inform Work control. Equipment should be free of sharp edges, rust, loose paint and broken fittings. Repair or replace item sas needed.

Feed chutes and concrete troughs removed.

If feed Chutes are still present, schedule their removal.

Masonry

Hardware

Check the gate chains.

Check the condition of the galvanized railing.

Galvanized railing should be stripped of paint.

Hangers, hardware, etc...

Repair if link is worn more than 1/3 through. Sand and repair nicks and scratches with cold galvanizing compound. Remove paint from these surfaces and repair galvanizing as needed. Fittings should be firmly attached to walls & ceilings without voids and properly bedded with sealant and or gaskets.They must all be free of rust. Replace as needed.

Check the Squeeze gates.

Should function properly and be undamaged.

Doors

View ports

Inspect view port windows.

Hinges

Check the door hinges for proper operation;

Gasket/Seals

Check the general condition of the door gasket.

There should be no cracks or missing sealant. Doors should swing freely in the full range of motion. Adjust and lubricate as needed. It should be free of cuts, scrapes, and should be adhered to the door all the way around.

Check the condition of the gasket tube. Check gasket and gasket tube for leaks using soap and water solution.

Check the gasket sealing surface of the door frame.

There should be no cracks or kinks in the tube. There should be no leaks. Repair or replace gasket as needed. There surface should be smooth. There should be no corrsion or deformities which might interfere with the gaskets seal.

Air Valves

The valve position should be indicted on the door with labels.

Replace missing labels as needed.

Check the operation of the air vavle.

It should move in the full range of motion to each side.

Verify the operation of the air gasket check valve; perform a pressure test. Check the system for leaks using a soap and water solution.

It should not leak by. There should be no leaks. Repair or replace parts as needed.

Finishes

Floor

Check the condition of the floor finish. Does the floor texture meet the standard after repair?

Walls

Check the condition of the walls.

Check the wall penetrations to the space.

Inner Doors

Check for the presense of rust.

There should be no cracks or lifting sections of paint. The floor should have a suitable no-skid surface. There should be no cracks or lifting sections of paint. There should also be no discoloration of the paint (I.e. rust). There should be adequate sealant around every wall penetration. Remove all rust fom the Doors. Feather edges in and prime/repaint.

Check for the presense of excess paint.

Feather in thick spots or excess drips and

Page 1 of 2

AAALAC Maintenance Checklist

Mechanical

HVAC

Supply

Check the air supply in CFM:

Pressure

Check the Magnehelic gage at the room enterance.

Measure the air flow to the room. It should be between 10 - 15 changes per hour. Ther ventilation shoulbe maintaining a negative pressure of 0.1" of water.

Plumbing

Drains

Check drain cover general condition.

Check operation of all floor drains

Covers should not be bent or have any cracks. Replace as needed. They should flow freely with at least one washdown hose at full pressure.

Washdowns

Check the watering devices and water spouts. Check the condition of the hoses. Ensure that the washdown warning is clearly stenciled adjacent to washdown station.

They should operate properly. Hose should not have any defects:cuts, tears, leaks Warning/instructions should be cearly marked. Restencil as needed.

Check the operation of all sink and shower fixtures.

Valves should operate properly.

Shower/Sink

Check the water supply in the sinks and showers.

Check the operation of shower diverter valves.

Check Shower heads

Check the shower curtain (as applicable)

The shower must be supplied with hot and cold water. There should be no leaking/dripping valves. Repair as needed. They should be free of calcium build up with all nozzles spraying. The curtains should be clean with no rips holes, tears, or stains.

Check the soap trays.

They should be clean with no corrosion.

Elec

Lights

Check light switches.

Check the light fixtures

Each should operate correctly. Replace any bad components as needed. (i.e. bulbs, ballasts)

Check the lightcovers

Check for proper operation of light timers.

Power

Check all outlets in the room.

They should not be missing any latches. They should be clean and with no cracks. Replace or repair as needed. Make sure that the timers operate correctly and that they are set in accordance with the desires of the animal care takers. Make sure that each outlet has power and is in good physical condition.

Test GFCI capability of all applicable outlets.( if equipped)

Replace if it does not function correctly.

Other Items

AS Found

CC: O&M Contractor Quality Control DHS Science Lead

Date: Task performed by: Signature:
Last Revision: 1/17/06

Animal Care Veterinarian

101 Manager:

Animal Care Supervisor Biological Safety Officer Center Director

Page 2 of 2


                                          Technical Exhibit 13 â License and Certification Requirements


|Description                                                            |Functional Alignment                                                                            |Regulatory Compliance                          |
|USCG 100 Ton Inland Waterway License                                   |Marine Vessel Operations and maintenance (Master captain)                                       |                                               |
|Radar certification                                                    |Marine Vessel Operations and maintenance (Masters, able body seamen, deckhands)                 |                                               |
|Commercial Drivers License (CDL)                                       |Transportation:                                                                                 |                                               |
|                                                                       |bus drivers                                                                                     |                                               |
|                                                                       |fire truck drivers                                                                              |                                               |
|                                                                       |animal truck/trailer                                                                            |                                               |
|                                                                       |fuel oil trucks                                                                                 |                                               |
|Pesticide applicator licenses from NY State (3A and 9)                 |Weed control management program                                                                 |                                               |
|                                                                       |Use of formaldehyde in the airlocks                                                             |                                               |
|Unlimited CFC license                                                  |Operation and maintenance of boiler plant, chiller plant, and refrigeration equipment           |                                               |
|Current NY State Grade 3A Wastewater Treatment Plant License           |Operation and maintenance of Wastewater Treatment Plant                                         |NY State & Suffolk County Dept of Health       |
|                                                                       |                                                                                                |Services potable water employee license        |
|                                                                       |                                                                                                |requirements                                   |
|NY State Electrician license                                           |Electrical Distribution and Power Generation Services                                           |                                               |
|Low voltage wiring and FO cable management, installation, splicing     |Computer Alarm Applications                                                                     |                                               |
|qualifications                                                         |                                                                                                |                                               |
|NY State Class IIA Public Water System Certification                   |Water Plant                                                                                     |                                               |
|Firefighter Level I certification                                      |                                                                                                |                                               |
|New York State or National Certified Critical Care Emergency Medical   |Fire, Rescue, and Emergency Medical Services                                                    |                                               |
|Technician (EMT)                                                       |                                                                                                |                                               |
|Incinerator operator certificate                                       |Operation and maintenance of incinerators                                                       |                                               |
|New York State Asbestos Handling Certificates (with one additional     |Asbestos Work (Heating, Cooling, Ventilation; Liquid Effluent Decontamination Plant)            |NYS Department of Labor Code 56                |
|person as asbestos supervisory trained)                                |                                                                                                |                                               |
|Special process certification requirements (e.g. American Welding      |Special processes such as welding, heat treating, nondestructive testing, coating               |                                               |
|Society, National Association of Corrosion Engineers, etc)             |                                                                                                |                                               |
|Current certification as an Advanced Life Support (ALS) responder (at a|Fire, Rescue, and Emergency Medical Services                                                    |                                               |
|critical care or higher)                                               |                                                                                                |                                               |
|Hazardous Waste Operations certified                                   |Environmental Protection                                                                        |                                               |

