National Library of Medicine

Public Services Division

Statement of Work 

Medical Dictionary Source for MedlinePlus



1.  Background Information

To assist consumers in obtaining the information they need to make informed decisions about health and wellness, the National Library of Medicine has developed MedlinePlus (), an easily understandable Web resource for the public.  MedlinePlus (including all of the NLM MedlinePlus branded Web sites) contains links to information from authoritative health web sites, especially those from the National Institutes of Health.  Currently, MedlinePlus receives over 60 million page views per month.  

2.  Purpose and Objectives of the Procurement

It is the intent of the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to license a web-based English language medical dictionary to assist the public in locating the definitions of medical terms via MedlinePlus, to be included in MedlinePlus. “MedlinePlus” means all NLM MedlinePlus branded Web sites, including but not limited to MedlinePlus, MedlinePlus Connect, and MedlinePlus Mobile.  The dictionary must be available as an API (application programming interface).  The API allows the dictionary to be hosted on a remote site but co-branded by MedlinePlus.  

 3. Mandatory Requirements: 

The vendor must host the dictionary and control the display of the dictionary content, but allow for MedlinePlus co-branding.  Vendor must also have a mobile-optimized Web version of the dictionary for users of mobile devices to access.  They must host the mobile-optimized version as well.

Vendor must allow for MedlinePlus co-branding and access to the dictionary Web site from MedlinePlus branded Web sites via an API, so that MedlinePlus users have a seamless experience between the MedlinePlus sites and the dictionary. 

The dictionary must contain at least 50,000 terms, to include diseases, diagnostic tests, medical abbreviations and acronyms, and major drug names and classes.  In response please indicate the current number of terms.

The dictionary must include a search function for users.

Co-branded pages must be free of commercial endorsements or advertisements.  

Definitions must be written in consumer friendly language.  In response please indicate the intended audience for the online dictionary and the reading level or grade (including the measurement scale used to determine level or grade).

Definitions must include a written pronunciation guide.

Definitions should include audio pronunciations.  In response please indicate what percent of terms have this feature.

Definitions must include alternative definitions and synonyms as appropriate.

The dictionary must include a spellchecker or other mechanism to recommend terms when no exact match is found.

Vendor must provide the MedlinePlus staff with monthly statistics on use of the dictionary content by MedlinePlus visitors, or allow MedlinePlus staff access to a system to obtain the statistics directly.  Required metrics are page views, visits and visitors separately reported for each MedlinePlus branded site.

Vendor must have policies in place regarding quality control and updating of the dictionary.  Please provide these policies.

Vendor must maintain the co-branded site so that it is available to the public 24/7, and the vendor must notify NLM in advance if there will be any planned system outages.

Accessibility of content:  All electronic content must meet Section 508 Guidelines.  See the more specific requirements below regarding Section 508 Compliance.

The awardee will be required to provide NLM with technical support and advance access to the site in order to develop co-branding and test the API.

Preferred (in addition to the mandatory requirements): 

Linking is included within the definitions from other terms to definitions for those terms.

Illustrations are included as appropriate (indicate what percentage of terms have illustrations or how many illustrations).

Web site allows for truncation, if the user types in just the beginning or root of a term.

A soundex feature is included for the terms.

A comparable medical dictionary is available in Spanish.

Indicate other special features which are available.


4.  Specific Requirements
a. Section 508 Compliance: 

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that Federal agencies' electronic and information technology is accessible to people with disabilities.  The dictionary Web site must be Section 508 compliant. Specifically, the end product must be conformant with all applicable provisions, including:

1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications
1194.31 Functional performance criteria.
1194.41 Information, documentation, and support.

These provisions can be found at 

Section 508 Program Need

Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the following program need: "Medical Dictionary Source for MedlinePlus."

Section 508 Product Requirements 

Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Functional performance criteria from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart C have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those functional performance criteria identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least the information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Section 508 Evaluation Factors 

Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the requirements for Section 508.  Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508 requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation) will be eligible for any additional merit consideration.

Section 508 Acceptance Criteria 

The medical dictionary licensed as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508 requirements for accessibility.  The dictionary vendor must include a completed GPAT, a sample of which is included as a part of this solicitation.

Other Technical 

Features and product offerings will be evaluated as they exist at the time of submission; beta releases and planned updates will not be considered.

The vendor must host the dictionary and control the display of the dictionary content, but allow for MedlinePlus co-branding.  Vendor must also have a mobile-optimized Web version of the dictionary for users of mobile devices to access, which they also host.

Vendor must provide MedlinePlus co-branding and access to the dictionary Web site from MedlinePlus branded Web sites via an API, so that MedlinePlus users have a seamless experience between the MedlinePlus sites and the dictionary.   NLM will provide the required text and possible images for the co-branding.  Include with your response a sample of the code NLM would need to use to make the API work and/or the URL of another site where we can see an API in use to access the dictionary. 

The dictionary must include a search function for users.

The dictionary must include a spellchecker or other mechanism to recommend terms when no exact match is found.

Vendor must provide the MedlinePlus staff with monthly statistics on use of the dictionary content by MedlinePlus visitors, or allow MedlinePlus staff access to a system to obtain the statistics directly.

Co-branded site must be available 24/7, and NLM notified in advance if there will be any planned system outages.

Accessibility of content:  All electronic content must meet Section 508 Guidelines.  See the more specific requirements above regarding Section 508 Compliance.

Content

Dictionary must have at least 50,000 terms, including common medical abbreviations and acronyms in addition to disease terms, diagnostic tests, etc.

Definitions must include a written pronunciation guide.

Definitions should include audio pronunciations.  In response please indicate what percent of terms have this feature.

Definitions must include alternative definitions and synonyms when appropriate.

Co- branded pages must be must be free of commercial endorsements or advertisements.  

Definitions must be written in consumer friendly language.  In response please indicate the intended audience for the online dictionary and the reading level or grade (including the measurement scale used to determine level or grade).

Additional Performance Issues (not already addressed in Part 3 above):

NLM will forward to the vendor any feedback received from users regarding content

When NLM staff identify major issues, related to content or technical issues, they will communicate the issue with the vendor.  The vendor must describe their procedure and turn-around time for updates, including procedures and timeline for emergency updates.

Dictionary should be updated at least annually, for editorial corrections and addition of new terms as terminology changes.

5.  Other Required Information

The response to this solicitation must include the cost for licensing this product. The cost must be an annual flat fee for providing the content to users of any MedlinePlus branded site via the Web, mobile Web, or other electronic communication methods that may emerge.  Provide information showing the factors that determine this fee.

Respondents must provide a representative list of other organizations that license the content, along with accompanying web site URLs, for NLM to review.  Provide at least three references that we may contact. Also requested is a copy of your customer service policy, or other evidence of your commitment to customer service.

Respondents must include any documentation related to policies and procedures that insure the accuracy and currency of the information.

Respondents must provide additional information requested regarding the dictionary, including the number of terms included (and, if applicable, how many terms have illustrations and/or audio pronunciations), intended audience, and reading or grade level.  

License agreement governing use of content on Web sites, email, RSS and other electronic distribution/media must be included in response to this solicitation.

The response must include a sample of the code NLM would need to use to make the API work and/or the URL of another site where we can see an API in use to access the dictionary.