<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSSA-RFP-12-1036.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSSA-RFP-12-1036.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>
SSA-RFP-12-1036 - Attachment 1 - Pricing Table: Unit Prices
Functional Area 1: Security Assessments
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit of Measure Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price
RA01 High Complexity Security Assessment Each
RA02 Medium Complexity Security Assessment Each
RA03 Low Complexity Security Assessment Each
Applicable Section Covered: 
Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit of Measure Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price
PT01 High Complexity Penetration Test Each
PT02 Medium Complexity Penetration Test Each
Applicable Section Covered: 
Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit of Measure Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price
LH01 Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for IS Guidelines Hour
LH02 Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for Implementation Guidelines Hour
LH03 Research of IS Issues Hour
LH04 Provide IS Risk Remediation Recommendations Hour
LH05 Assist with IS Report Generation Hour
LH06 Miscellaneous Support Services relating to IS Policies and Procedures Hour
Applicable Section Covered: 
Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit of Measure Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price
RM01 Security Control Implementation Guidelines Hour
RM02 Risk Assessment Reporting Hour
RM03 Security Documentation Review Hour
Applicable Section Covered: 
Miscellaneous - Travel-Related Expenses
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit of Measure Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price Unit Price
TR01 Infrequent Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) Each
TR02 Moderate Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) Each
TR03 Frequent Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) Each
TR04 Infrequent Travel Required (Western U.S.) Each
TR05 Moderate Travel Required (Western U.S.) Each
TR06 Frequent Travel Required (Western U.S.) Each
Applicable Section Covered: 
SSA-RFP-12-1036 - Attachment 1 - Pricing Table: Extended Prices
Functional Area 1: Security Assessments
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price
RA01 High Complexity Security Assessment 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
RA02 Medium Complexity Security Assessment 7.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 7.0
RA03 Low Complexity Security Assessment 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price
PT01 High Complexity Penetration Test 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
PT02 Medium Complexity Penetration Test 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price
LH01 Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for IS Guidelines 600.0 600.0 600.0 600.0 600.0
LH02 Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for Implementation Guidelines 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0
LH03 Research of IS Issues 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0
LH04 Provide IS Risk Remediation Recommendations 900.0 900.0 900.0 900.0 900.0
LH05 Assist with IS Report Generation 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0
LH06 Miscellaneous Support Services relating to IS Policies and Procedures 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0
Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price
RM01 Security Control Implementation Guidelines 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0
RM02 Risk Assessment Reporting 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0
RM03 Security Documentation Review 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0
Miscellaneous - Travel-Related Expenses
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
CLIN Description Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price Unit Price Est. QTY Extended Price
TR01 Infrequent Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
TR02 Moderate Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
TR03 Frequent Travel Required (Eastern U.S.) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
TR04 Infrequent Travel Required (Western U.S.) 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
TR05 Moderate Travel Required (Western U.S.) 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
TR06 Frequent Travel Required (Western U.S.) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
SSA-RFP-12-1036 - Attachment 1 - Pricing Table: Evaluated Prices
Functional Area 1: Security Assessments
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Miscellaneous - Travel-Related Expenses
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Evaluated Annual Cost
Contract Year 1 Contract Year 2 Contract Year 3 Contract Year 4 Contract Year 5
Total Evaluated Amount

                                                  Attachment 2 – List of SSA Major Applications

|System Name                                                                              |Sys. ID                      |Sys. Type           |
|Title II                                                                                 |1                            |MA                  |
|Comprehensive Integrity Review Process (CIRP)                                            |2                            |GSS                 |
| Electronic Disability System (eDib)                                                     |3                            |MA                  |
|Supplemental Security Income Record Maintenance System (SSIRMS)                          |4                            |MA                  |
|Security Management Access Control System (SMACS)                                        |5                            |GSS                 |
|Earnings Records Maintenance System (ERMS)                                               |6                            |MA                  |
|Death Alert Control & Update System (DACUS)                                              |7                            |GSS                 |
|Social Security Online Accounting & Reporting (SSOARS)                                   |8                            |GSS                 |
|Integrated Disability Management System (IDMS)                                           |9                            |GSS                 |
|Human Resources Management Information System (HRMIS)                                    |10                           |GSS                 |
|RSDI Accounting                                                                          |11                           |MA                  |
|Enterprise Wide Area Network and Services System (EWANS)                                 |12                           |GSS                 |
|Integrated Client Data Base (ICDB) System                                                |13                           |GSS                 |
|Recovery of Overpayments, Accounting and Reporting (ROAR)                                |14                           |MA                  |
|Social Security Number Establishment & Correction System (SSNECS)                        |15                           |MA                  |
|Audit Trail System (ATS)                                                                 |16                           |GSS                 |
|Debt Management System (DMS)                                                             |17                           |GSS                 |
|FALCON                                                                                   |18                           |GSS                 |
|Security Unified Measurement System (SUMS)                                               |19                           |GSS                 |
|Quality System (QA)                                                                      |20                           |GSS                 |
|National Investigative Case Management System (NICMS)                                    |21                           |MA                  |
|Common Controls                                                                          |22                           |NA                  |

                                     System Types: General Support Systems (GSS) and Major Applications (MA).

DESCRIPTIONS OF 22 MAJOR SSA SYSTEMS

System 1 –  The Title II System encompasses the activities with taking the applications for Title  II  Social  Security  Benefits  and  all  Post
Adjudicative activities involved in determining entitlement and eligibility, establishing records of entitlement and maintaining payments for  as
long as  the individual is entitled to Retirement, Survivors or Disability benefits.  It  also  interfaces  the  processing  results  with  other
payment systems.  It is primarily  an  on-line  operation,  which  consists  of  centralized  application  software  that  receives  and  process
transactions entered by various field locations.

System 2 – The Comprehensive Integrity Review Process (CIRP)  will  consolidate  all  integrity  review  (IR)  functions  from  the  various  SSA
programmatic applications into a single automated facility.  Once fully implemented, transactions from programmatic areas, as needed  to  support
CIRP selection criteria, will feed into CIRP and be captured in a Transaction History File.  This file will provide  data  in  a  common  format.
The transactions are screened against specific selection criteria, developed by the SSA security community  to  address  vulnerabilities  in  SSA
systems as determined by the security community or identified by the Office of the Inspector General or independent audits, including those  that
cross application areas, targeting integrity reviews to fraud-prone situations.  Such selected items will be maintained in a  Case  Review  File.
The system provides on-line CICS screens, allowing users to  access  items  selected  for  review  and  the  case  details  associated  with  the
transaction.  The system also provides the capability for reviewers to  report  review  results.   On-line,  real-time  reports  of  pending  and
clearances are provided.  This process enhances compensatory controls where separation of duties  is  not  cost-effective  in  Agency  processing
systems.

System 3 – Electronic Disability System (eDib) is a Major Application System that supports the SSA Disability Process.  It is  composed  of  four
subsystems: Internet, Electronic Data Collection System, Claims  Processing  Management  System,  and  Document  Management  Architecture.   eDib
collects, processes and manages data for SSA’s Disability Program.





System 4 –The SSI Record Maintenance System (SSIRMS) provides an automated and integrated field  and  central  office  system  facility  for  the
establishment, maintenance and payment of Supplemental Security Income claims and the Special Veteran’s Benefits (Title VIII) program.   This  is
a requirement of the Social Security Act (PL 74-271), title XVI and the integrated, related, subsequent regulations and court decisions.




The scope of the system encompasses the multitude of  activities  associated  with  taking  SSI  claims  for  payments  determining  initial  and
continuing eligibility, establishing and maintaining records of eligibility, processing changes in eligibility and interfacing with the  Treasury
Department to make or stop payment.  The SSI Record Maintenance System is comprised of 30 separate subsystems.

System 5 -  The Security Management Access Control System  (SMACS).   The  system  automates  and  manages  SSA’s  electronic  Personal  Identity
Verification (PIV) workflow from the enrollment process through card issuance for all SSA employees, contractors, students, volunteers,  vendors,
and emergency responders.  The system will provide  enterprise-level  infrastructure,  support  interoperability  and  will  link  the  following
services:
-Applicant Enrollment
-Biometric Services
-Card Management Services (CMS)
-Card Production Services
-Physical Access Control (Current – LENEL Security Access System (LSAS))
-Logical Access Control (Planned)

The system ultimately issues a credential, which is capable of providing both physical and logical access.  This  credential  shall  contain  the
following attributes:  displayed photograph and name; stored biometrics, cardholder unique identifier, and digital certificates.

System 6 – The Earnings Record Maintenance System (ERMS) is a major  SSA  application  consisting  of  several  sub-systems.   These  sub-systems
execute the functionality for the establishment, correction and maintenance of SSA’s major earnings files.  These subsystems include  the  Annual
Wage Reporting System, Master Earnings File and Suspense File Update,  the  Earnings  Reconciliation  System,  the  Report  Correction  and  Item
Correction applications and the Social Security Statement systems.

The ERMS receives earnings data from  employers  and  self-employed  individuals  and  processes  that  earnings  data  to  the  Social  Security
Administration’s (SSA’s) Master Earnings File (MEF).  Earnings items that do not  have  valid  employee  name/SSN  are  placed  on  the  Earnings
Suspense File pending reinstatement to the MEF.  These processes provide earnings totals for certification to the Treasury Department of the  tax
amounts to be credited to the Social Security trust funds.  The MEF contains individual earnings histories for each of the  350+  million  Social
Security Numbers (SSNs) that have been assigned to workers.  These earnings histories  are  the  basis  for  determinations  of  eligibility  for
retirement, survivor, disability and health insurance benefits under Title II and Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and for computations  of
benefit amounts payable under Title II and Title XVI of the Act.

System 7 -  DACUS compares death records received from external sources (such as State Bureaus of Vital Statistics) and from sources internal  to
SSA (such as the Daily Update Data Exchange (DUDEX program)) to the Master Beneficiary Record (MBR) and Supplemental  Security  Record  (SSR)  to
identify and prevent erroneous payments after death.  If conflicting payment or death data  is  found,  an  alert  is  generated  to  the  Social
Security Administration (SSA) field office for investigation.  If no conflicting payment or death data is found, or when conflicts are  resolved,
death data is posted to the NUMIDENT.

System 8 -  SSOARS is SSA’s centralized accounting system for recording, classifying and summarizing information on SSA’s financial position  and
operation.  It maintains a variety of financial information including, but not limited to, funding data,  commitments,  obligations,  receivables
and payables.

The objective of SSOARS is to maintain the financial records of SSA.  These records include the general ledger, subsidiary  ledgers  for  control
and reporting, obligation, advance and receivable subsidiary records, fund availability status,  audit  trail  of  accounting  activity  and  the
payment and collection records  for  cash  reconciliation.   SSOARS  is  SSA’s  financial  management  system  that  consolidates  all  of  SSA’s
administrative accounting, payment and collection activities.

System 9 -  IDMS is a master file that contains a record for each disability beneficiary.  It maintains records of all  Title  II  or  Title  XVI
disability claims, including current disability beneficiaries, current aged or survivor beneficiaries  who  at  one  time  filed  any  disability
claims, and terminated disability beneficiaries.  The IDMS was created through a conversion process from  the  old  CDRCF,  using  extracts  from
sweeps of the whole MBR and the whole SSR.  The MBR and the SSR are the final arbiters of what is a disability claim.  There is  no  override  of
what the payment files reflect.  Much of the claims-based data will be a reflection of data carried on the MBR and SSR, and  is  updated  nightly
through change files.  Other data is owned and processed by the IDMS.

The IDMS provides a longitudinal (historical) view of disability filings for each disability beneficiary  by  title,  in  date  order,  including
denials.  The IDMS provides the same front end for disability processes for all disability beneficiaries;  e.g.,  recording  work  and  earnings,
ticket-to-work issuance, CDRs, diaries.  The IDMS allows field and programmatic users  to  view  the  total  disability  picture  for  concurrent
beneficiaries.  In addition, the IDMS is a common data repository used by other (including regionally developed) applications,  e.g.,  MRTW.   It
is the system of records for title II work activity.

System 10 - HRMIS is the Social Security Administration’s batch-oriented mainframe application supported by a VSAM database.   Personnel  actions
from FPPS are captured in a nightly file that is transmitted to SSA and fed into the Employee  Data  processing,  which  captures  essential  SSA
employee personnel information in a number of HRMIS files.  A subset of HRMIS information is extracted to the Human  Resources  Operational  Data
Store (HRODS).  The HRODS, which is considered as a part of HRMIS for Security Authorization purposes, serves as an alternate repository for  the
extracted information through which query and reporting needs can be met in addition to HRMIS itself.

The MTAS system supports the recording of daily time and attendance  information  for  all  SSA  employees,  and  the  application  of  edits  to
administer SSA policy for time and attendance.  The user  population  includes  timekeepers,  certifiers,  payroll  liaisons  and  administrators
throughout the agency.   MTAS uses IBM’s CICS as the online transaction processor to govern the  executable  programs  and  the  user  interface.
Multiple VSAM files house the employee’s Time and Attendance data.  There is a dataset interface received from HRMIS for  personnel  information,
and an interface electronically transmitted to DOI’s Federal Personnel/Payroll System to support the computation of pay.  Data interfaces  within
SSA support numerous management information and productivity accounting reporting and related uses.  MTAS includes daily  and  pay  period  level
accounting of time worked and absent for all SSA employees.

System 11 - The purpose of the RSDI Accounting System is to accumulate accounting control, payment certification,  trust  fund,  and  statistical
totals for the Title II benefit payment system. Once developed, the accounting totals are used to ensure the integrity of the Master  Beneficiary
Record and the accuracy of the benefit payments issued by SSA. The accounting totals are also used for various financial reports and  trust  fund
accounting.

The RSDI Accounting System consists of the following subsystems:

    • Systems Integrity Fiscal Totals (SIFT)
    • Daily Update, Master Accounting System (DUMAS) and
    • Treasury Operations
    • Windfall Offset Accounting (WACO)

Internal users include the Office of Financial Policy and Operations.  External users include the Department of the Treasury.

System 12 -  The Enterprise Wide Area Network and Services System addresses SSA’s Mainframe processing environment and  the  Distributed  Network
(Client/Server) environment.  Across these environments, applications such as enumeration, earnings record maintenance, claims  processing,  post
entitlement, electronic mail, and application tracking are processed.  As the systems are today, each environment has  its  own  security.   Only
the SSA developed Enterprise Security Interface (ESI) currently interfaces with both the mainframe and distributed  environments.   Collectively,
they provide system security, which permits the Agency to process its programmatic and administrative applications without compromise.

System 13 -  The Integrated Client Database System (ICDB) is a database that allows data to be shared  among  SSA’s  major  application  systems.
More specifically, it is a set of databases, common screens and access software that collect, house and provide access to  and  sharing  of  data
that is common to SSA’s major application systems (commonly referred to as “Client data”).  Client data is data that pertains  to  an  individual
and that would exist even if the person was not involved with a  SSA  benefit  or  entitlement  and  which  is  sharable  among  programs/titles.
Examples of client data are a person’s name, date of birth (DOB), sex, disability onset date, etc.

System 14 -  ROAR controls the recovery of Retirement, Survivors, Disability Insurance (RSDI) benefits, Title XVI, Supplemental  Security  Income
(SSI) programs, Health Insurance (HI) and Black Lung overpayments. The ROAR system controls the recovery activity when  refund  is  requested  or
adjustment is proposed for overpayment and/or misused or conserved funds debts. Generally, the ROAR master file contains the overpayment  record,
the actions against the overpayment record, the causes of the overpayment, the overpayment amounts, the collection  status  of  the  overpayment,
remittance agreements, waiver and reconsideration information and information about the individual who is liable for the debt.

System 15 -  The Social Security Number (SSN) Establishment and Correction System provides SSN’s to  those  persons  who  request  them  and  are
entitled to have them.  It also establishes the file from which  Social  Security  cards  are  printed.  Inputs  to  the  SSN  Establishment  and
Corrections System come from SSA Field Office personnel, the state Bureaus of Vital Statistics (for Enumeration at Birth) and the  Department  of
Homeland Security (for Enumeration at Entry).  This system is not available for use by the public.

The current system is a combination of online interactive screens (used by Field Office personnel) and a batch system to process the  data.   The
system captures certification information for necessary evidence or proofs and screens the enumeration database files  to  assure  the  requested
action is valid.  It alerts users to situations where it may be necessary to follow up on certain issues with the  client,  performs  the  actual
SSN assignment or verification of prior SSN assignment, updates the databases, and sends a file that is used to issue the Social  Security  card.
Pertinent management information (MI) is furnished to the MI software system.

The SSN Establishment and Correction System is comprised of six (6) separate systems, which are listed below:

1. Modernized Enumeration System Batch
2. Modernized Enumeration System Online
3. Automated Enumeration Screening Process (AESP)
4. Alphident Query
5. Numident Batch
6. Numident Query

System 16 -  The Social Security Administration (SSA) has responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the Social Security  Act.   In  terms
of the Audit Trail System (ATS), this responsibility is focused on properly executing our fiduciary responsibility to  ensure  that  SSA  records
and trust fund monies are protected from improper use.  Toward that end, we maintain audit records of systems  actions  that  could  be  used  to
compromise those records/funds.

The objective of the ATS is to provide an automated and integrated system facility for the maintenance and retrieval of  audit  records  for  the
purpose of deterring, detecting, and investigating instances of fraud and abuse. The scope of the system  encompasses  the  daily  collection  of
data each time an employee performs an auditable task or transaction.  Data is then converted into a common format.   Each  record  contains  the
personal identification number (PIN) of the employee entering the transaction as well as the date, time, and application specific data.

Transactions captured are maintained within ATS for a period of seven years.  Center Director’s for Security and Integrity and  their  staff  are
the primary users of ATS and can access the data by an on-line request that is executed in same day or  overnight  batch  mode.   ATS  users  can
request data for a specific PIN, a specific SSN or a specific office or module.

System 17 -  DMS is a financial management system that consolidates SSA's program debt  activities,  including  overpayments,  underpayments  and
payments certified to the Department of the Treasury (DT) in excess of the amount due.  The purpose of this System is to provide control,  timely
resolution and accounting of program debts owed and to provide management information that supports strategic use of SSA's resources to  minimize
overpayment occurrences.  DMS is categorized as a Major Application System that requires special management attention because of  its  importance
to the agency mission and its significant role in agency programs.  Basic functions include:

Maintaining control of debts (establishing and maintaining accounts),
Resolving debts (remittances, offsets, write-offs, waivers, etc.),
Communicating with payers (notices, billing),
Follow-up activity (pursuing liable parties),
Referrals,
Accounting (financial ledgers and reports, aging of debts, reconciliation), and
Reporting (management information, operations information, action item list, event tracking, inquiries, etc.).

System 18 -  FALCON Data Entry (referred to as FALCON in the remainder of the document) is an off the shelf product that has  been  modified  for
Social Security Administration (SSA) purposes.  It is used to collect mass amounts of information via manual data entry.  This data is passed  to
other legacy Agency systems.  As such, the FALCON screens become intrinsic parts of those systems. FALCON does not process  any  information  but
provides the ability to “paint” screens for use with other systems.  It allows for collection of data and forwards the data to other systems  for
processing.  These other systems actually update the Agency’s databases, and were certified as parts of other sensitive  systems  in  July  2003.
All of these systems handle extremely sensitive data relating to individual Agency beneficiaries.

System 19 -  The Social Security Unified Measurement System (SUMS) project is an Agency initiative to provide  enhanced  management  information,
workload controls and performance measures for direct service components.  SUMS rely on data collected by  programmatic  systems.   The  data  is
stored in operational data stores and the SUMS data warehouse.  SUMS does not update or delete any data from master files and thus cannot  affect
payment.  Standardized reports are accessed though the Agency’s Intranet by management  personnel  and  analysts.   Data  may  also  be  accessed
directly by selected personnel using database management software (e.g., Brio or Focus).

System 20 -  The Quality System, sometimes referred to as the Modernized  Quality  Assurance  application,  handles  the  non-disability  quality
review.  The Quality System pulls data regarding specific “sampled” claims from the Master Beneficiary Record and  Supplemental  Security  Record
databases, Claims Processing Management System, and Title XVIII (Health Insurance) databases to provide the  following  major  functions  of  the
quality review process:  study definition; sample selection; creation of findings forms; reviewer completion of findings  data;  simple  reports;
and analytical reporting from the reporting database.

System 21 -  The National Investigative Case Management System (NICMS) is the system that contains the case  investigative  information  for  the
SSA IG.  This system is highly critical for the IG filed agents in the processing of their cases.

System 22 -  The agency Common Controls are enterprise services designed and employed to  support  the  use  and  operation  of  SSA  information
systems that collectively facilitate or enable agency mission processes.
Social Security Administration (SSA)



Security Categorization: [Enter Categorization]















Rules of Engagement and Test Plan

For

[System Name (Acronym)]



[DRAFT/FINAL] Version 0.1





[Date Format Ex: March 15, 2012]



Performed by

{Organization Name}

{Street Address}

{City, State, and Zip Code}


Revision History




Table of Contents






























































































































IMPORTANT NOTE



Document Font Guidance



All RED Font must be filled in with the appropriate description (i.e., [System Name] must be replaced with the appropriate System Name) before the final document is submitted.



All [Organization] placeholders are to refer to the company or organization performing the security assessment/penetration testing service.



All [Component] placeholders are to refer to the SSA Component that owns the Information System and/or is sponsoring the security assessment/penetration testing service.



All BLUE Font is provided as reference or instruction and must be removed prior to the document finalization.





All BLACK Font is to remain unchanged.







THIS NOTE WILL BE REMOVED BEFORE FINAL DELIVERY OF ROE






Introduction

The purpose of this document is to establish and formalize the parameters for the cyber security services and testing activities which will be conducted by [Organization] for [Component].  The [Organization] Assessment Team efforts will consist of a Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Test to be conducted [Date Range Activities to be Performed].  This may include, but is not limited to, conducting vulnerability scans and penetration testing on [Component] external and internal networks, open source intelligence gathering, social engineering, wireless access point detection and exploitation of vulnerabilities discovered.  [Organization] and [Component] will abide by this agreement.

Purpose

Security testing performed by [Organization] is conducted to test the adequacy and effectiveness of security control measures in place to protect the security and integrity of sensitive information technology (IT) systems and data.  In execution of security testing, experts identify system level, network level, application level, and configuration level vulnerabilities that introduce risks into the environment.

The test results from this engagement will be used to identify vulnerabilities and evaluate the effectiveness of technical controls in the [System Name] infrastructure. This information will be provided to [Component] senior management and engineers to allow for the development of remediation plans to mitigate the identified deficiencies and increase overall system security.  Moreover, the test will provide valuable information on the potential effects to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of [Component] data and network resources within the [System Name].

The Rules of Engagement (ROE) establish the guidelines followed by the [Organization] personnel during the assessment. The ROE defines the specific plans, methodology, and testing activities for the [System Name] assessment. This allows the [Organization] to perform testing in a manner that minimizes impact on operations while maximizing the usefulness of the results. This test plan is submitted for review and approval by the SSA Chief Information Officer (CIO) prior to execution of testing.

Scope of Testing

The [System Name] contains [General Technical Description of System components] located at [# of locations to be tested] sites, the [General Description of physical locations].  There are approximately [Estimate of active hosts included in assessment] hosts at the sites that will be included in the assessments.  Testing will be conducted from two facilities:

Internal assessment activities will be conducted at the [Component Location].  The site is maintained by [Component].  Testing will be performed against internal [System Name] systems, connected to the [System Name] infrastructure, and designated by the Point of Contact (POC).

External assessment activities will be conducted at the [[Component] assessment location] via non-[Component] provided Internet connection.  Testing will be performed against [Component] identified externally accessible [System Name] systems, as designated by the POC.

Testing Environment

All IT components within the [System Name] and identified by the [Component] as within the included ranges, as defined in Appendix B, are assumed to be in the scope of the engagement unless otherwise identified by the [Component] POC. At the time of this agreement, specific assessment environment information is unknown to the [Organization].  The [Component] POC should, if possible, provide documentation on the testing environment to [Organization] prior to the engagement.

If the assessment is to be performed against a test/development environment, the environment should mimic the production system to the fullest extent possible.  Standard system and security applications and security policies should be implemented and configured as normally deployed in the production environment.  This will allow the team to assess the hosts and network as they would expect to find them in a production environment.  Any discrepancies between a normal production implementation and the test environment should be provided to [Organization] prior to arriving on site for testing. 

Methodology

The [Organization] will use an approved suite of tools to perform security testing.  External testing will be conducted from the [[Component] assessment location].  Internal testing will be conducted by connecting approved customer furnished equipment (CFE) laptops to the [Component] network.  Various security tools will collect data from [Component] systems and the data will be analyzed to determine system vulnerabilities and paths for the testing team to possibly exploit (if within the scope of the assessment). All assessment tools available to the team are well known and widely available. Configuration of individual software assessment tools will be provided upon request. For a list of tools used during the specific assessment services, refer to Appendix G.

The [Organization] will follow common vulnerability assessment and penetration methodologies to ensure consistent and repeatable evaluations. Methodologies used include the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-115, Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSSTMM) and Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) testing guide. The use of common methodologies will allow the [Component] to conduct follow-on evaluations utilizing [Organization] testing techniques.


Assumptions and Limitations

Test Plan

The ROE must be signed and approved prior to penetration test planning finalization.

Test plan must include both calendar time and man hours.

Test plan must include hours of testing.

Schedule

The penetration testing schedule will be developed to provide additional details and will include detailed penetrating testing activities.

During execution, a [Daily/Weekly] teleconference will be conducted with [Component]. Stakeholders to provide a summary of the activities to occur for the time period.

An agreed upon timeframe is required to allow the test team to complete the report prior to the 1st draft submission to [Component] stakeholders.

Test Process

A preliminary penetration testing vetting process will be conducted with [Component] prior to execution to ensure that the necessary preparation has been made and ensure that [Component] is ready for execution.

[Component] will provide the test team with a signed version of the RoE before any testing is conducted. The signed RoE authorizes the team to initiate testing, grants the team permission to assess in-scope systems, and limits testing team liability for possible system damage to instances where malicious and unauthorized activities can be proven.

The team will ensure that activities conducted during the engagement do not leave the assessed systems in a more vulnerable state then prior to the engagement. 

The test team will provide notification through regular process updates to [Component] when: (1) changes occur to the test plan or source test venue; (2) high risk findings are identified; (3) performing high risk or high traffic tests; and (4) testing problems occur.  Reports will clearly state successful and failed security measures, and loss controls discovered through testing.  The issue resolution process will begin once the draft report is submitted and approved

Disclaimers and Limitation of Liability

Disclaimers 

[Organization] will endeavor to use professional and industry standard procedures to avoid or mitigate any adverse impact on all relevant systems or operations during testing however [Component] understands that due to the inherently invasive nature of the techniques and tools utilized during the testing, [Organization] cannot guarantee desired or expected outcomes of a testing procedure and expressly disclaims any liability for any disruption or degradation in systems, networks, or operations, or for any system reset, loss of data, configuration change, unintentional compromise of data, denial of service (“DOS”), or other adverse system impact which may result from or be caused by, in whole or in part, such testing.  In recognition of these inherent risks the [Component] will be solely responsible for providing sufficient back-up and recovery capability for all systems to return them to an operational state. [Component] understands that testing or analysis may fail to identify all system vulnerabilities or propose exhaustive and operationally viable recommendations to mitigate all exposure to risk.  

Limitation of Liability

[Organization’s] liability, to [Component], if any, arising out of this contract shall be as set forth in the Contracts Disputes Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulations and other applicable law.

Document Structure

Section 2 covers the logistics of the ROE.  This section will include the personnel to include Trusted Agents and key stakeholders, the test schedule, test site and test equipment.

Section 3 covers the communication strategy of the ROE.  Included in this section are general communication procedures and incident handling and response.  The incident handling section must cover suspension and resumption of testing.

Section 4 details the target system(s) and/or network(s).  This section will define allowable and non-allowable target Internet Protocol (IP) addresses.

Section 5 details the test execution.  The section will define technical and nontechnical test components and how the test team should handle data, particularly [Component] passwords.

Section 6 covers the reporting requirements of the ROE.  As part of the scope detailed in section 1.3.4, this section will detail the Penetration Testing Report and any other deliverables.

Section 7 is the signature page.  This section must have the signatures off all key stakeholders as detailed in Sections 1.2.1 and 1.2.3. 






Services

The following services will be conducted by [Organization] for the [Component] on [System Name]. Specific metrics for the services performed will be discussed before execution of assessment activities to appropriately map the accurate level of effort.

[Remove all services not covered by this particular ROE and relevant sections from the tool listing in Appendix C]

Network Vulnerability Assessment

A vulnerability assessment performed by an independent expert is designed to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of system security control measures in respect to a wide range of potential vulnerabilities. The assessment team will attempt to identify missing system or application patches, system mis-configurations, and poorly hardened hosts. These tests are generally intended to be non-intrusive and will not interfere with network activity.  However, as with any vulnerability assessment activity, there is a risk that some tests may interfere with the operation of servers, workstations and the network depending on system configurations. Backups and/or backup procedures should be available during assessment activities.

A review of network, system and application configurations may be conducted based on platform specific configuration guidelines collected from system personnel and results from vulnerability scans. This data will be incorporated into the analysis portion of the report which will specify the actions needed (if any) to correctly configure and secure the environment.

If requested, the team may conduct a host-based configuration review as a component of the assessment. This review will utilize vulnerability scanning tools to check operating system and database system configuration baselines of system components.  These tests will check system configurations against Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC)/ United States Government Configuration Baselines (USGCB), or other configuration best practice guidelines, as dictated by the organization. The scans will provide an in depth look at the host based configuration and security hardening of particular systems. Due to varying organizational requirements, variances from standard baselines may exist. This may cause configuration review tools to generate a large number of false positives. The organization will need to provide the team with the organization’s configuration baseline in order for the team to identify these false positives.

Internal Penetration Test

An internal penetration test is designed to demonstrate to customers the risks associated with potential vulnerabilities by attempting to emulate attacks from a malicious user already inside the network boundary. The result will allow the customer to more accurately assess the business risks of detected vulnerabilities, and determine the effects and potential impact of a successful compromise.



During an internal penetration test, the team will attempt to exploit vulnerabilities identified during the internal vulnerability assessment and perform other tests as needed.  The purpose of this activity is to attempt to gain access to data without authorization or provided authentication credentials.  This type of penetration test will be conducted under the auspices of an “Informed Insider” with prior network access and will be conducted from within the network boundary. The test will employ various degrees of malice and complexity to identify exploitable components of the system; all exploitable avenues will be explored. Computer systems and network operations will not be intentionally interrupted during the test without prior coordination with the customer. 

During the engagement, if monitoring and detection systems are in use, it will be helpful, although not necessary, for customer personnel to notify the assessment team when penetration actions are generating alerts. This information can then be used when generating the test results.

Database Vulnerability Assessment

Database vulnerability assessments are designed to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of security controls implemented internally, within databases existing on a system.  The database assessment will include automated database discovery, vulnerability identification, and database user rights review for all in-scope internal databases.  The result will enable the customer to get an accurate inventory of databases on the system and potential vulnerabilities of specifically identified databases.

The assessment team will attempt to identify every accessible database and enumerate vendor and release level for each database. The major databases that will be identified and enumerated by the assessment team are Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, Sybase, MySQL and Lotus Notes/Domino.  

Once a database inventory is developed, database software and configuration vulnerabilities will be identified utilizing automated database vulnerability scanners. The scans will identify as many database vulnerabilities as possible within the defined test period.  User rights review will be performed in conjunction with vulnerability identification. It will consist of a review of database user rights for excess database privileges and the ability of users to gain inappropriate access to data or functionality. These tests are intended to be non-intrusive and should not interfere with general network activity.  However, some activities may interfere with proper operation of database servers depending on system configurations.

External Penetration Test

An external penetration test is designed to demonstrate for customers the risks associated with potential vulnerabilities in external facing hosts and services by attempting to emulate attacks from an attacker outside the network boundary. The result will allow the customer to more accurately assess the business risks of external-facing vulnerabilities, and determine the effects and potential impact of a successfully exploited vulnerability.



To better simulate a real-world attack, the assessment team will conduct the external penetration test from a non-organization network (e.g. direct Internet Service Provider (ISP) connection). 

During an external penetration test, the team will attempt to exploit system and network level vulnerabilities identified during network reconnaissance and perform other tests, as necessary, to further verify vulnerabilities. The team will attempt to penetrate the external network and gain access to systems by exploiting the identified vulnerabilities. The tests will employ various degrees of malice and complexity to identify exploitable components of the system; all exploitable avenues will be explored, unless identified prior to testing by the customer. Computer systems and network operations will not be intentionally interrupted during the test without prior coordination with the customer. 

During the engagement, if monitoring and detection systems are in use, it will be helpful, although not necessary, for customer personnel to notify the assessment team when penetration activities are triggering monitoring devices and generating alerts.  This information can then be used when generating the test results.

Web Application Assessment

A web application assessment will thoroughly assess the adequacy and effectiveness of security controls implemented within a web application throughout the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  Web application assessments will include both vulnerability assessment and penetration testing activities. The result of this assessment will allow the customer to better assess the risk of their web application and the effects of a successful compromise.     

Evaluations and penetration tests of web applications will include automated web application vulnerability scanning, using common web application assessment and manual methods to identify and possibly exploit vulnerabilities. The assessment will determine if common web application vulnerabilities such as the OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities are present. The test will employ various degrees of malice and complexity to identify exploitable components of the system; all exploitable avenues will be explored, unless identified prior to testing by the organization. To better simulate a real-world attack, the assessment team may conduct the web application assessment test from a non-organization network (e.g. direct ISP connection).

If web applications require authentication, the assessment team will first attempt to gain access without authentication, however if access is not gained within 24 hours of the start of assessment activities, the assessment will assess the systems under the auspices of an “Informed Insider” with prior access.  The assessment team will require multiple “external user” login identification (ID) and passwords based on the privilege levels of user accounts. This allows the assessment team to approach the application with the same access as an external or public user.  

During the engagement, if monitoring and detection systems are in use, it is helpful, although not necessary, if organization personnel notify the assessment team when penetration activities are triggering monitoring devices and generating alerts.  This information can then be used when generating the test results

Wireless Vulnerability Assessment

A wireless vulnerability assessment will enable the customer to develop a thorough picture of the wireless activity and risk within their facilities.  The assessment team will attempt to identify wireless networks within the facilities and potential rogue wireless activity.  The team will leverage different levels of effort to determine risk based on the complexity of the request from the customer.  The result of this assessment will allow the customer a better understanding of the level of risk associated with wireless activity within their environment.

The assessment team will conduct an internal and external walkthrough of the organization’s facilities attempting to locate unauthorized and/or poorly secured Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Access Points (AP). If requested by the customer, the assessment team will also attempt to locate unauthorized Bluetooth enabled devices.  The assessment team will walk all accessible corridors of the facilities to detect and localize WLAN APs and Bluetooth enabled devices.  

Social Engineering / Email Spear Phishing

Social engineering, in the form of email spear phishing activities, is designed to enable the customer to assess customer personnel’s susceptibility to the most common form of cyber-attack in use today. The result will allow the customer to understand the actual risk of these types of attacks and better tailor personnel information security training.

Social engineering activities will consist of pre-determined scenarios vetted by both [Organization] and the [Component] senior management. Further, all scenarios will be approved by the [Component] CIO. To better simulate a real-world attack, the assessment team will conduct social engineering activities from a non-organization network (e.g. direct ISP connection).

If requested, social engineering activities may be conducted against email addresses harvested from open source intelligence gathering. However, to increase the efficiency and thoroughness of an assessment, [Organization] recommends that [Component] provide email addresses for a group of randomly selected target users. The provided sample will aid in ensuring the social engineering activities are limited to the scope of the assessment.  Users will be sent specially targeted e-mails, which contain a custom file or a Uniform Resource Locator (URL). Statistics will be collected on the number of users that open the file or click on the URL.  Selected users will not be made aware of the assessment activities. 

Statistics generated during social engineering activities will be provided to the customer; however user identification will not be recorded.  As users should be randomly selected, the organization is encouraged to use the results as a means of assessing the effectiveness of user training and not in identifying specific users.

Logistics

Personnel

The following personnel will be involved in this security assessment:

Table 1: [Organization] Assessment Team Personnel

Points of Contact and Trusted Agent

Prior to the commencement of assessment activities, the [Component] will appoint an authorized representative to act as a POC.  This representative will be the agency’s primary POC for the [Organization] during the testing.  The [Organization] will rely on the POC to answer any questions concerning systems and related IT devices, give final authorization to test any vulnerabilities discovered and provide any additional information for unanticipated factors that may arise and impact the assessment.

Table 2: [Component] POC(s)






The [Component] will also appoint an authorized representative in the security incident reporting chain to act as a Trusted Agent (TA). The POC and the TA may be the same person if so authorized by [Component] management. The TA will serve as the Assessment Team’s primary point of contact during impact coordination, incident handling and incident response. The TA will also serve as the [Organization]’s Computer Security Incident Response Capability (CSIRC) primary point of contact should assessment activity be detected by [Component].

Table 3: [Component] Trusted Agent(s)



In addition to personnel listed above, [Component] IT staff or security personnel are encouraged to observe the assessment.

For a full listing of [Component] POC and [Organization] members, refer to Appendix H.




Testing Period and Schedule

All assessment activities will be conducted from [Dates To Be Performed] during time windows of [Assessment Time Windows] as specified by [Component]. Typically, tests are conducted during non-production hours to avoid any interference with production activities.  The assessment team shall be notified immediately of any other concurrent activities that may be degraded by the testing procedures.

Table 4 lists key milestones, critical tests, and deadlines associated with testing activities. All testing time frames must include the hourly schedule. Testing will not occur outside of this hourly schedule window.

The schedule is subject to change.  The Assessment lead is responsible for maintaining the test schedule. When schedule changes are made, the Assessment lead will disseminate the updated schedule to all parties listed in Table 4.

Table 4: Milestones and Testing Schedule



Network Access

Coordination of network access for the [Organization] must be completed prior to test commencement.  During the onsite portion of the assessment, [Organization] will require the following:

At least four (4) points of access (Ethernet-based) from within the [System Name] internal network. Depending on system configuration, access may be necessary in one or more network segments to facilitate comprehensive internal vulnerability scans.  [Component] provided points of access information, including physical location, network range, and IP address information, will be documented in Appendix I.

Network access points provided will be located in an office type workspace with Alternating Current (AC) power.

Assessment equipment will be assigned internal network IP addresses, preferably with static IP addresses. Using a static IP address will allow for reconciliation of any issues arising during vulnerability scans.  

If port lockdown is in place then it must be disabled temporarily or reconfigured to provide network access to assessment equipment.



Prior to allowing assessment team equipment to connect to a network access point, the [Component] is authorized to scan the assessment equipment for vulnerabilities using agreed upon virus detection and vulnerability scanning tools.

Assessment Team Equipment and Software

Appendix F contains the list of approved test team equipment. The [Organization] shall not use equipment outside of this list without consultation and approval from the [Component] [POC].

Appendix G contains the list of approved test team software. The [Organization] shall not use software outside of this without consultation and approval from the [Component] [POC].

Target Network Determination

Prior to initiating any assessment activities, [Component] and the [Organization] will identify targeted (host) systems with a defined range/list of network IP addresses. The [Organization] will work with [Component] to determine which network ranges are to be considered part of the valid and allowable range.  Subnets or network segments connected to the [System Name] system but not included in the scope of the assessment, or that are owned by outside contractors, will not be considered within the allowable test range. Additionally, the [Component] POC should indicate any additional systems that are to be considered critical to mission function and are excluded from assessment activities.

[Component] will ensure that IP network addresses that are identified as in scope are hosted in [Component] facilities (e.g. not hosted by an external organization).

Appendix B.1 lists all IP network ranges identified by [Component] as in scope for network reconnaissance. 

Appendix B.2 lists all IP network ranges identified by [Component] as in scope for web application assessment and penetration testing. 

Appendix B.3 lists all IP network ranges identified by [Component] as in scope for Network/OS assessment. 

Appendix B.4 lists all IP network ranges identified by [Component] as in scope for database assessment. 

Appendix B.5 lists all IP network ranges identified by [Component] as excluded from all assessment activities.

Prior to any spear phishing activities, [Component] and the [Organization] will identify specific email addresses for the [Organization] to target. The [Component] will specifically monitor and quarantine the selected email accounts to ensure the social engineering activities do not escape the scope of the assessment.



Rules of Engagement

The ROE is mandatory and will not be deviated from without first obtaining written concurrence from the [Organization] and authorized representatives from the [Component] senior leadership.

System Backups

The [Component] is responsible for ensuring that system backups have been performed and that a restore process is validated prior to the start of the security assessment.  This is a mandatory requirement for all mission critical systems in case of an inadvertent outage requiring system restoration. If system backups are not performed on mission critical systems, those systems must be identified by the [Component] prior to the assessment and excluded from assessment activities.

Applied Conditions for Testing

The [Organization] will only conduct vulnerability scan and penetration test activities against systems that reside within the [System Name] specified system architectures. As agreed to prior to testing, information-gathering tests and automated vulnerability scanning may be conducted at will within the agreed upon testing time-frame and testing windows. All components within the [System Name] that are not are listed in Appendix B.6 are considered to be within the scope of the testing. If any system component is deemed off-limits for the test, the [Component] POC must provide notice to the [Organization] prior to testing activities begin.  

Test Commencement

No testing activities will be conducted without prior approval of the [Component] POC.  

Impact Coordination

The [Organization] will make every reasonable effort to limit the operational impact of testing and ensure that network availability and data integrity are in no way compromised.  General vulnerability scanning is non-intrusive and should not affect normal network connectivity or host operations. Any vulnerability scanning or penetration testing techniques that may adversely impact network or host performance will not be conducted without prior permission of the [Component] POC.

Incident Handling and Reporting

Occasionally assessment activities have the unintentional consequence of causing an incident on the network despite the various countermeasures that are in place.  In case of an incident, it is the responsibility of the [Organization], in conjunction with the Trusted Agent(s), to contact the [Component] CSIRC, or similar organization.



If an incident occurs that is not a direct result of testing but which further testing may hinder remediation and/or investigation of the incident, it is the responsibility of the [Component] CSIRC, or similar organization, to notify the [Organization] through the TA.

Termination of Testing

At any point during the testing, the [Component] POC, TA, or designated personnel can command a pause or termination of the test. Should the tests be terminated, the [Organization] will document the rationale given by the POC for the termination, including a description of the potential adverse consequences that might have occurred if the testing continued.

The [Organization] will give verbal notification to the [Component] POC should any unforeseen event occur that impacts the client environment.  In addition, immediate notification will be made by the [Organization] Team Lead should any vulnerabilities be discovered that present imminent risk to the [System Name] system or the overall [Component] network.  

The termination of testing memorandum is located in Appendix E. This memorandum will be completed and signed by both the [Organization] Team Lead and [Component] POC requesting termination of testing.

Rules for Detection by Monitoring Systems

During the course of performing the assessment, the [Component] CSIRC, or similar organization, and the [System Name] network and\or systems management center shall be fully aware of assessment activities.

Communications Check

Prior to the commencement of any testing, the assessment team will confirm that the target network and devices are accessible from the provided network access points.  The team will also validate that all person-to-person communication methods identified in the assessment plan are accurate and working.

Security

The [Organization] will perform testing using an assessment platform built to a standard configuration and maintained under a [Organization] approved change management control process.  The assessment equipment contains exploit tools, code and technical references, which are not to be viewed, distributed or evaluated by external organizations. Under no circumstances will assessment platforms be relinquished from the control of the [Organization].

During testing, audit logs will be used to monitor the [Organization]’s activities. Team members will keep a journal of comments in text and screen-shots documenting the assessment activities and times during testing.




 Data Handling

The test team and [Component] are responsible for protecting all work papers, interim results, and summaries of results from disclosure consistent with the sensitivity and classification of the information. 

Under no circumstances shall any [Component] data or files be modified or deleted. However, to demonstrate potential user access vulnerabilities, the test team may copy a file, open a file, or write a non-disruptive text file to the target host with no direct modification of data. This file, after being written to, will be immediately restored to the original condition by the test team and the [Component] trusted agent.

Raw test data and results will be considered Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU). After the engagement, all [Component] data will be securely deleted from assessment laptop, as defined by the [Component] media sanitization policy, and stored at the [[Component] assessment location].  All data and test results will remain private between [Organization] and [Component] unless authorized by both parties.  

 Personally Identifiable Information

The [Organization] has no intention of viewing, storing or processing personally identifiable information (PII).  If the assessment team members inadvertently view and store user files or any other data contained in the [Component]’s IT environment that are part of a government agency system of records on individuals, this information will be identified to the [Component] for handling consistent with Privacy Act (5 U.S.C §552a) and any other applicable regulations.

 Password Tests

The [Organization] WILL NOT perform active password manipulation or password attacks (i.e. online password guessing) in this assessment. Password files captured from [Component] devices, or provided by the organization, may be loaded onto offline workstations for decryption. This relieves the processing workload of the password decryption tool from the test team's primary workstation and also prevents decrypted, live-system passwords from being stored on a system connected to the target network or Internet. At no time will a captured password file or the decrypted passwords be revealed to persons not officially participating in the security test.




Assessment Support

Prior to the onsite portion of the assessment, the [Organization] requests (if possible) [Component] provide the following documentation to assist in the planning, security review, and to increase efficiency of onsite testing:

General System Design Information

To include summary of system components

Specific hardware platforms used (brand) Operating System (OS) used within the system

Servers

Network devices

Workstations

Firewalls

Software list containing all software used on the system and the current version of that software

Specific configuration data for the environment being tested to include:

Network diagrams

IP Charts (can provide once onsite if considered sensitive information)

List of all equipment that is within the bounds of the test

Any limitations for the assessments



Once on site, the [Organization] requests (if possible) [Component] provide the following documentation for security review and to enable comprehensive testing of the [System Name] system. This documentation will include:

Production configuration files for:

Router

Switches

Firewalls

Intrusion Detection System (IDS)

Other security devices

Account Passwords

System administrative accounts

Web Application user or administrative accounts

Database administrative accounts

Network equipment access accounts



The following events are anticipated to require expenditure of [Component] staff time:

In Brief Attendance

Testing Coordination

Testing Observation (if desired)

Review of Deliverables and Documentation of Comments/Questions

Out Brief Attendance




Assessment Results

After Action Review

If [Component] desires, a daily out-brief will be provided by the [Organization] Team Lead to personnel specified by the [Component]. The briefing will cover daily assessment activities and high-level daily assessment findings.



Upon the completion of all assessment activities, the [Organization] Team Lead will provide personnel specified by the [Component] with an after-action out-brief.  This briefing will cover the testing methodologies used, the results of those testing methodologies, and high-level recommended fix actions.  The intent of this briefing is to highlight the results from testing as well as provide an overall organizational risk picture.

Raw Assessment Results

The [Organization] will provide the [Component] POC with at least two (2) copies of the raw technical assessment data.  This data will be provided on a recordable Compact Disc (CD) or Digital Video Disc (DVD) or transferred to the POC with a secure Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive.  This will allow [Component] personnel to review the detailed scan results and to perform independent analysis of the scan results if desired.

In addition, [Organization] will securely store raw assessment data at the [Organization] facility located in [facility location].  [Organization] will not disclose any source information obtained from the [Component] or results attributable to this testing to any unauthorized third parties.

Final Report

At the conclusion of all testing activities, a final report will be prepared for presentation to designated [Component] personnel.  The report will include an overview of methods used, including descriptions of any tools or manual processes; any vulnerabilities that present easily exploitable targets for attackers with a highly successful penetration; an assessment of risk represented by the vulnerabilities; and recommendations for countermeasures that will mitigate the residual risk created by the vulnerabilities to an acceptable level.

A draft report will be provided to the [Component] no later than two (2) weeks after the conclusion of test activities.  Following a review of the draft report, the [Component] shall provide comments, requested corrections or changes to the [Organization] within five business days of receipt of draft report.  The [Organization] shall deliver to [Component] a final report within five business days of receipt of [Component] comments. 




Dispute Resolution

In the event that disagreement(s) arise between the [Component] and the [Organization] during testing, the following individuals will determine the final resolution:

Table 5: Dispute Resolution – Executive Level Leadership from [Organization]



Table 6: Dispute Resolution – [Component]






Rules of Engagement and Test Plan Approval







[Name]									             Date

[Title]

[Component]







[Team Leader]									Date

[Assessment Project Manager or designated Authoritative Personnel]

[Organization]




Appendix A: Acronyms




Appendix B:  Included and Excluded IPs/URLs



B.1 Included IPs Network Reconnaissance





B.2 Included IPs Web Application Assessment  






B.3 Included IPs Network/OS Assessment   





B.4 Included IPs Database Assessment   








B.5 Excluded IPs 








Appendix C:  Approved Tools





Approved tools list may potentially include such products as Nmap (Zenmap), Nessus, AppDetective, and Hailstorm for the Windows operating system. The actual approved tools list will be negotiated between [Organization] and the [Component] during the drafting of the ROE. 






Appendix D:  Approved Assessment Team Equipment








Appendix E:  Termination of Assessment Activities Memorandum



This memorandum will establish an understanding between SSA and [Organization] to ensure that all parties are in agreement on the conditions that may exist and result in the termination of this security testing effort.



The test team will notify the designated SSA POC and TA if a significant event should occur during testing which results in the Assessment Team or the SSA desiring a termination of the testing.  The POC and TA should have the knowledge and understanding of the significant events that would lead the SSA to direct the test team to terminate the testing.



The reason for the termination must be documented below.  The signatures indicate agreement by all parties on the reason for termination of the testing.



Reason for termination of testing:

______________________________________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________

















Assessment Team Lead  





Signature:	 									Date



___________________________________________					

Name and Title:			          

 

SSA POC or TA  





Signature:	 									Date



___________________________________________

Name and Title:




Appendix F:  POC Listing

SSA Personnel







[Organization] Personnel



Appendix G:  Network Access Points







Revision Number

Revision Date

Page Number

Revision Summary

Name of Reviewer

V 0.1

00/00/0000

All

Enter a description of the change.

[Organization]



























































































































Responsibility

Name

Phone

E-mail

Organization

Project Manager









Assessment Lead









Security Analyst









Security Engineer









Security Engineer











Role

Title

Name

Phone Number

Email Address

Primary POC









Secondary POC









Other POC











Role

Title

Name

Phone Number

Email Address

Primary TA









Secondary TA









Other TA











Activity

Start Date

Finish Date

Responsible Party

[In brief, Out brief, etc]

[Start Date]

[Finish Date]



[Internal Penetration Testing, etc]

[Start Date] [Start Hour]

[Finish Date] [Finish Hour]













Title

Name

Phone Number

Email Address



























Title

Name

Phone Number

Email Address



























AC

Alternating Current

AP

Access Point

CD

Compact Disc

CFE

Customer Furnished Equipment

CIO

Chief Information Officer

CSIRC

Computer Security Incident Response Capability

DVD

Digital Video Disc

FDCC

Federal Desktop Core Configuration

ID

Identification

IDS

Intrusion Detection System

IP

Internet Protocol

ISP

Internet Service Provider

IT

Information Technology

NIST

National Institute of Standards and Technology

OS

Operating System

OSSTMM

Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual

OWASP

Open Web Application Security Project

PII

Personally Identifiable Information

POC

Point of Contact

ROE

Rules of Engagement

SBU

Sensitive but Unclassified

SDLC

Software Development Lifecycle

SP

Special Publication

TA

Trusted Agent

URL

Uniform Resource Locator

USB

Universal Serial Bus

USGCB

United States Government Configuration Baselines

WLAN

Wireless Local Area Network



Application/Technology Component

IP / URL



























Application/Technology Component

IP / URL























Application/Technology Component

IP / URL























Application/Technology Component

IP / URL























Application/Technology Component

IP / URL























Tool

Operating System







































Model

Serial Number

Description







































Title \ Role

Name

Phone Number

Email Address



















































































Title \ Role

Name

Phone Number

Email Address



































Network Segment

(CIDR notation)

Access Point Physical Location

Provided Access Point

Provided Access Point

Provided Access Point

Network Segment

(CIDR notation)

Access Point Physical Location

IP

Subnet Mask

Default Gateway






























                                                            Attachment 4 - Definitions


This contract includes several advanced terms relating to Information Security that are  applicable  to  the  work  required.   Unless  otherwise
defined elsewhere in the contract, the following definitions apply:

Advanced Persistent Threat Monitoring: A term used in reference to monitoring long-term  patterns  of  sophisticated  hacking  attacks  aimed  at
governments and companies, and by implication, also to refer to the groups behind those attacks.  An APT, in context of a  group,  contains  both
the capability and intent to persistently and effectively target a specific entity.

Adversarial Methodology: The combined methodologies and practices employed by hackers and users with  malicious  intent  against  an  information
system for the purposes of violating the security of the information system and attacking specific systems (e.g., denial  or  service,  injection
attacks, or phishing).  These methodologies and practices are used during penetration testing to scope the type of testing performed on a  system
to mimic an attacker with an adversarial intent to  discover  if  information  systems  are  exploitable  through  the  implementation  of  these
practices.

Adversarial System/Infrastructure Testing: A method of penetration testing using an adversarial methodology to  discover  vulnerabilities  within
your system/infrastructure based on the technology types that compose the information system/infrastructure.


Federal Holidays:  Days that the Government classified as a Federal Holiday and SSA suspends normal business operations.  These days include:

      New Years Day          Labor Day
      Martin Luther King Day Columbus Day
      Presidents' Day        Veterans' Day
      Memorial Day                 Thanksgiving Day
      Independence Day       Christmas Day

Analytical Engineer: At least two years of experience in defining security policies and procedures for  the  protection  of  information  and  IT
systems.  At least one-year experience analyzing the sensitivity of information and  performing  vulnerability  and  risk  assessments  based  on
defined sensitivity and information flow.  At least one year experience using the Cyber  Security  Assessment  and  Management  tool.   Possesses
Security+, CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional), or CISA (Certified  Information  Systems  Auditor)  information  security
certification.

Implementation Guidelines: The purpose of the Implementation Guidelines is to help protect people, property,  products,  processes,  information,
and information systems by enhancing security with effective security control implementations to  address  the  Confidentiality,  Integrity,  and
Availability of an information system.

Independent Verification and Validation: A comprehensive review, analysis, and testing, (software and/or  hardware)  performed  by  an  objective
third party to confirm (i.e., verify) that the requirements are correctly defined, and to confirm (i.e.,  validate)  that  the  system  correctly
implements the required functionality and security requirements.

Information Assurance: Measures that protect  and  defend  information  and  information  systems  by  ensuring  their  availability,  integrity,
authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation.  These measures include providing for restoration of information systems  by  incorporating
protection, detection, and reaction capabilities.

Information Security Guidelines: A suggested action or recommendation to address  an  area  of  the  Information  Security  Policy.   A  security
guideline is not a mandatory action, and no disciplinary action should result from non-adoption.  However, Information  Security  Guidelines  are
considered Best Practice and should be implemented whenever possible.

Information Security Issues: Security Issues that  result  in  the  loss  of  confidentiality,  integrity,  or  availability  of  information  or
information systems and take into consideration the adverse impacts to organizational operations and assets,  individuals,  other  organizations,
and the Nation.

Information Security Reports: A series of reports that are  produced as a part of the Security Authorization process as denoted  in  NIST  800-37
Revision 1 â âGuide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systemsâ in support of  initiation  and  execution  of  the
agency Information Security Program.  These reports provide for the ongoing and continuous assessment of risk for the maintenance  and  operation
of agency information systems to maintain compliance with FISMA and follow the Office of Management and Budget guidelines as stated  in  Circular
A-130  Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources.

Information Security Risk Remediation: The steps  and  processes  taken  by  an  organization  to  mitigate,  correct  and  adjust  for  detected
deficiencies or vulnerabilities in an information system to minimize the risk associated with operation of the system.

Normal Business Hours:  Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., local time, precluding Federal Holidays.

Outside Normal Business Hours:  Monday through Friday, anytime after 5:00 p.m. but before 8:00 a.m., local time, Federal Holidays, and weekends.

Major Information System: An information system that requires special management attention because of its importance to an  agency  mission;  its
high development, operating, or maintenance costs; or its significant role in the administration  of  agency  programs,  finances,  property,  or
other resources.

Penetration Test: A security testing methodology in which assessors, typically working  under  specific  constraints  and  with  specific  tools,
attempt to circumvent or defeat the security features of an information system.

Penetration Test Manager: Oversees daily activities of Contractor staff associated with Penetration Tests.   This  individual  must  satisfy  the
qualifications requirements of a Subject Matter Expert as defined in Addendum B of the solicitation.

Project Manager: At least five years of experience in managing projects of varying sizes, with two years of specialized  IT  project  management.
At least two years of experience leading IT projects or multiple tasks and retaining overall  responsibility  for  performance,  including  cost,
schedule, deliverables, and overall contractual compliance.  At least one year of experience  supporting  Certification  &  Accreditation/Federal
Information Security Management Act policies and procedures.  Possesses CISSP, CISM (Certified Information Security  Manager),  or  PMP  (Project
Management Professional) information security certification.  The Project Manager shall oversee the daily  activities  of  Contractor  staff  and
serve as primary point of contact for discussions with COR or Task Manager  throughout the Period of Performance.

Risk: A measure of the extent to which a potential circumstance or event threatens an entity, and typically a function  of  the  adverse  impacts
that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and the likelihood of occurrence.  Information  system-related  security  risks  are  those
risks that arise from the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems  and  reflect  the  potential
adverse impacts to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or  reputation),  organizational  assets,  individuals,  other
organizations, and the Nation.

Risk Assessment: The process of identifying the risks to system security and determining the probability of  occurrence,  the  resulting  impact,
and additional safeguards that would mitigate this impact. Risk Assessments are part of Risk Management and synonymous with Risk Analysis.


Security Assessment: Systematic examination of an information system or  product  to  determine  the  adequacy  of  security  measures,  identify
security deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security measures,  and  confirm  the  adequacy  of  such
measures  after  implementation.   Aspects  of  security  assessment  include  Independent  Verification  and  Validation  and  Risk  Assessment.






Security Authorization: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official  to  authorize  operation  of  an  information
system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations  (including  mission,  functions,  image,  or  reputation),  organizational
assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Security Authorization Support Services: Services that employ the methodologies prescribed by the NIST Risk Management Framework that  result  in
identification of residual risk and recommended corrective action, where applicable.

Security Control Measure: The  management,  operational,  and  technical  controls  (i.e.,  safeguards  or  countermeasures)  prescribed  for  an
information system to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

Senior Analytical Engineer: At least six years related experience in the IT industry with two years of experience in defining  security  policies
and  procedures  for  the  protection  of  information  and  IT  systems.   At  least  four  years   of   experience   supporting   Certification
&Accreditation/Federal Information Security Management  Act  projects  using  NIST  standards.   At  least  one  year  experience  analyzing  the
sensitivity of information and performing vulnerability and risk assessments based on defined sensitivity and information  flow.   At  least  one
year experience using the Cyber Security Assessment and  Management  tool.   Possesses  CISSP  or  CSSLP  (Certified  Secure  Software  Lifecycle
Professional) information security certification.

Subject Matter Expert: At least ten years of highly specialized IT and/or management experience in the required subject matter.  Coordinates  and
manages the technical analysis for Risk, Compliance, and Security; Enterprise Resilience; and Information  Technology  services.   At  least  one
year of experience supporting Certification & Accreditation/Federal Information Security  Management  Act  policies  and  procedures.   Possesses
CISSP, CEH (Certified Ethical Hacker), or GPEN (GIAC Penetration Tester) information security certification.

Vulnerability: Weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited  by  a
threat source.


Attachment 5 – Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information

Contractor and Subcontractor Employees:  See last page of this attachment for instructions on completing this worksheet.

1. My primary SSA contact for reporting the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII is:

   The alternates to this primary contact are as follows:


      First Alternate:

2. Information about the individual making the report to SSA’s Network Customer Service Center (NCSC):

|Name:             |                                                                                                  |
|Position:         |                                                                                                  |
|Deputy Commissioner Level Organization:                           |DCS/OTSO                                          |
|Phone Numbers:                                                                                                       |
|Work:       |                        |Cell:    |                       |Home/Other:          |                       |
|E-mail Address:           |                                                                                          |
|Check one of the following:                                                                                          |
|   Management Official                |   |Security Officer             |   |Non-Management                        |   |



      Additional Information (to be provided when a contractor or subcontractor employee is reporting directly to the NCSC):
        *Contractor/Subcontractor (circle as appropriate):
      **SSA Contract Number (if known):

3. Information about the data that was lost/stolen:

    Describe what was lost or stolen (e.g., case file, MBR (Master Beneficiary Record) data):


    Which element(s) of PII did the data contain?
|Name                                      |            |Bank Account Info                              |            |
|SSN                                       |            |Medical/Health Information                     |            |
|Date of Birth                             |            |Benefit Payment Info                           |            |
|Place of Birth                            |            |Mother’s Maiden Name                           |            |
|Address                                   |            |Other (describe):                                            |


    Estimated volume of records involved:


4. How was the data physically stored, packaged and/or contained?

    Paper   or   Electronic? (circle one):


    If Electronic, what type of device?
|Laptop                 |    |Tablet               |   |Backup Tape             |     |Blackberry                   |    |
|Workstation            |    |Server               |   |CD/DVD                  |     |Blackberry Phone #                |
|Hard Drive             |    |Floppy Disk          |   |USB Drive               |     |                                  |
|Other (describe):                                                                                                       |




    Additional Questions if Electronic:
|                                                                                   |Yes     |No      |Not Sure         |
|a.  Was the device encrypted?                                                      |        |        |                 |
|b.  Was the device password protected?                                             |        |        |                 |
|c.  If a laptop or tablet, was a VPN SmartCard lost?                               |        |        |                 |
|                                                                                                                      |
|Cardholder’s Name:                                                                                                    |
|       Cardholder’s SSA logon PIN:                                                                                    |
|       Hardware Make/Model:                                                                                           |
|       Hardware Serial Number:                                                                                        |


     Additional Questions if Paper:
|                                                                                   |Yes     |No      |Not Sure         |
|a.  Was the information in a locked briefcase?                                     |        |        |                 |
|b.  Was the information in a locked cabinet or drawer?                             |        |        |                 |
|c.  Was the information in a locked vehicle trunk?                                 |        |        |                 |
|d.  Was the information redacted?                                                  |        |        |                 |
|e.  Other circumstances:                                                                                              |


5. If the employee/Contractor/subcontractor who was in possession of the data or to whom the data was assigned  is  not  the  person  making  the
   report to the NCSC (as listed in #1), information about this employee/Contractor/subcontractor:

|Name:             |                                                                                                  |
|Position:         |                                                                                                  |
|Deputy Commissioner Level Organization:                           |[Contracting Officer: fill in]                    |
|Phone Numbers:                                                                                                       |
|Work:       |                        |Cell:    |                       |Home/Other:          |                       |
|E-mail Address:           |                                                                                          |


    Additional Information (to be provided when person who was in possession of the data or assigned to the data is  a  Contractor/subcontractor
    employee):
        *Contractor/Subcontractor (circle as appropriate):
      **SSA Contract Number (if known):


6. Circumstances of the loss:
    a.      When was it lost/stolen?


    b.     Brief description of how the loss/theft occurred:


    c.     When was it reported to SSA management official (date and time)?








7. Have any other SSA components been contacted?  If so,  who?  (Include  deputy  commissioner  level,  agency  level,  regional/associate  level
   component names)




8. Which reports have been filed? (include FPS, local police, and SSA reports)


    |Report Filed                                   |Yes     |No     |Report Number                                         |
|Federal Protective Service                     |        |       |                                                      |
|Local Police                                   |        |       |                                                      |
|                                                                                                  |Yes       |No      |
|SSA-3114 (Incident Alert) -- Not Applicable for Contractors or  Subcontractors                    |          |        |
|SSA-342 (Report of Survey) -- Not Applicable for Contractors or  Subcontractors                   |          |        |
|Other (describe)                                                                                                      |



INSTRUCTIONS (to the Contractor/Subcontractor Employee):  Worksheet for Reporting Loss or Potential Loss of Personally Identifiable Information


 1. If you are reporting the incident to the primaary SSA contact, only complete Items 3 through 6.  Special notes regarding Item 5:


        • For “Position,” write “Contractor Employee” or “Subcontractor Employee,” as applicable, followed by a hyphen and your job  title  under
          the contract.


        • With respect to Deputy Commissioner Level Organization, this should be the SSA Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative  (COTR)’s
          Deputy Commissioner Office and should already be provided on the form.  If it is not (and you do not know this), have your  primary  or
          alternate contact, as applicable, complete the information.

        • Be sure to provide the additional information regarding your company/organization’s name and, if known,  the  Agency-assigned  contract
          number.


 2. If you are reporting the incident directly to the NCSC, complete all items to the extent possible (note:  Item 4 will be “not  applicable”).
    Special notes regarding Item 2:


        • For “Position,” write “Contractor Employee” or “Subcontractor Employee,” as applicable, followed by a hyphen and your job  title  under
          the contract.


        • With respect to Deputy Commissioner Level Organization, this should be the SSA COTR’s Deputy Commissioner Office and should already  be
          provided on the form.  If it is not and you do not know this information, try to identify the name of the main program office which the
          contract is servicing (e.g., Office of Telecommunications and Systems Operations).

        • Be sure to provide the additional information regarding your company/organization’s name and, if known,  the  Agency-assigned  contract
          number.




                                                      Attachment 6 – Reference Questionnaire

                                                   (Sample Cover Letter for Company Letterhead)



Dear Sir or Madam:

The Social Security Administration is soliciting proposals for the acquisition of Independent Verification and  Validation  support  services  to
meet its information assurance and security mission.  We plan to submit a response to this acquisition and have designated  you  as  one  of  our
references.  We request your assistance in this process by asking you to complete the attached questionnaire with regard to  your  evaluation  of
our experience and past performance.

By submitting this information, you are assisting the Federal Government in determining which Contractor is  offering  the  best  value.   Please
submit your responses to the following address:

      ATTN: Christopher Mettee
      Social Security Administration
      Office of Acquisition and Grants
      7111 Security Boulevard
      1st Floor, Rear Entrance
      Baltimore, MD 21244-1811

Or electronically to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov

Or by Facsimile to 410-965-9560

The Government must receive responses by Close of Business, July 20, 2012.  We appreciate your timeliness in this matter.

Thank you in advance for your assistance.

                                  Sincerely,



                                  _______________________
                                                                                      (Company)
Attachment 6 - Reference Questionnaire (Experience)       Date:_____________


Reference for (Prime)_________________________   (Sub) ________________________


Company:______________________________________________


Contact Name:___________________         Contact Phone:__________________________


   1. What is your involvement with the contract?  What type of organization are you with? Please provide brief explanation.


      a. Contracts/Purchasing? b. Program Office?




      a. Federal Government? b. State/Local Government?
      c. For Profit Organization? d. Non-profit Organization?




   2. What type of service did the Contractor provide for your organization?






   3. What was the geographic scope of the contract?






   4. What is the number of locations supported under the contract?






   5. Did the Contractor perform Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) assessments, Federal penetration tests, Federal risk assessments,
      and proposed Federal information security policies and procedures?  If yes, please identify the frequency.






   6. Did the Contractor prepare Information Technology System Security Categorization reviews that adhered to NIST SP 800-60 and FIPS 199
      guidelines and standards?  If yes, please identify the frequency.




   7. Did the Contractor document security authorization boundaries that fully satisfied the best practice guidelines of NIST Security Management
      & Assurance, Federal Agency Security Practices, Boundary/Scope Memos.  If yes, please identify the frequency.






   8. Did the Contractor provide IV&V assessment plans that proposed assessment of security control set that adhered to NIST SP 800-53 revision 3
      control baseline requirements?  If yes, please identify the frequency.






   9. Did the Contractor documented results of security control assessments with complete and accurate Security Assessment Reports, identified
      risk levels for all identified vulnerabilities, and recommended corrective actions?






  10. Did the Contractor’s documented results of security control assessments fully satisfy assessment results reporting requirements of NIST SP
      800-53 revision 3 and NIST SP 800-37?







      Attachment 6 - Reference Questionnaire (Past Performance – Part I)

Please answer the following questions regarding the Contractor’s past performance.

1.  Did the Contractor perform satisfactorily, or in accordance with the scope of the contract?



2.  Did the Contractor/Subcontractor provide service in accordance with the scope of the contract within a reasonable timeline?



3.  If a problem arose, did the contractor/subcontractor take the necessary steps to resolve the problem as quickly as possible in accordance
with the contract terms and conditions?



4.  What are the Contractor’s strengths?



5.  What are the Contractor’s weaknesses?



6.  Would you do business with this company again?  Why?











Attachment 6 - Reference Questionnaire (Past Performance – Part II)

Instructions: Please rate the Contractor on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the highest ranking and 1 being  the  lowest.   Consider  the  following
scale when rating the identified factors:

      Excellent (8 to 10 Points) – Performance met all contract  requirements  and  exceeded  many  to  the  customer’s  benefit.   Problems,  if
      applicable, were negligible and were resolved in a timely, highly effective manner.


      Good (6 to 7 Points) – Performance met all contract requirements and exceeded some to the customer’s  benefit.   There  were  a  few  minor
      problems which the Contractor resolved in a timely, effective manner.


      Neutral (5 Points) – When there is no record of past performance or the record is inconclusive.


      Fair (3 to 4 Points) – Performance met contract requirements.  There were some problems and corrective actions taken by the Contractor were
      satisfactory.


      Poor (1 to 2 Points) – Performance did not meet most contractual requirements.  There were serious problems and the Contractor’s corrective
      actions were ineffective.

Please enter a numeric value in the space provided for each item or N/A if you consider it not applicable.

Quality of Product and Service

   1. The Contractor’s deliverables met contractual requirements.  Score____


   2. The Contractor was able to always satisfactorily resolve identified issues with required deliverables.  Score____

   3. The Contractor recommended and demonstrated ability to apply improvements to the customer’s information security program that elevated  the
      level of implemented security controls, thereby improving confidentiality, integrity, and availability assurances.  Score____

Schedule

   4. The Contractor appropriately protected (based on data sensitivity) documents and sensitive or classified agency information.  Score____

   5. The Contractor delivered at the time and place defined in the contract.  Score____

   6. The Contractor submitted deliverables in the prescribed format and media, demonstrating version control and comment resolution.  Score____

   7. The Contractor remained on schedule and met contractual milestones.  Score____

Cost Control

   8. The Contractor’s invoices requested funds consistent with work performed, and did not exceed awarded funding ceiling.  Score____

   9. The Contractor’s travel expenses did not exceed those permissible under the contract.  Score____

  10. Costs incurred by the Contractor for services delivered were reasonable.  Score____

  11. Applied skill set, labor categories, and number of resources needed by Contractor to accomplish the  IV&V  services,  penetration  testing,
      risk assessments, and to propose information assurance policies and procedures was appropriate.  Score____

Business Relations

  12. The relationship between customer organization and contractor was positive.  Score____

  13. The Contractor demonstrated effective communication, and met with customer to incorporate feedback into deliverables.  Score____

  14. The Contractor regularly interacted with customer organization to identify issues and raise awareness of task status.  Score____

  15. The Contractor collaborated with customer organization, providing solutions to resolve issues that  threatened  to  negatively  affect  the
      tasks.  Score____

Management of Key Personnel

  16. The Contractor provided its personnel with a full understanding of the customer operating  environment  and  Federal  information  security
      assessment and authorization requirements.  Score____

  17. Whenever key personnel changes occurred, the Contractor’s replacements possessed necessary qualifications satisfying contract requirements,
      and contractor integrated new staff into project team in fashion that allowed seamless continuation of schedule.  Score____

  18. The Contractor’s staff  possessed  industry  recognized  professional  information  security  credentials  to  adequately  address  Federal
      information security requirements as prescribed by Office of Management and Budget, National Institute of  Standards  and  Technology,  and
      customer published policies.  Score____

  19. Customer satisfaction with Contractor’s ability to follow the security procedures of the contract.  Score____

Overall Rating

  20. Overall customer satisfaction with contractor’s performance.  Score____

If you provided the Contractor with a high or low rating, please provide any comments relative to the  prime  contractor  or  its  subcontractors
relative to its performance under your contract.








                                                       QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN
                                                                   Attachment 7

                                                       Office of Information Security (OIS)

                                                                 - working with -

                                                      Office of Acquisition and Grants (OAG)
                                           Division of Information Technology Support Services (DITSS)


























                                                          Social Security Administration
                                                      Independent Verification & Validation






                                                Attachment 7: Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan


   1. General

      1.1   Introduction


           Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 37.604 requires that agencies develop quality assurance surveillance plans (QASP) when acquiring
           services.  These plans shall recognize the responsibility of the contractor to carry out its quality control  obligations  and  shall
           contain measurable inspection and acceptance criteria corresponding to the performance standards contained in  the  performance  work
           statement (PWS).  FAR 46.401(a) stipulates that QASPs should specify 1) all  work  requiring  surveillance;  and  2)  the  method  of
           surveillance.  The Contractor, not the Government, is responsible for management and quality control actions necessary  to  meet  the
           obligations and requirements of the contract.  The role of the Government in quality assurance  is  to  ensure  that  the  Contractor
           achieves contract standards.


      1.2   Purpose


           The Social Security Administration’s (SSA) Office of Information Security (OIS) developed this QASP for review  of  the  Contractor’s
           initiatives in meeting performance goals.  The QASP defines procures that the Government may follow to  verify  that  the  Contractor
           meets required performance standards as specified in the Statement of Work (SOW).  A QASP is a guide for review, and  the  Government
           may change its review procedures over the course of the contract,  to  ensure  that  the  Contractor  successfully  performs  on  the
           Contract.


      1.3   Government Approach


           The Government will monitor work performed through the services of the Contracting Officer (CO), Contracting Officer’s Representative
           (COR), and/or Quality Assurance Technician (QAT).  The QASP comprehensively guides the COR/QAT’s activities and is  in  a  format  to
           facilitate understanding and implementation.


           The COR/QAT will evaluate the Contractor’s  performance  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  contract.   The  COR/QAT  may  point  out
           discrepancies to the Contractor as noted in the course of evaluation duties.  However, the COR/QAT may neither direct the  Contractor
           outside of the scope or intent of the contract, nor tell the Contractor how to perform a task.


           The COR/QAT will conduct checks on how the Contractor performs LAN maintenance services.  The Performance Requirements  Summary  (See
           Exhibit 1) identifies the acceptable quality levels for Contractor performance.  The Government will use the  Contractor  Discrepancy
           Report (Exhibit 2) for quality assurance surveillance.  The COR will work with SSA end-users to determine the  success  of  the  IV&V
           contract.


   2. Roles and Responsibilities

        1. Contracting Officer

           The CO is responsible for monitoring contract compliance, contract administration, and for  resolving  any  differences  between  the
           observations documented by the COR or QAT.  The CO will designate one full-time COR  as  the  Government  authority  for  performance
           management.  The number of additional representatives serving as technical inspectors depends  on  the  complexity  of  the  services
           measured, as well as the Contractor’s performance.

      2.2   Contracting Officer’s Representative

           The CO designated the COR, in writing, to act as his or her authorized representative to assist in  administering  a  contract.   The
           COR’s written appointment letter identifies the COR’s limitations.  The COR  is  responsible  for  technical  administration  of  the
           project, and ensures proper Government surveillance of  the  Contractor’s  performance.   The  COR  is  not  empowered  to  make  any
           contractual commitments or to authorize any contractual changes on the Government’s behalf.  The Contract must refer any changes that
           the Contractor deems may affect contract price, terms, or conditions to the CO for  action.   The  COR  has  the  responsibility  for
           completing quality assurance monitoring forms to document inspection and evaluation of the Contractor’s work performance.

3.0   Methodologies to Monitor Performance

      3.1   Surveillance Techniques


           In an effort to minimize the performance management burden, SSA intends to use simplified surveillance methods to evaluate contractor
           performance when appropriate.  The primary methods of surveillance include:


               • Random Sampling: Random surveys of end-users.  The COR/QAT will use the Ansi Zi table at Exhibit 2 and the number  of  incidents
                 to determine the number of surveys to distribute;


               •  Incidental  Observation:  Onsite  review  of  the  Contractor  performing  onsite  maintenance,  task  orders,  drop  shipment,
                 addition/removal/substitution of equipment, destruction of failed hard drives, and reporting requirement;


               • 100% Inspection: Review of all information reported, or hands-on inspection of the contract deliverables.


      3.2   Customer Feedback


           SSA expects the Contractor to establish and maintain professional communication between its employees  and  customers.   The  primary
           objective of this communication is customer satisfaction.  Customer satisfaction is the most significant external  indicator  of  the
           success and effectiveness of all services provided and customer complains are an effective measure of this effectiveness.


           Performance management drives the Contractor to focus on customers through internally addressing customer complains and investigating
           issues/problems; however, the customer always has the option to communicate complaints to the CO, COR, or  QAT,  as  opposed  to  the
           Contractor.


           For SSA to consider customer complaints valid, they must be clear and in writing, detailing the nature of the complaint; include some
           form of signature; and sent to the COR.  The COR will  accept  those  customer  complaints  and  investigate  using  the  information
           substantially the same as that contained in Exhibit 1.


           The COR may also obtain customer feedback either from the results of a formal customer satisfaction survey or  from  random  customer
           interviews.


           The COR must maintain all reports in the file, and make them available to the CO upon request.

      3.3   Acceptable Quality Levels

           SSA structured the Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL) included in Section 5.0 of the QASP, Performance Requirements Summary  Table,  for
           Contractor performance to allow the Contractor to manage how it performs the work.   SSA  set  critical  activities,  at  a  required
           performance level of 100 percent.  SSA entered other levels of performance to the relative importance of  the  task  to  the  overall
           mission performance.

4.0   Analysis of Quality Assurance Assessment

        1. Determining Performance

           SSA will use the monitoring methods cited to determine whether the Contractor met the performance standards.  If the Contractor has
           not met the minimum requirements, SSA may ask the Contractor to develop a corrective action plan to show how and by what date it
           intends to bring performance up to the required levels.  Moreover, SSA may ask the Contractor for consideration as a result of the
           lower performance level.  Consistent failure may result in other formal contractual remedies, possibly including termination.






        2. Reporting

           At the end of each quarter, the COR will prepare a written report for the CO summarizing the overall results of the quality assurance
           surveillance of the Contractor’s performance.  This written report, which includes information from the Contractor’s submitted
           reports and SSA’s internal information, will become part of the quality assurance document.  It will enable SSA to demonstrate
           whether the Contractor is meeting the stated performance standards.

        3. Reviews and Resolution

           The CO may require the Contractor’s project management, or a designated alternative, to meet with the COR and other government
           personnel, as deemed necessary, to discuss performance evaluation.  The CO will define a frequency of in-depth reviews with the
           Contractor, including appropriate self-assessments by the Contractor; however, if the need arises, the Contractor may meet with the
           CO or COR as often as required or per the Contractor’s request.  The agenda of the reviews may include, but are not limited to, the
           following:


               • Monthly performance assessment data and trend analysis;
               • Issues and concerns of both parties;
               • Projected outlook for upcoming months and progress against expected trends, including corrective action plan analysis;
               • Recommendations for improved efficiency and/or effectiveness; and
               • Issues arising from the performance monitoring process.

           The COR must coordinate and communicate with the Contractor to resolve issues and concerns regarding marginal or unacceptable
           performance.


           The CO and the Contractor should jointly formulate tactical and long-term courses of action.  SSA and the Contractor must clearly
           document decisions regarding changes to metrics, thresholds, or service levels via bilateral contract modification.

5.0   Required Performance Standards/Quality Levels

      For the identification of required performance standards and quality levels, please see  below.   If  the  Contractor  meets  the  required
      service or performance level, the Government will pay the Contractor based on the number and types of reports successfully completed at the
      rates identified in Attachment 1, Pricing Tables.








      |Performance Requirement                                   |Standard            |Acceptable Quality Level |Method of Surveillance                |
|                                                          |                    |(AQL)                    |                                      |
|                                                          |                    |                         |                                      |
|Contract deliverables submitted without Major Revisions   |Quality             |90%                      |100% Inspection                       |
|Major Revisions corrected deficiencies identified by SSA. |Quality             |90%                      |100% Inspection                       |
|Contract deliverables submitted for Functional Area 3 met |Quality             |90%                      |100% Inspection                       |
|quality requirements specified for that work.             |                    |                         |                                      |
|Contract deliverables submitted for Functional Area 4 met |Quality             |90%                      |Incidental Observation                |
|quality requirements specified for that work.             |                    |                         |                                      |
|All deliverables submitted timely.                        |Timeliness          |80%                      |Incidental Observation                |
|All non-timely deliverables submitted by new date mutually|Quality             |100%                     |100% Inspection                       |
|agreed to in writing by the Contractor and the Contracting|                    |                         |                                      |
|Officer.                                                  |                    |                         |                                      |
|Major Revisions and Minor Revision corrected by date and  |Timeliness          |80%                      |100% Inspection                       |
|time specified in the Task Order and ROE (when            |                    |                         |                                      |
|applicable).                                              |                    |                         |                                      |
|Major Revisions and Minor Revisions not submitted timely  |Quality             |90%                      |Incidental Observation                |
|corrected by 15-days after date and time specified in the |                    |                         |                                      |
|Task Order and ROE (when applicable), or as otherwise     |                    |                         |                                      |
|specified in writing by the COR or Task Manager.          |                    |                         |                                      |
|Proposals submitted within 15 days of receipt of a RFTOP. |Quality             |80%                      |Incidental Observation                |
|Customer satisfaction surveys submitted by the COR,       |Quality             |80%                      |Random Sampling                       |
|end-users, or Task Manager, after completion of work under|                    |                         |                                      |
|any Functional Area, return with an overall Contractor    |                    |                         |                                      |
|performance satisfaction level of “GOOD” or higher.       |                    |                         |                                      |


Exhibit 1: Contract Discrepancy Report (CDR)

|                                                                                                                                                       |
|CONTRACT DISCREPANCY REPORT                                                                                                                            |
|GOVERNMENT ACTION                                                                                                                                      |
|1. To (Contractor and Project Manager Name):                              |2. From (PO/QAT):                                                           |
|                                                                          |                                                                            |
|3. Discrepancy of Problem (Describe in detail. Attach continuation sheet if necessary.):                                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|4. Contractor Notified (Contact Point):                                                                         |5. Date & Time                         |
|                                                                                                                |                                       |
|6. Contract Administrator’s Signature:                                                                          |7. Date:                               |
|                                                                                                                |                                       |
|CONTRACTOR ACTION                                                                                                                                      |
|8. To Contract Administrator:                                               |9. From (Contractor Program Manager):                                     |
|                                                                            |                                                                          |
|10. Contractor Actions (Response to cause, corrective actions, and preventative measures):                                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|11. Contractor Program Manager’s Signature:                                                                     |12. Date                               |
|                                                                                                                |                                       |
|GOVERNMENT CLOSE-OUT                                                                                                                                   |
|13. Government Evaluation (Acceptance, Partial Acceptance, or Reaction):                                                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|14. Government Action (Cure Notice, Show Cause, Other):                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                       |
|15. Contracting Officer’s Signature:                                                                            |16. Date                               |
|                                                                                                                |                                       |
Exhibit 2: Sample Size Table

|ANSI ZI SAMPLE SIZES                                                                                               |
|Lot Size                    |Sample Size                        |Maximum Number of Defects                        |
|2-8                         |2                                  |0                                                |
|9-15                        |3                                  |0                                                |
|16-25                       |5                                  |0                                                |
|26-50                       |8                                  |0                                                |
|51-90                       |13                                 |1                                                |
|91-150                      |20                                 |1                                                |
|151-280                     |32                                 |2                                                |
|281-500                     |50                                 |3                                                |
|501-1,200                   |80                                 |4                                                |
|1,201-3,200                 |125                                |6                                                |
|3,201-10,000                |200                                |10                                               |
|10,001-35,000               |315                                |16                                               |
|35,001-150,000              |500                                |25                                               |
|150,001-500,000             |800                                |40                                               |
|500,000+                    |1250                               |63                                               |




                                                                  June 14, 2012



To Whom It May Concern:

The Social Security Administration (SSA) issued this Request for Proposal (RFP) to solicit proposals from responsible 8(a)  small  businesses  to
provide Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) support services.  The Office  of  Acquisition  and  Grants  (OAG)  is  working  with  its
customer, the Office of Information Security (OIS), to meet the Agency’s Information Security and Assurance objectives.   This  RFP  is  open  to
small businesses actively participating in the 8(a) Small Business Development  Program  under  North  American  Industry  Classification  System
(NAICS) Code Number 541519.  Ultimately, SSA intends to award a firm-fixed price, with firm-fixed  price  level-of-effort  elements,  Indefinite-
Delivery/Indefinite Quantity-type contract, spanning over five years, to the highest-rated and responsible 8(a) small business.

If you wish to submit a proposal in response to this Solicitation, you must e-mail your response  to  Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov.   In  addition,
you must deliver a hard copy of your response to the following address:

      Attn:  Christopher Mettee
      Social Security Administration
      Office of Acquisition and Grants
      First Floor, Rear Entrance
      7111 Security Boulevard
      Baltimore, MD  21244-1811


The DEADLINE for SUBMISSION OF INITIAL RESPONSES is June  27,  2011,  at  5:00  p.m.  Eastern  Time.   All  Offerors  must  follow  the  specific
instructions for responding to this RFP at Addendum E, Section 1.0, Instructions to Offerors (and its addenda at Addendum E,  Section  2.0),  and
Addendum E, Section 3.0, Evaluation.

Offerors must address any questions regarding this RFP in writing, and SSA must receive them by  June  21,  2012,  at  5:00  p.m.  Eastern  Time.
Offerors may send questions via e-mail to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov or via facsimile at (410) 965-9560.   For  any  general  procurement-related
information, Offerors may contact via telephone at (410) 965-9486.

                                  Sincerely,


                                  Christopher Mettee
                                  Contract Specialist

                                                                Table of Contents


Table of Contents      2


Addendum A – Standard Form (SF) 1449    5


Addendum B – Continuation of Standard Form   6

B-1   General Information    6

B-2   Pricing Table    7
B-2.1 Pricing Table Elements 7
B-2.2 Functional Area 1: Security Assessments      8
B-2.3 Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests   9
B-2.4 Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support 9
B-2.5 Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support    9
B-2.6 Miscellaneous – Travel-Related Expenses      10

B-3   Description of Services     11
B-3.1 Background 11
B-3.2 Objective  11
B-3.3 Security Assessment Requirements  12
B-3.4 Penetration Test Requirements     12
B-3.5 Information Assurance Policies and Procedures Support   13
B-3.6 Risk Management Framework Requirements 14
B-3.7 Deliverables     16
B-3.8 Acceptance 17
B-3.9 Assumptions      19
B-3.10      Rules of Engagement   20
B-3.11      Key Personnel    20
B-3.12      Reports    21
B-3.13      Quality Control Plan  23
B-3.14      Acceptable Quality Levels   24

Addendum C – Contract Clauses     27

C-1   FAR Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Feb 2012) 27

C-2   Addendum to FAR Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Feb      27
C-2.1 AS 3201 – Invoice Submission and Payment Related Information (Dec 2011)  27

C-3   52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (May 2012) 29

C-4   Additional FAR Clauses Incorporated by Reference   36

C-5   Additional FAR Clauses Incorporated by Full Text   36
C-5.1 52.216-18 – Ordering (Oct 1995)   37
C-5.2 52.216-19 – Order Limitations (Oct 1995)     37
C-5.3 52.216-22 – Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995)   37
C-5.4 52.217-8 – Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)    38
C-5.5 52.232.19 – Availability of Funds for the Next Fiscal Year (Apr 1984)    38

C-6   Additional Agency Specific Terms and Conditions    38
C-6.1 AS 0401 – Security and Suitability Requirements (Jun 2011)    39
C-6.2 AS 0402 – Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and Agency Privacy Management (Oct 2008)     49
C-6.3 AS 1902 – Section 8(a) Direct Award (Aug 2008)     51
C-6.4 AS 2401 – Protection of Confidential Information (Dec 2008)   52
C-6.5 AS 2402 – Protecting and Reporting the Loss of Personally Identifiable Information: Responsibilities Concerning Individual Employees (Dec
2008) 54
C-6.6 AS 3204 – Contract Funding During a Continuing Resolution (Jul 2011)     63
C-6.7 AS 4201 – Post Award Evaluation of Contractor Performance (Jul 2011)     63
C.6-8 AS 4202 – Designation of Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and Alternate COR (Jul      65
C-6.9 AS 4203 – Designation of Task Manager (TM) (MAY 2012)   67
C-6.10      AS 4501 – Designation of Property Administrator and Listing of Government Property (Nov   69
C-6.11      AS 4502 – Government Telecommunications/ Systems, Services, and Equipment Provided Under the Contract (Nov 2008)      71
C-6.12      Insurance Requirements (Oct 2009)      72
C-6.13      Task Order Procedures 73

Addendum D – Contract Documents, Exhibits, and Attachments    77

D-1   Attachment 1: Pricing Table 77
D-2   Attachment 2: List of SSA Major Applications 77
D-3   Attachment 3: Sample Rules of Engagement     77
D-4   Attachment 4: Definitions   77
D-5   Attachment 5: Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information  77
D-6   Attachment 6: Volume III Questionnaire 77
D-7   Attachment 7: Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan  77

Addendum E – Solicitation Provisions    78

E-1   FAR Provision 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (Feb 2012)   78

E-2   Addendum to FAR Provision 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items (Feb 2012)      78
E-2.1 Format of Proposals    78
E.2-2 Capabilities Statement 79
E-2.3 Volume I – Business and Price Response 80
E-2.4 Volume II - Technical Expertise   83
E-2.5 Volume III.A – Relevant Experience Information     85
E-2.6 Volume III.B - Past Performance Information  86
E-2.7 Inquiries  87
E-2.8 Response Due Date      87
E-2.9 Period for Acceptance of Offers   88
E-2.10      Multiple Awards  88

E-3   FAR Provision 52.212-2, Evaluation – Commercial Items (Jan 1999)    89
E-3.1 General    89
E-3.2 Stage 1: Capabilities  89
E-3.3 Stage 2: Non- Price Evaluation Factors 90
E-3.4 Stage 2: Price Evaluation Factors 97
E-3.5 Determination of Best Value 99

E-4   FAR Provision 52.212-3 – Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items (Apr 100

E-5   Additional FAR Provisions Incorporated by Full Text     112
E-5.1 FAR 52.209-7 – Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Apr 2010)   112
E-5.2 FAR 52.216-1 – Type of Contract (Aug 1984)   114
E-5.3 FAR 52.233-2 – Service of Protest (Aug 1996) 114

E-6   Additional FAR Provisions Incorporated by Reference     114


Addendum A – Standard Form (SF) 1449


See the attached Standard Form 1449.



Addendum B – Continuation of Standard Form



B-1   General Information


        a) This requirement is to establish a performance-based Indefinite-Delivery/Indefinite-Quantity  (ID/IQ)  contract  consisting  of  firm
           fixed-price and firm-fixed price level of effort Independent Verification and  Validation  (IV&V)  support  services.   The  ordering
           period of this Contract is for five years, beginning on September 29, 2012, and continuing until September 28, 2017.  The  last  date
           to place Task Orders under the contract is September 28, 2017.  Task Orders may extend beyond the end of the ordering period, not  to
           exceed September 28, 2018.


        b) Included within this requirement are four Functional Areas related to IV&V functions that support SSA’s Information Security (IS), as
           follows:


               • Functional Area 1: Security Assessments;
               • Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests; and
               • Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support; and
               • Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support.


           SSA will issue written Task Orders for work under this contract.  See Addendum C, Section 6.13 for applicable Task Order procedures.

        c) References


           For definitions of terms used within Addendum B, see Addendum D, Attachment 4.

           NIST Special Publication 800-53 revision 3, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems


           NIST Special Publication 800-53A, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems


           NIST Special Publication 800-37 revision 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems


           NIST Special Publication 800-30, Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems


           OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources


           The Contractor may obtain details about these references at the following website:
            http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/index.html


      (d)   Designation of Administering Contracting Specialist

           SSA designated Christopher Mettee, Contracting  Officer,  Division  of  Information  and  Technology  Support  Services  (DITSS),  to
           administer the contractual aspects of this contract.  Only the Contracting Officer may make changes in  the  scope  of  work,  price,
           quantity, quality, or delivery schedule by a  properly  executed  modification  or  task  order.   The  Contractor  must  submit  all
           correspondence that in any way concerns the terms or condition of this contract to the Contracting Officer at the following address:


                 Social Security Administration
                 Office of Acquisition and Grants
                 ATTN:  Christopher Mettee
                 7111 Security Boulevard
                 1st Floor, Rear Entrance
                 Baltimore, MD 21244-1811


                 Telephone Number:  (410) 965-9486
                 Email Address: Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov

      (e)   Contractor Project Manager


           The Contractor Project Manager has the responsibility for all services provided under this agreement and  full  management  authority
           for all Contractor personnel assigned to work on this project.  The project manager will serve as the primary point  of  contact  for
           the Government’s Contracting Officer Representative (COR) in matters concerning the agreement and will interact with other Government
           employees as appropriate.

           Name:            <Offeror to complete>


           Address:         <Offeror to complete>



           Telephone Number:      <Offeror to complete>


           Email Address:   <Offeror to complete>


B-2   Pricing Table



      B-2.1 Pricing Table Elements


           The Pricing Table is at Addendum D, Attachment 1.  The following identify elements within  the  Pricing  Table.   The  following  are
           definitions for elements within the Pricing Table.


           (a)   Contract Line Item Number

                 The Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) represents an SSA designated number that identifies each orderable item  in  the  contract.
                 The Contractor agrees that it included any item not specifically identified in Attachment 1,  Pricing  Table,  but  required  in
                 performance of this contract, is included at no additional cost to the Government.

           (b)   Contract Year


                 The Contract Year that the work begins in determines the unit price applicable.  For example, if SSA orders services in Contract
                 Year 1, the maximum price SSA shall pay is the unit price for Contract Year 1, regardless if work extends into another  Contract
                 Year.  SSA anticipates the period of each Contract Year, as follows:


                     • Contract Year 1: September 29, 2012 through September 28, 2013
                     • Contract Year 2: September 29, 2013 through September 28, 2014
                     • Contract Year 3: September 29, 2014 through September 28, 2015
                     • Contract Year 4: September 29, 2015 through September 28, 2016
                     • Contract Year 5: September 29, 2016 through September 28, 2017


      B-2.2 Functional Area 1: Security Assessments


           CLINs RA01 through RA03 represent a Firm-Fixed Price per report for the Contractor to perform Security Assessments on designated  SSA
           Major Information System(s).  Each CLIN includes varying degrees of complexity and time required.  SSA included a  breakdown  of  the
           estimated combined number of work-hours required by Analytical, Senior Analytical, and Subject Matter Expert engineering  labor,  but
           precluding Project Management (see Attachment 4 for definitions of labor categories):


               • RA01 – High Complexity Security Assessment (estimated 1,100 work-hours);
               • RA02 – Medium Complexity Security Assessment (estimated 800 work-hours); and
               • RA03 – Low Complexity Security Assessment (estimated 550 work-hours).

           The Contractor should assume that the work required for each Security Assessment will not exceed 25-percent more than the  number  of
           work-hours estimated above, conditioned upon the Contractor performing the Security Assessment in accordance with this  Contract  and
           where SSA does not require Major Revisions (see Section 3.8).


      B-2.3 Functional Area 2: Penetration Tests


           CLINs PT01 through PT02 represent a Firm-Fixed Price per report for the Contractor to perform penetration  tests  on  designated  SSA
           Major Information System(s).  Each CLIN includes varying degrees of complexity and time required.  SSA included a  breakdown  of  the
           estimated combined number of work-hours required by Analytical, Senior Analytical, and Subject Matter Expert engineering  labor,  but
           precluding Project Management (see Attachment 4 for definitions of labor categories):


               • PT01 – High Complexity Penetration Test (estimated 650 work-hours); and
               • PT02 – Medium Complexity Penetration Test (estimated 500 work-hours).

           The Contractor should assume that the work required for each Penetration Test will not exceed 25-percent more than the number of work-
           hours estimated above, conditioned upon the Contractor performing the Penetration Test in accordance with this Contract and where SSA
           does not require Major Revisions (see Section 3.8).


      B-2.4 Functional Area 3: Policies and Procedures Support


           CLINs LH01 through LH06 represent fully loaded labor rates to assist SSA develop its policies and procedures for IS.  Each year,  SSA
           anticipates to fund a Not to Exceed (NTE) amount for all labor rates based upon the unit prices specified in  Attachment  1,  Pricing
           Table, for Functional Area 3 and 4.  SSA anticipates the following work-breakdown structure for Functional Area 3:

               • LH01 – Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for IS Guidelines – 600 hours;
               • LH02 – Recommendation of Policies/Procedures for Implementation Guidelines – 300 hours;
               • LH03 – Research of IS Issues – 500 hours;
               • LH04 – Provide IS Risk Remediation Recommendations – 900 hours;
               • LH05 – Assist with IS Report Generation – 500 hours; and
               • LH06 – Miscellaneous Support Services relating to IS Policies and Procedures – 200 hours.


      B-2.5 Functional Area 4: Risk Management Framework Support


           CLINs RM01 through RM03 represent fully loaded labor rates to assist SSA understand its exposure to  risk  and  adequately  implement
           controls to prevent vulnerability exploitation.  Each year, SSA anticipates to fund a Not to Exceed (NTE) amount for all labor  rates
           based upon the unit prices specified in Attachment 1, Pricing Table, for Functional Area 3 and 4.  SSA anticipates the following work-
           breakdown structure for Functional Area 4:

               • RM01 – Security Control Implementation Guidelines – 500 hours;
               • RM02 – Risk Assessment Reporting – 200 hours;
               • RM03 – Security Documentation Review – 200 hours;


      B-2.6 Miscellaneous – Travel-Related Expenses


           CLINs TR1 through TR3 represent fixed-price travel-related costs where  a  Security  Assessment/Penetration  Test  requires  frequent
           travel from greater than 50 miles from SSA Headquarters in Baltimore, MD.  For example, a Task Order may indicate that the Contractor
           must perform a Security Assessment at externally hosted data centers  well  outside  of  Maryland.   The  Contractor  shall  consider
           frequent travel less than 50-miles from SSA Headquarters in Baltimore, MD as part of its firm-fixed prices provided under  Functional
           Areas 1 and 2.  SSA estimates that 20-percent of Security Assessments/Penetration Tests will include travel requirements greater than
           50 miles from SSA Headquarters.  The Contractor must provide a fixed-price that includes all travel-related  costs,  including  meals
           and incidental expenses, fares, taxes, parking, hotel, mileage, etc.  The Contracting Officer  will  include  travel-related  funding
           with each Penetration Test/Security Assessment authorized, if applicable, using one, or a combination, of the following:


               • TR1 – Infrequent travel required, not to exceed two visits to sites within major cities (population over 200,000) located in the
                 eastern continental United States, and up to three days at a time.
               • TR2 – Moderate travel required, not to exceed four visits to sites within major cities located in the eastern continental United
                 States, and up to four days at a time.
               • TR3 – Frequent travel required, not to exceed six visits to sites within major cities located in the eastern continental  United
                 States, and up to four days at a time.
               • TR4 – Infrequent travel required, not to exceed two visits to sites within major  cities  located  in  the  western  continental
                 United States, and up to three days at a time.
               • TR5 – Moderate travel required, not to exceed four visits to sites within major cities located in the western continental United
                 States, and up to four days at a time.
               • TR6 – Frequent travel required, not to exceed six visits to sites within major cities located in the western continental  United
                 States, and up to four days at a time.

           Upon the Contracting Officer providing travel-related funding in a Task Order, the Contractor shall obtain written approval from  the
           COR for any travel required.




B-3   Description of Services



      B-3.1 Background



           The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directive requires the Social Security Administration (SSA  to  assess  and  authorize  its
           major information systems.  Part of the authorization work involves IV&V activities.  This entails testing security controls of major
           Informational Technology (IT) systems per Special Publications NIST 800-53 (August 2009) Recommended Security  Controls  for  Federal
           Information Systems and 800-53A (July 2008) Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in  Federal  Information  Systems.   IV&V  also
           entails performing risk assessments per NIST 800-30 (July 2002) Special Publication Risk Management Guide for Information  Technology
           Systems.


           Also, for systems undergoing IV&V Security Assessment and Authorization activities, the required guidelines in NIST 800-60 Guide  for
           Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories  (August  2008)  and  FIPS  199  Standards  for  Security
           Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems (February 2004) should be used to correctly identify/verify the correct
           impact level an exploited vulnerability could have on agency operations, assets, and individuals.  SSA must report the results of the
           assessment and authorization work in the annual Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Report to OMB and Congress at the
           end of each fiscal year.

           OMB has directed Chief Information Officers (CIO’s) of Federal agencies to follow the guidance found in  the  National  Institute  of
           Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-37 revision 1  (February  2010),  Guide  for  Applying  the  Risk  Management
           Framework to Federal Information Systems, to assess and authorize  their  major  IT  systems.   The  Office  of  Systems,  Office  of
           Information Security (OIS) has the overall responsibility to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of  information
           systems and assets.  The Government must meet this obligation in a dynamic environment with  limited  qualified  human  capital  (SSA
           personnel and Contractor) resources.


      B-3.2 Objective


           The Objective of the Government is to procure Contractor expertise in the completion of  Task  Order-specific  information  assurance
           services for SSA major information systems.  This requirement is for IT professional services to  insure  that  SSA  components  have
           implemented adequate safeguards to protect the security and privacy of agency information resources.










           Specific activities shall include:


              a) System Testing and Evaluation


                    1) Independent Verification & Validation (IV&V) security control assessments;


                    2) Risk Assessments; and

                    3) Penetration Testing services.


              b) Establish and Apply Information Assurance Policies and Procedures

              c) Recommend Risk Management Framework Support Services


           These activities focus on ensuring SSA complies with Federal IS regulations, guidance, and  agency  policies.   These  services  will
           mainly support SSA’s Office of Systems, Office of Information Security (OIS); however,  other  SSA  programmatic  offices  may  order
           services in support of OIS-sponsored security assessment activities.

           The Contractor shall be responsible for all  program  management,  technical,  and  administrative  support  for  this  effort.   The
           Contractor shall provide support and technical expertise in a broad range of information security areas under this contract.


      B-3.3 Security Assessment Requirements


           The Contractor must perform IV&V and Risk Assessment Security Authorization support for SSA’s major IT systems.  SSA currently  lists
           twenty-two (22) systems in its inventory (see Attachment 2 – List of Major Systems).  However,  the  inventory  is  dynamic  and  SSA
           reserves the right to revise this list as it develops new systems to support agency functions  or  retires  no  longer  needed  Major
           Systems.  The Contractor must provide Security Authorization support activities for any or all of SSA’s Major Systems.  SSA’s  intent
           is for the Contractor to conduct scheduled tri-annual assessments;  respond  to  significant  IT  system  and  operating  environment
           changes; and conduct random testing and assessment in response to security incidents involving SSA systems as designated in the  Task
           Order.


      B-3.4 Penetration Test Requirements


           The Contractor must perform Risk Assessments/Penetration Tests to test the adequacy and effectiveness of  security  control  measures
           put in place to protect the security and integrity of sensitive information technology (IT) systems,  data,  and  network  resources.
           The specific tasks will focus on the security of critical agency priorities, such as the MySSA user identification and authentication
           application.  SSA will identify the specific tasks applicable upon purchasing a Penetration Test in the  Rules  of  Engagement  (ROE)
           (see Section 3.10).  SSA will utilize the assessment/test results to identify risks and vulnerabilities in agency IT applications and
           evaluate the effectiveness of policy and technical controls in regards to SSA’s  use  of  targeted  applications.   The  agency  will
           provide this resulting information to SSA senior management and engineers to allow them  to  correct  or  mitigate  deficiencies  and
           increase overall system security.


           The Contractor shall follow common vulnerability assessment  and  penetration  methodologies  to  ensure  consistent  and  repeatable
           evaluations.  The methodologies used must include the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication  (SP)
           800-115, Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSSTMM) and Open Web Application Security Project  (OWASP)  testing  guide.
           Specifically, the methodology employed by the Contractor must include adversarial system/infrastructure testing and analysis, such as
           penetration testing, from off-site and /or on-site at SSA facilities while preserving SSA’s security and using resources efficiently.
            Criticality and sensitivity of data associated with penetration test activity may necessitate on-site performance by the  Contractor
           to enable close monitoring by SSA personnel.  The Contractor must perform these activities in accordance with a ROE prepared  by  the
           Contractor, and approved by the COR.


      B-3.5 Information Assurance Policies and Procedures Support



           As part of Information Assurance, the Contractor must provide the following services:


               • Assist in establishing OIS procedures (and reusable working papers) for security  testing  &  evaluation,  penetration  testing,
                 incident response, security detection tools, advanced persistent threat monitoring, and risk assessments;
               • Provide consultative guidance, support, and assistance/instruction in identifying how security testing & evaluation, penetration
                 testing, incident response, security detection tools/techniques, advanced persistent threat monitoring,  risk  assessments,  and
                 various security management tools (and outputs) can be integrated with SSA’s continuous monitoring capabilities;
               • Accommodate requests for SSA and US Government information security policy interpretation and guidance;
               • Accommodate requests for guidance on information security industry best practices;
               • Conduct research on assorted information security issues, and make recommendations as appropriate or required in accordance with
                 SSA policy and OIS procedures.
               • Provide maintenance and update support for remediation activities associated with SSA information resources;
               • Prepare or assist in developing annual, quarterly, and monthly reports required by higher monitoring authorities including  OMB,
                 DHS, and US-CERT;


      B-3.6 Risk Management Framework Requirements


           The Contractor must perform risk management framework support services for any of SSA’s major IT systems,  currently  represented  as
           twenty-two (22) systems in its IT inventory.  However, the inventory is dynamic and SSA reserves the right to revise this list as  it
           develops new systems to support agency functions or retires no longer  needed  Major  Systems.   The  Contractor  must  provide  Risk
           Management Framework support activities for any or all of SSA’s Major Systems.


           The Contractor shall perform the following risk management framework support services:

               • Control Family Implementation Guidance
               • Risk Assessments
               • Information Security Documentation Review

              a) Control Family Implementation Guidance:


                 The contractor shall provide guidance to SSA Task Manager indicated in each Task  Order  regarding  implementation  of  security
                 controls that satisfy Federal information security requirements.  The Contractor shall:


                     • Explain security control implementation  methodologies  to  the  Task  Manager,  including  the  guidelines  explained  in
                       applicable NIST Special Publications, such as NIST SP 800 series guidance.


                     • Offer guidance to SSA Task Managers that makes use of the most current SSA templates available to facilitate system  owner
                       security control implementations.

                     • Offer security control implementation guidance on the agency’s major information systems to Task Managers  on  an  ad  hoc
                       basis as questions arise during the course of the period of performance.

              b) Risk Assessments:


                 In addition to Security Assessments provided under Functional Area 1, the Contractor shall perform and document risk assessments
                 on an ad hoc basis for IT systems at various stages of development, or requiring post-implementation risk assessment.  This will
                 further ensure the security of SSA’s information systems and the information they handle, while  also  demonstrating  compliance
                 with Federal regulations, directives, and agency policies.

                 Risk Assessment activities to be performed by the contractor include delivering Risk Assessment Reports which:


                     • Recommend the selection and implementation methodology for security controls to satisfy risk management requirements based
                       on system security categorization.

                     • Recommend security control tailoring to address risk factors such as aggregated risk and criticality to agency mission.

                     • Document Risk Determinations as a function of the likelihood of a given threat source exercising  a  particular  potential
                       vulnerability, and the resulting impact of that adverse event on the organization.


                 The Contractor shall employ the standard risk  assessment  methodology  outlined  by  NIST  800-30  Risk  Management  Guide  for
                 Information Technology Systems.  The Risk Assessment  Report  explains  the  identified  risks,  based  on  threat/vulnerability
                 pairings, and recommended corrective measures aimed at reducing or eliminating the security risks.  The systems  requiring  this
                 attention will be identified during post-award  application  portfolio  management  discussions.   The  Contractor  must  attend
                 application portfolio management discussions with the COR or other individuals identified in the Task Order on  a  weekly  basis
                 unless specified otherwise in a Task Order.  These discussions  will  include  an  overview  of  current  security  assessments,
                 penetration tests, and other work on-going by the Contractor or planned under the contract.


              c) Information Security Documentation Reviews:


                 The Contractor shall also be available to  review  System  Owner-prepared  Interconnection  Security  Agreements  and  component
                 developed security documentation when the need materializes during the course of the  period  of  performance.   The  Contractor
                 review of security documentation will ensure it addresses agency  security  requirements  in  support  of  the  SSA  information
                 security management program.


                 SSA will identify the IT systems that will require the services described above for  this  task  during  post-award  application
                 portfolio management discussions.





      B-3.7 Deliverables



           The Contractor must submit all reports or other written deliverables in the format and media specified in the Task  Order.   For  all
           deliverables, the Contractor shall implement effective document management by including version control and comment  resolution  such
           that each release has clear inventory of comments that were accepted / rejected as part of the version.


           The Contractor must make all deliverables available at the place and time and to the COR and Task Manager defined in the  Task  Order
           for each Security Assessment/Penetration Test.  The Contractor must  provide  deliverables  within  the  following  timeframes  after
           receipt of a Task Order (ARO) unless specified otherwise in the Task Order:


               • High Complexity Security Assessments – 180 days ARO;
               • Medium Complexity Security Assessments – 120 days ARO;
               • Low Complexity Security Assessments – 60 days ARO;
               • High Complexity Penetration Test – 120 days ARO; and
               • Low Complexity Penetration Test – 90 days ARO.

           All work papers and deliverables produced by the Contractor for this Contract are the property of SSA.  Moreover, the Contractor must
           consider all reports and other documents produced under this Contract as sensitive but unclassified  (SBU)  special  works  (see  FAR
           52.227-17, Rights in Data–Special Works) and must appropriately protect those reports and documents, unless otherwise  designated  in
           the Task Order/ROE for each Security Assessment/Penetration Test,  respectively.   SSA  defines  appropriately  protect  reports  and
           documents as the following:


           The Contractor must not release to anyone outside the Contractor’s organization any unclassified information,  regardless  of  medium
           (e.g., film, tape, document) pertaining to any part of this contract or any program related to this contract, unless –


              1) The Contracting Officer has given prior written approval.  The Contractor agrees  to  include  a  similar  requirement  in  each
                 subcontract under this Contract.  Subcontracts shall submit requests for authorization to release through the  prime  contractor
                 to the Contracting Officer; or


              2) The information is otherwise in the public domain before the date of release.

           The Contractor must submit all deliverables in an accessible format (see Addendum B, Section 3.12).




      B-3.8 Acceptance


           After receipt of deliverables, the COR or Task Manager (as specified in the Task Order) will have the  right  to  reject  or  require
           correction of any deficiencies found in deliverables within the timeframe specified in the Task Order (may range from 7 to 14  days).
           In the event of rejection of a deliverable, the COR will notify the  Contractor  in  writing  as  to  the  specific  reason  why  the
           deliverable is being rejected.  Deficiencies (major or minor) include:


               • Major Revisions include content additions and deletions, substantial reorganization of report contents including moving material
                 into appendices and attachments, adding explanatory charts and figures, replacing several paragraphs that the Contractor  poorly
                 worded or may be misread, and similar corrections.  The Contractor must correct Major Revisions within  a  specified  number  of
                 working days of notice by the Government, as defined in the Task Order.


               • SSA considers Minor Revisions as essentially editorial and may request  these  changes  orally.   They  include  such  items  as
                 typographic errors, formatting (e.g. failure to use an appropriate table of contents, lack of page numbers and  dates,  graphics
                 too small to be readable), poor writing style and similar.  The Contractor must correct Minor Revisions within five working days
                 of notice by the Government.

              a) For all four Functional Areas, SSA will accept deliverables that are:


                     • Submitted in the Task Order prescribed format and media;
                     • Demonstrating version control and comment resolution;
                     • Made available to the COR at defined time and place designated in the Task Order;
                     • Appropriately protected, based on data sensitivity, as defined in the Task Order;
                     • Able to address identified deficiencies, including requested major and  minor  revisions,  delivered  within  a  specified
                       number of workdays as defined in Task Order.


              b) In addition to (a) above, SSA will provide acceptance for Security Assessments based on the deliverable report:


                     • Addressing all applicable Federal security control requirements as defined in  OMB  and  NIST  published  regulations  and
                       guidance, cognizant of agency tailoring to address agency specific policies, procedures, and awareness of  known  security
                       threats and vulnerabilities.
                     • Assessing the correct control set based on established IT system security categorization and agency tailoring,  evaluating
                       control implementation status using prescribed assessment criteria as defined in OMB and NIST published guidance.
                     • Reporting on associated risks to system security as defined in OMB and NIST published regulations and guidance.


              c) In addition to (a) above, SSA will provide acceptance for Penetration Tests based on the deliverable report:


                     • Identifying all risks and vulnerabilities in agency IT applications;
                     • Explaining effectiveness of policy and technical controls in regards to SSA’s targeted applications.
                     • Complying with common  vulnerability  assessment  and  penetration  methodologies  to  ensure  consistent  and  repeatable
                       evaluations.  Methodologies used should have included the National Institute of Standards and  Technology  (NIST)  Special
                       Publication (SP) 800-115, Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual  (OSSTMM)  and  Open  Web  Application  Security
                       Project (OWASP) testing guide.
                     • Adhering to ROE prepared by the Contractor, and approved by COR.


              d) In addition to (a) above, SSA will provide acceptance of Information Assurance policies and procedures based on deliverables:


                     • Recommending information assurance procedures applicable to SSA’s  environment  and  reusable  for  purposes  of  security
                       testing & evaluation, penetration testing, incident response, the use of security  detection  tools,  advanced  persistent
                       threat monitoring, and risk assessments.
                     • Offering consultative guidance, support, and assistance/instruction in identifying how SSA can integrate security  testing
                       & evaluation, penetration testing, incident response, security  detection  tools/techniques,  advanced  persistent  threat
                       monitoring, risk assessments, and various security  management  tools  (and  outputs)  with  SSA’s  continuous  monitoring
                       capabilities.
                     • Relating to SSA and U.S. Government information security policy interpretation and guidance have practical application  to
                       the SSA operating environment.
                     • Providing beneficial guidance on information security industry best practices.
                     • Usefulness of  Contractor  recommended  remediation  activities  associated  with  SSA  information  resources  identified
                       vulnerabilities.
                     • Providing helpful suggestions are made by the Contractor related to annual, quarterly, and  monthly  reports  required  by
                       higher monitoring authorities including OMB, DHS, and US-CERT.

              e) Risk Management Framework Support Services related performance quality shall be based on deliverables:


                     • Recommending control implementation guidance is applicable to SSA’s environment and  reusable  for  purposes  of  security
                       assessments, risk assessments, penetration testing, and incident response.
                     • Ensuring control implementation and risk assessment guidance offered by the Contractor makes use of current SSA assessment
                       related templates.
                     • Ensuring control implementation and risk assessment methodology guidance offered by the Contractor is  in  agreement  with
                       the requirements of NIST SP 800 series guidelines and integrable with SSA’s continuous monitoring capabilities.
                     • Providing beneficial control implementation and risk assessment guidance consistent  with  information  security  industry
                       best practices.
                     • Ensuring control implementation and risk assessment guidance provided by the Contractor  improves  the  quality  of  SSA’s
                       annual, quarterly, and monthly reports required by higher monitoring authorities including OMB, DHS, and US-CERT.


      B-3.9 Assumptions


           The Contractor must provide services controlled by means of specific objectives, deliverables, and constraints specified  within  the
           Task Order and ROE (when applicable for Penetration Tests) for services purchased, and the following terms and conditions:


               • The Contractor technical personnel must address and assist  with  information  to  help  resolve  any  major  and  minor  issues
                 identified during performance of security assessments or penetration tests or during deliverable review.
               • SSA made its best efforts to estimate the resource requirements.  The work required within  this  Contract  is  an  estimate  of
                 resource requirements and is not a guarantee.
               • Technical staff within SSA will be readily available for consulting throughout the project.
               • SSA will review all deliverables and provide comments to the Contractor within the timeframe specified in the  Task  Order  (may
                 range from 7 to 14 days) to enable Contractor’s incorporating of any changes prior to the scheduled delivery date.
               • During normal business hours, SSA will provide space for on-site conferences/meetings between SSA personnel and  the  Contractor
                 Support Services team(s) to facilitate performance of the contract.  If required, SSA will provide computer equipment and office
                 software normally used by SSA for the purpose of work performed by the Contractor.  SSA will provision and coordinate Government
                 Furnished Equipment (GFP) on an as required basis (see Addendum C, Section 6.10).
               • SSA will provide or make available information and documentation relevant to the specified  tasks  as  appropriate.   Furnishing
                 Government information or access to Government systems may require Contractor personnel  to  sign  confidentiality  and/or  non-
                 disclosure agreements.  The provisioning and coordination of Government Furnished Equipment, Workspace, and Information  is  the
                 responsibility of the COR.
               • Other than general office support equipment and software noted above, the Contractor must ensure that it has all the  equipment,
                 software and tools routinely used in industry to accomplish the contract objectives.
               • Performance of the Functional Areas under this Contract will be at SSA’s facility, Contractor’s facility, or  a  combination  of
                 both.
               • The Contractor must establish ROE at the Task Order level for Penetration Tests.  The Task Order will  identify  the  ROE  as  a
                 deliverable that the COR must approve prior to work being started (see Section 3.10).
               • SSA will reimburse the Contractor for limited travel visits (see Section 2.6).  SSA may require that the Contractor make  travel
                 visits to visit externally hosted system locations to assess and test deployed security controls.  SSA will specify at the  Task
                 Order level the estimated volume of specific travel and probable destinations.
               • Unless otherwise specified in a payment schedule within the Task Order, the Contractor will only bill for items accepted by  the
                 COR.
               • All Contractor personnel must possess Federal security clearance level 6c, High Risk – Public Trust.


      B-3.10      Rules of Engagement


           The Contractor must prepare a ROE document for all scheduled Penetration Tests within 45 days of a) receipt of a Task  Order;  or  b)
           identification of specific Penetration Test requirements during post-award application portfolio management  discussions.   Each  ROE
           must contain the applicable sections identified within Attachment 3 at Addendum D, Section 3.0.  The COR will accept  or  reject  the
           ROE within 14 days of delivery by the Contractor.


      B-3.11      Key Personnel


           The Contractor shall not substitute key personnel under this contract unless approved in writing by the COR.  The COR will approve
           all substitutions, in writing, for individuals defined as key personnel under this contract.  Any substitutions are subject to the
           terms and conditions of this clause.






           SSA identifies Key Personnel as follows:


               • Project Manager
               • Penetration Test Manager


           Key Personnel must meet the qualification and experience levels specified under Attachment 4 definitions, as follows:


               • Project Management must meet the Project Manager qualifications; and
               • Penetration Test Manager must meet the Subject Matter Expert qualifications.


              a) Approval of Key Personnel


                 The COR will review all resumes for Contractor personnel identified as key personnel  to  ensure  conformance  to  the  contract
                 requirements.


              b) Removal of Key Personnel


                 During the first year of performance, no key personnel substitutions can occur unless an  individual's  sudden  illness,  death,
                 disciplinary action, demotion, promotion, or termination of employment necessitates such substitutions.  In any of these events,
                 the Contractor must notify the SSA Task Manager and COR within five days, in writing.


              c) Substitution Process


                 After the first 180 days of performance, the Contractor must provide at least 30 days advance notice for all  substitutions  and
                 additions of key personnel.


      B-3.12      Reports


              a) Technical Progress Report


                 Each month, the Contractor must submit to the COR, a report that identifies by task, the following information:


                     • The accomplished work;
                     • Description of work;
                     • Milestone dates;
                     • Current status;
                     • Requestor;
                     • Assigned technician;
                     • Comment;
                     • Problems encountered;

              b) Security Screening Report


                 The Contractor must maintain an electronic file of all cleared employees and Subcontractor employees working  on  this  contract
                 and provide the COR  with  copies  on  a  monthly  basis.   This  report  must  include  all  personnel  (Prime  Contractor  and
                 Subcontractors) who need access to an SSA facility, site, system, or information during  performance  of  this  contract.   When
                 requiring inside access, the Contractor personnel will need to have a security screening performed, as indicated in Addendum  C,
                 Section 6.1, Security Requirements Clause.


                 The report must include the following:


                     • Employee name
                     • Employee SSN
                     • Employee Phone Number
                     • Employee Email Address
                     • Status of screening (i.e. Pending [Contracting submitted suitability paperwork to SSA Suitability  Office]);  Pre-Approved
                       ([determination made by SSA Suitability Office]; Denied [determination made by SSA Suitability Office];
                     •  Security Awareness Training Date (required on an annual basis)

                 For the security screening report, the Contractor must use compress and encrypt the report  using  256-Bit  Advanced  Encryption
                 Standard (AES) encryption method or higher.  The  file  name  of  the  report  should  be  “Security  Screening  Report  [Month]
                 [Year].zip,” where [Month] and [Year] change based on when the report is due. The Contractor shall provide the encryption key to
                 the COR via telephone with one-business day of submitting the report.

           Documentation in Accessible Formats


           The Contractor must provide any form of documentation (i.e. training manual, user guides, embedded  documents  etc.),  including  any
           documentation deliverables required in the statement of work, in a fully accessible format. 


           Therefore, the Contractor must provide the documents in one of the following formats:  Text, Rich Text Format (RTF),  Microsoft  Word
           or Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) format, or properly “tagged” Portable Document Format (PDF).   SSA  can  verify  properly  tagged
           PDF’s by using Adobe Acrobat’s Accessibility Checker.


           The Contractor must ensure that documentation delivered in a manner that is interactive (e.g.,  table  of  contents,  Index,  Search,
           etc.) is keyboard navigable, move focus to selected items (or have a keyboard alternative) and be comparable in  keyboard  access  to
           mouse usage.  All images (especially screenshots and technical diagrams (which are the sole means for conveying instructions)  should
           include alternative text explaining the image so that a person who is blind would understand  the  screenshot,  chart,  figure,  etc.
           Documentation shall include information on the accessibility features of the product.  If the Contractor provides keyboard  shortcuts
           to allow access to program functionality, it shall provide a list of the keyboard shortcuts.


           Any documentation that the Contractor delivers in a video or multimedia publication must comply with  the  Section  508  requirements
           detailed in 36 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) part 1194.24 and the functional performance criteria detailed in 36 CFR 1194 Subpart
           C.  In addition, SSA requires conformance to SSA’s accessibility requirements for all video and multi-media deliverables.   SSA  does
           not accept text equivalents used to replace speech, and requires captions synchronized with speech.


      B-3.13      Quality Control Plan


           The Contractor must develop and maintain a Quality Control Plan to ensure that it performs IV&V services in accordance with the terms
           and conditions of the contract.  The Contractor must develop and implement procedures to identify and prevent defective service  from
           occurring.  At a minimum, the Contractor must develop quality control procedures that address the following areas:


               • An inspection system that enables the Contractor to identify and correct deficiencies in the quality of service before the level
                 of performance becomes unacceptable and/or the Government points out the deficiencies.


               • A checklist for the Contractor to use in inspections.  The checklist must include every  area  of  the  Contractor’s  operations
                 under the contract, as well as all tasks performed.


               • Procedures for documenting and responding to Task Orders.


               • A file of all inspections conducted by the Contractor, including  records  of  corrective  actions  taken  as  result  of  these
                 inspections.


           The Contractor must prepare the written Quality Control Plan no later than 30-days after the effective  date  of  the  contract,  and
           provide this document to the COR and CO for review and comment.  Moreover, the Contractor must make its written Quality Control  Plan
           available for the COR to review and monitor anytime during the term of the contract.




      B-3.14      Acceptable Quality Levels


           This table specifies the standard for satisfactory performance of the tasks specified in this Addendum:


            • Quality
            • Timeliness
            • Customer Satisfaction


           SSA will measure Acceptable Quality Levels on an annual basis, at a minimum.  SSA will include results of its performance  monitoring
           in its Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting (see Addendum C, Section 6.7).  Failure  by  the  Contractor  to  meet  Acceptable
           Quality Levels, or any other contract requirement, will be grounds for the Government to terminate this contract for cause.


           As part of Quality Control, the Contractor must maintain an acceptable quality  level  for  each  task.   SSA  considers  controlling
           quality of Contractor-produced products as part of the ongoing responsibility of the Contractor.


           NOTE: The remainder of this page is blank.  See next page for Performance Standards and Acceptable Quality Levels.

|Task                |Performance Standard                                    |Acceptable Quality Level                                            |
|                    |                                                        |                                                                    |
|                    |                                                        |                                                                    |
|                    |                                                        |80-percent of contract deliverables submitted without Major         |
|                    |                                                        |Revisions.                                                          |
|                    |                                                        |                                                                    |
|                    |Contractor’s deliverables met contract requirements and |90-percent of Major Revisions corrected deficiencies identified by  |
|                    |objectives.                                             |SSA.                                                                |
|Quality             |                                                        |                                                                    |
|                    |Contractor’s deliverables met formatting and media      |90-percent of contract deliverables submitted for Functional Area 3 |
|                    |requirements.                                           |met quality requirements specified for that work.                   |
|                    |                                                        |                                                                    |
|                    |                                                        |90-percent of contract deliverables submitted for Functional Area 4 |
|                    |                                                        |met quality requirements specified for that work.                   |

|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |80-percent of all deliverables submitted timely.                     |
|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |100-percent of all non-timely deliverables submitted by new date     |
|                    |Contractor submitted deliverables at defined time and  |mutually agreed to in writing by the Contractor and the Contracting  |
|                    |place, as defined in the Task Order and ROE (when      |Officer.                                                             |
|                    |applicable).                                           |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |80-percent of Major Revisions and Minor Revision corrected by date   |
|                    |Contractor corrected Major Revisions timely.           |and time specified in the Task Order and ROE (when applicable).      |
|Timeliness          |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |Contractor corrected Minor Revisions timely.           |90-percent of Major Revisions and Minor Revisions not submitted      |
|                    |                                                       |timely corrected by no later than 15-days after the original due     |
|                    |Contractor submitted responses to RFTOPs timely.       |date, or a greater time as otherwise specified in writing by the COR |
|                    |                                                       |or Task Manager.                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |80-percent of proposals submitted within 15 days of receipt of a     |
|                    |                                                       |RFTOP.                                                               |

|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |Working relationship between customer organization and |                                                                     |
|                    |Contractor is positive.                                |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |Contractor’s performance met contractual requirements, |                                                                     |
|                    |Contractor provided effective communication and        |                                                                     |
|                    |facilitated task meetings with customer organization to|                                                                     |
|                    |incorporate feedback into deliverables, ensure tasks   |                                                                     |
|                    |remain on schedule, and met contractual milestones.    |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |
|                    |Contractor regularly interacted with customer          |                                                                     |
|Customer            |organization to identify issues and raise awareness of |                                                                     |
|Satisfaction        |task status, including the Contractor collaborating    |                                                                     |
|                    |with customer organization, providing solutions to     |                                                                     |
|                    |resolve issues that threaten to negatively affect the  |80-percent of customer satisfaction surveys submitted by the COR,    |
|                    |tasks.                                                 |end-users, or Task Manager, after completion of work under any       |
|                    |                                                       |Functional Area, return with an overall Contractor performance       |
|                    |Contractor recommended and demonstrated ability to     |satisfaction level of “GOOD” or higher.                              |
|                    |apply improvements to the customer’s information       |                                                                     |
|                    |security program that elevate the level of implemented |                                                                     |
|                    |security controls, thereby improving confidentiality,  |                                                                     |
|                    |integrity, and availability assurances.                |                                                                     |
|                    |                                                       |                                                                     |


Addendum C – Contract Clauses



C-1   FAR Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Feb 2012)


      In accordance with FAR 12.301 and 12.302, this contract incorporates FAR Clause 52.212-4 by reference via Block 27 of the SF 1449.


C-2   Addendum to FAR Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Feb 2012)


         • SSA supplemented Paragraph (g), Invoice, as follows:


           C-2.1 AS 3201 – Invoice Submission and Payment Related Information (Dec 2011)


           The invoice shall include all elements of a proper invoice as defined in the invoice or payment clause used in  this  award  and  any
           other information required below or in any other contract clause.  To assist the Government in making timely  payments,  include  the
           Contractor’s Taxpayers Identification Number, Data Universal Numbering System number, contract, and the Order Number, if any, on each
           invoice.


           Facsimile (Fax) communication is the preferred method of submission for invoices and public vouchers, because  the  invoice  will  be
           received directly into the SSA payment system.  If the invoice cannot be faxed, submit it electronically via email, by regular  mail,
           or by hand carrying it to the Office of Finance at the address below.


           If submitting by fax, use any one of the following fax numbers:


                 410 965-8209
                 410 965-8251
                 410 965-8200
                 410 965-8216
                 410 966-5425
                 410 966-9940
                 410 965-3734
                 410 965-7533


           If submitting electronically:


           Submit the invoice either as an attachment to an email message, or within the message itself, to:  OTAPS.DAPS.Invoices@ssa.gov.


           If sent by mail, submit an original and three (3) copies of the invoice to:


                 Social Security Administration
                 Office of Finance
                 Post Office Box 47
                 Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047


           If hand carried, deliver to:


                 Social Security Administration
                 Office of Finance
                 Customer Service Help Desk
                 2-B-4 East Low Rise Building
                 6401 Security Boulevard
                 Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047


           The telephone number of the finance customer service help desk is (410) 965-0607.


           The Government will make payment to the Contractor using the Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) information  contained  in  the  Central
           Contractor Registration (CCR) database.  In the event that the EFT information changes,  the  Contractor  shall  be  responsible  for
           providing the updated information to the CCR database.  The EFT information submitted must be that of the Contractor unless there  is
           an official Assignment of Claims on file with the Office of Finance.


           Remittance information associated with EFT payments is available via the  Internet  Payment  Platform  (IPP)  on  the  Department  of
           Treasury’s Internet site at http://www.ipp.gov.


           The Contractor may also direct payment inquiries to SSA's Office of Finance by:


               • Using its Financial Interactive Voice Response System (FIVR).  FIVR is an automated self-service telephone system  available  24
                 hours a day that allows direct electronic access  to  administrative  payment  information  using  the  telephone  keypad.   The
                 Contractor can access  FIVR  by  calling  (410)  965-0607.   The  services  available  through  FIVR  are  available  through  a
                 Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) Line at 410-597-1395.  Customer Service Representatives will be available to answer
                 Offeror payment inquiries Monday - Friday, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time.


               •    By    sending     an     email     to     payment.inquiries@ssa.gov,     or     visiting     the     internet     site     at
                 http://www.socialsecurity.gov/Offeror/contact.htm.  The Contractor can also access the IPP system through a link on this site.



C-3   52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (May 2012)


      (a)   The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this  contract
           by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:


           (1)   52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).


                 ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).


           (2)   52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).


           (3)   52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).


      (b)   The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in  this  paragraph  (b)  that  the  Contracting  Officer  has  indicated  as  being
           incorporated in this contract by reference to implement  provisions  of  law  or  Executive  orders  applicable  to  acquisitions  of
           commercial items:


            x  (1)     52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C.  253g
                 and 10 U.S.C. 2402).


            x  (2)     52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251
                 note)).


            x  (3)     52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010)  (Section  1553
                 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)


            x  (4)     52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub.  L.  109-282)  (31  U.S.C.
                 6101 note).


            x  (5)     52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).


            x  (6)     52.209-6, Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed  for
                 Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).


            x  (7)     52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313).


           __ (8)      52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012)(section 740 of Division C of Pub. L.
                 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161).


           __ (9)      52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a).


           __ (10)     52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects  to
                 waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).


           __ (11)     [Reserved]


           __ (12)     (i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644).


                 __ (ii)     Alternate I (Nov 2011).


                 __ (iii)    Alternate II (Nov 2011).


           __ (13)     (i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).


                 __ (ii)     Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.


                 __ (iii)    Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.


            x  (14)    52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).


           __ (15)     (i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).


                 __ (ii)     Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.


                 __ (iii)    Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.


                 __ (iv)     Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9.


           __ (16)     52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)).


            x  (17)    52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).


           __ (18)     52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).


           __ (19)     (i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns  (Oct  2008)  (10  U.S.C.
                 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).


                 __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.


           __ (20)     52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-
                 355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).


           __ (21)     52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting  (Oct  2000)  (Pub.  L.  103-355,
                 section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).


           __ (22)     52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).


            x  (23)    52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).


           __ (24)     52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15
                 U.S.C. 637(m)).


           __ (25)     52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr  2012)
                 (15 U.S.C. 637(m)).


            x  (26)    52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).


           __ (27)     52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126).


            x  (28)    52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).


            x  (29)    52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).


            x  (30)    52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).


            x  (31)    52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).


            x  (32)    52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).


            x  (33)    52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496).


            x  (34)    52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
                 commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)


           __ (35)     (i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content  for  EPA–Designated  Items  (May  2008)  (42  U.S.C.
                 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)


                 __ (ii)     Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to  the  acquisition  of  commercially
                 available off-the-shelf items.)


           __ (36)     52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).


           __ (37)     (i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment  of  Personal  Computer  Products  (Dec  2007)  (E.O.
                 13423).


           __ (ii)     Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.


            x  (38)    52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513).


           __ (39)     52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).


           __ (40)     (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19  U.S.C.  3301
                 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286,  108-302,
                 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, and Pub. L. 112-41).


                 __ (ii)     Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3.


                 __ (iii)    Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3.


                 __ (iv)     Alternate III (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3.


           __ (41)     52.225-5, Trade Agreements (May 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).


            x  (42)    52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the
                 Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).


           __ (43)     52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).


           __ (44)     52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).


           __ (45)     52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).


           __ (46)     52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).


            x  (47)    52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).


           __ (48)     52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).


           __ (49)     52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).


            x  (50)    52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).


           __ (51)     (i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx.  1241(b)  and  10
                 U.S.C. 2631).


                 __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.


      (c)   The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable  to  commercial  services,  that  the  Contracting
           Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by  reference  to  implement  provisions  of  law  or  Executive  orders
           applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

           __ (1)      52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


           __ (2)      52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


           __ (3)      52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option  Contracts)  (Sep
                 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


           __ (4)      52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.  206  and  41  U.S.C.
                 351, et seq.).


           __ (5)      52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of
                 Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).


            x  (6)     52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts  for  Certain  Services—Requirements  (Feb
                 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


           __ (7)      52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).


           __ (8)      52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).


      (d)   Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
           awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-
           2, Audit and Records—Negotiation.


           (1)   The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access  to
                 and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.


           (2)   The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the  records,  materials,  and  other  evidence  for
                 examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter  period  specified
                 in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract.  If  this  contract  is  completely  or
                 partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting  final
                 termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to  litigation  or  the  settlement  of  claims
                 arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available  until  such  appeals,  litigation,  or  claims  are  finally
                 resolved.


           (3)   As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other  data,  regardless  of
                 type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does  not
                 maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.


              a) (1)   Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not
                 required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for  commercial  items.  Unless
                 otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—


                 (i)   52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C.  251
                       note)).


                 (ii)  52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that  offer
                       further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000
                       ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts
                       that offer subcontracting opportunities.


                 (iii)       [Reserved]


                 (iv)  52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).


                 (v)   52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).


                 (vi)  52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).


                 (vii)       52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down
                       required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.


                 (viii)      52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


                 (ix)  52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).


                       ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).


                 (x)   52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair  of
                       Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


                 (xi)  52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to  Contracts  for  Certain  Services-Requirements  (Feb
                       2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).


                 (xii)       52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).


                 (xiii)      52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required
                       in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.


                 (xiv)       52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx.  1241(b)  and  10
                       U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.


           (2)   While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional  clauses
                 necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.


C-4   Additional FAR Clauses Incorporated by Reference


      52.252-2 – Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)

      This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they  were  given  in  full  text.   Upon
      request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be  accessed  electronically  at
      this address:

      http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html

         • 52.202-1 – Definitions (Jul 2004)
         • 52.203-3 – Gratuities (Apr 1984)
         • 52.203-16 – Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest (Dec 2011)
         • 52.204-9 – Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sep 2007)
         • 52.227-17 – Rights in Data—Special Works (Dec 2007)
         • 52.228-5 – Insurance – Work on a Government Installation (Jan 1997)
         • 52.232-18 – Availability of Funds (Apr 1984)
         • 52.233-4 – Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004)
         • 52.237-2 – Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (Apr 1984)
         • 52.245-1 – Government Property (Jun 2007)
         • 52.245-9 – Use and Charges (Jun 2007)


C-5   Additional FAR Clauses Incorporated by Full Text


      SSA incorporated the following FAR clauses by full text into this contract:

      C-5.1 52.216-18 – Ordering (Oct 1995)


           (a)   Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by
                 the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule.  Such orders may be issued from effective date of the contract through
                 the end date specified in the base contract, or any subsequent modifications, whichever is later.


           (b)   All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract.  In the event of conflict  between
                 a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.


           (c)   If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered “issued” when the Government deposits the order in  the  mail.   Orders
                 may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule.


      C-5.2 52.216-19 – Order Limitations (Oct 1995)


           (a)   Minimum order


                 When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an  order  amount  of  less  than  $3,000.00,  the
                 Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to  furnish,  those  supplies  or  services  under  the
                 contract.

           (b)   Maximum order


                 The Contractor is not obligated to honor any order for a combination of items  in  excess  of  $2,500,000.00  over  each  annual
                 contract period;

           (c)   Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations  in
                 paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within five days after  issuance,  with  written
                 notice stating the Contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons.  Upon receiving this  notice,
                 the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.


      C-5.3 52.216-22 – Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995)


           (a)   This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the  period  stated,  in  the
                 Schedule.  The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not  purchased  by  this
                 contract.


           (b)   Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by  orders  issued  in  accordance  with  the  Ordering  clause.   The
                 Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule  up  to  and
                 including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the “maximum.”  The  Government  shall  order  at  least  the  quantity  of
                 supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the “minimum.”


           (c)   Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of
                 orders that may be issued.  The Government may issue orders requiring  delivery  to  multiple  destinations  or  performance  at
                 multiple locations.


           (d)   Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be  completed  by  the
                 Contractor within the time specified in the order.  The contract shall govern  the  Contractor’s  and  Government’s  rights  and
                 obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period;
                 provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after contract expiration.


      C-5.4 52.217-8 – Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)


           The Government may require continued performance of any service within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.   These
           rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates  provided  by  the  Secretary  of  Labor.   The  option
           provision may be exercised more than once, but the total  extension  of  performance  hereunder  shall  not  exceed  6  months.   The
           Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days prior to the expiration of the Order.


      C-5.5 52.232.19 – Availability of Funds for the Next Fiscal Year (Apr 1984)


           Funds are not presently available for performance under this contract beyond September 30, 2012.   The  Government’s  obligation  for
           performance of this contract beyond that date is contingent upon the availability  of  appropriated  funds  from  which  payment  for
           contract purposes can be made.  No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise for performance under this
           contract beyond September 30, 2012, until funds are made  available  to  the  Contracting  Officer  for  performance  and  until  the
           Contractor receives notice of availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.


C-6   Additional Agency Specific Terms and Conditions



      SSA incorporated the following agency-specific terms and conditions by full text into this contract:



      C-6.1 AS 0401 – Security and Suitability Requirements (Jun 2011)


              a) Acronyms and Definitions


                 Access to a facility, site, system, or information means physical access to any Social Security Administration (SSA) facility or
                 site, logical access to any SSA information system, or access to programmatic or sensitive information.


                 CO - Contracting Officer


                 Contractor – In this clause, this term means any entity that has a relationship with SSA because of this  contract.   This  term
                 includes, but is not limited to, corporations, limited liability partnerships, and individuals.


                 CPOC – Company Point of Contact as specified by the contract


                 CPSPM – Center for Personnel Security and Project Management


                 COR – Contracting Officer’s Representative


                 Contractor Employee – In this clause, this term means a person hired by an SSA Contractor to provide services  in  exchange  for
                 compensation.


                 PIV – Personal Identity Verification


                 Subcontractor – In this clause, this term means any entity that has  a  relationship  with  SSA’s  Contractor  because  of  this
                 contract.  This term includes, but is not limited to, corporations, limited liability partnerships, and individuals.


                 Subcontractor Employee - In this clause, this term means a person hired by a subcontractor to provide services in  exchange  for
                 compensation.


                 eQIP -  Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing


              b) Purpose 


                 This clause provides SSA’s policies and procedures  concerning  the  conduct  of  background  investigations  (i.e.  suitability
                 determinations).  The purpose of these investigations is to determine the  suitability  of  Contractors,  Contractor  employees,
                 subcontractors, and subcontractor employees who need access to an SSA facility, site, system, or  information.   If  applicable,
                 the clause also describes the process to obtain a PIV credential.


              c) PIV Credentials


                 A PIV credential will be required for:


                     • Any Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee requiring access to a SSA information system
                       or routine, unescorted access to a SSA facility or site for a period of six months or more.  (See Paragraph  k.  for  more
                       information.)


                 A PIV credential will not be required for:
                       •


                     • Any Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee requiring escorted access to a SSA  facility
                       or site for less than six months.
                     • Any Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee requiring infrequent escorted  access  to  a
                       SSA facility or site, even if the access may be longer than six months.  For example, Contractors or Contractor  employees
                       who provide infrequent facilities/equipment maintenance or repair, conduct onsite shredding, etc.


                 Please Note: A background investigation is required any time a Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or  subcontractor
                 employee requires any type of access to a facility, site, system, or information regardless of whether a credential is  required
                 or not.


                 The Contractor is required to include the substance of this clause in any subcontract  where  subcontractors  and  subcontractor
                 employees will have similar access as described in the  preceding  paragraphs.   However,  the  Contractor  is  responsible  for
                 obtaining all of the required forms (see paragraphs g-i) from its subcontractors and the  subcontractors’  employees,  reviewing
                 these forms, and submitting them to SSA.  Subcontractors and subcontractors’ employees shall not submit forms directly to SSA.


              d) Authorities


                     • Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12


                     • Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-05-24


                     • The Crime Control Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, subtitle E, as amended by Public  Law  102-190  (for  childcare  center
                       security requirements)


                     • Executive Orders 10450 and 12968 and Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 731, 732  and  736  (for  positions
                       assigned a “National Security” designation)


              e) Background Investigation and Adjudication Process


                 The background investigation and adjudication processes are compliant with 5 CFR 731.


              f) Listing of Applicants


                 Upon award, the CPOC will provide to SSA an applicant listing of all  individuals  for  whom  the  Contractor  is  requesting  a
                 suitability determination (i.e., background investigation).  This listing should include the  Contractor’s  name,  the  contract
                 number, the CPOC’s name, the CPOC’s contact information, each applicant’s full name, each  applicant’s  Social  Security  number
                 (SSN), each applicant’s date of birth, and each applicant’s place of birth (must show city and  state  if  born  in  the  United
                 States (U.S.) OR city and country if born outside of the U.S.).  The background investigation process does not start  until  the
                 CPOC submits this applicant listing; therefore, the CPOC should submit the listing as soon as practical after award.


                 Submit the applicant listing via U.S. Mail to the address located in paragraph i. OR via fax to 410-966-0640.


              g) Required Forms


                    1)  eQIP


                       SSA will initiate the eQIP process using the applicant listing provided by the CPOC.  SSA will email notification  to  the
                       CPOC that each applicant has been invited into the eQIP website to electronically complete their background  investigation
                       form.  The CPOC will provide the website to the applicants to complete their eQIP form.  The applicant  will  have  up  to
                       seven (7) calendar days to complete the eQIP form.  The seven-day timeframe begins once SSA notifies the CPOC of the  eQIP
                       invitation(s).  The applicant must print the signature pages of the form (pages 5 and 6 for Standard Form (SF) 85; pages 7-
                       9 for SF 85P), sign the signature pages, and then provide the signed originals to the CPOC.










                    2)  Paper Forms


                          • Two (2) Field Division-258 charts, Applicant Fingerprint Chart (The CO will provide the FD-258 charts at the time of
                            contract award.)


                            NOTE: The Contractor will be responsible for obtaining  and  providing  acceptable  fingerprints  for  use  by  SSA.
                            Regardless of the method used to fingerprint Contractors, Contractor  employees,  subcontractors,  or  subcontractor
                            employees, (electronic capture or ink) the only acceptable fingerprint chart is the FD-258.


                          • Optional Form 306, Declaration for Federal Employment
                            http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/of.asp


                          • Fair Credit Reporting Act Authorization Form
                            Federal Investigations Notice: 98-02


                          • Original signed and dated eQIP Signature Pages (See paragraph g.1 above)


                          • If the Contractor, Contractor employee,  subcontractor  or  subcontractor  employee  is  not  a  U.S.  Citizen,  the
                            individual must provide SSA with a legible photocopy of his or her work authorization  permit  and  Social  Security
                            card.

              h) Forms Completion 


                 The CPOC must ensure all paper forms are fully completed and signed prior to submission to SSA.  The fingerprint charts and  all
                 paper forms must be legible or typed in black ink and all signatures must be in  black  ink.   There  must  be  no  “breaks”  in
                 residences or employment.  SSA requires complete addresses, including zip codes and  phone  numbers.   SSA  must  receive  forms
                 within 30 days of signature and date.


                 SSA will return forms not fully completed to the CPOC.  To ensure the forms are  completed  correctly,  obtain  a  sample  of  a
                 properly completed form at the following website:


                 http://www.ssa.gov/oag/acq/Sample_Security_Requirement_Docs%20.pdf


                 Access information related to the eQIP process at: e-QIP - Quick Reference Guide for the Applicant.


              i) Forms Submission


                 The CPOC shall submit one cover sheet to SSA containing the names  of  all  of  the  individuals  for  whom  the  Contractor  is
                 submitting completed paperwork.  This cover sheet  should  include  the  contract  number,  each  applicant’s  full  name,  each
                 applicant’s SSN, each applicant’s date of birth, and each applicant’s place of birth. Submit this cover  sheet  along  with  the
                 completed paper forms and two FD-258 fingerprint charts for each applicant to:


                       SSA
                       CPSPM Suitability Team
                       6401 Security Boulevard
                       Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
                       Baltimore, MD  21235


                 Simultaneously, the CPOC must submit a copy of the cover sheet ONLY to the COR.


                 The CPOC must submit the paper forms at least 15 days prior to  the  date  work  is  to  begin.   For  new  contract  employees,
                 subcontractors, or subcontract employees (i.e., those who had not previously received a  suitability  determination  under  this
                 contract) who will need access to a SSA facility, site, information, or system, the Contractor must submit these forms at  least
                 15 days prior to beginning work under the contract.

              j) Suitability Determination


                 A Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint check will be used as part of the basis for making  a  suitability  determination.
                 This determination is final unless information obtained during the remainder of the full background investigation, conducted  by
                 the Office of Personnel Management, is such that SSA would find the individual unsuitable  to  continue  performing  under  this
                 contract.  CPSPM will notify the CPOC, COR, and CO of the results of these determinations.


                 No Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee will be allowed access to  a  SSA  facility,  site,
                 information, or system until CPSPM has issued a favorable suitability determination for that  Contractor,  Contractor  employee,
                 subcontractor, or subcontractor employee.


                 A Contractor is not entitled to an equitable adjustment of the contract because of an unfavorable suitability  determination(s).
                 Additionally, if SSA determines that the number or percentage of unfavorable determinations make successful contract performance
                 unlikely, SSA may terminate the contract for cause or default.


                 The Contractor must notify the Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee of any unsuitable determinations as
                 soon as possible after receipt of such a determination (see paragraph p., below, for an explanation of the appeals process). 


              k) Obtaining a Credential


                 Note: This section applies only if the Contractor, Contractor employee,  subcontractor,  or  subcontractor  employee  will  have
                 access to a facility, site, system, or information as described in the first bullet of paragraph c.


                 Once the Contractor, Contractor employee,  subcontractor,  or  subcontract  employee  receives  notification  of  an  acceptable
                 suitability determination, but prior to beginning work under the contract, the Contractor, Contractor  employee,  subcontractor,
                 or subcontract employee must appear at the respective Regional Security Office or at SSA Headquarters Parking and  Credentialing
                 Office to begin the credentialing process.  The Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor,  or  subcontract  employee  must
                 present the suitability determination letter and two forms of identification at this meeting.  At least  one  of  the  forms  of
                 identification must be a Government-issued photo identification (ID) (please see Employment Eligibility Verification,  I-9,  for
                 acceptable forms of ID).  For SSA Headquarters access, a completed Form SSA-4395, Application  for  Access  to  SSA  Facilities,
                 signed by the Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee and the COR is  also  required.   The  COR
                 will provide the SSA-4395 Form to the Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee  when  applicable.




                 The Contractor must contact the COR to arrange for credentialing.  The COR is responsible  for  scheduling  an  appointment  for
                 Contractors, Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontract employees  to  meet  with  the  appropriate  SSA  Parking  and
                 Credentialing Office or Regional Security Office and obtain a credential.  Once the COR makes  the  appointment,  the  COR  must
                 contact the Contractor to inform the Contractor of the  credentialing  appointment(s).   The  COR  must  also  arrange  for  the
                 Contractor, Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontract employees to  be  escorted  (by  either  the  COR  or  a  COR’s
                 representative) to the appropriate credentialing office at the time of this appointment.


                 Credentialing appointments last approximately 15 minutes.  Depending on a  Contractor’s  scheduling  needs  and  availabilities,
                 Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontract employees may be scheduled for credentialing all in one day  (this  process
                 may take a few hours to complete, depending on the number of employees that need to be credentialed)  or  Contractor  employees,
                 subcontractors, or subcontract employees may come in at separate times convenient to the individuals’ and the COR’s schedules.


                 SSA Headquarters’ Parking and Credentialing Office representatives can be reached by emailing  Parking.and.Credentialing@ssa.gov
                 or calling 410/965-5910.


                 Regional Security Office contact information can be found in the Appendix at the end of this clause.


              l) Contractors, Contractor Employees, Subcontractors, or Subcontract Employees Previously Cleared by SSA or Another Federal Agency


                 If a Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee previously  received  a  suitability  determination
                 from SSA or another Federal agency, the CPOC should include this information next  to  the  individual’s  name  on  the  initial
                 applicant listing (see paragraph f.).  CPSPM will review the information.  If CPSPM determines another suitability determination
                 is not required, it will provide a letter to the CPOC and COR indicating the Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor,  or
                 subcontract employee was previously cleared under another Federal contract and does not  need  to  go  through  the  suitability
                 determination process again.


              m) Contractor Notification to Government


                 The Contractor shall notify the COR and CPSPM within one business day if the Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor,  or
                 subcontract employee is arrested or charged with a crime during the term of this contract, or if there is any  other  change  in
                 the status of the Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee (e.g., the Contractor employee  leaves
                 the company; the Contractor employee no longer works under  the  contract;  the  alien  status  of  the  Contractor,  Contractor
                 employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee changes) that could affect the suitability determination for  that  individual.
                 The Contractor must provide in that notification as  much  detail  as  possible,  including,  but  not  limited  to: name(s)  of
                 individual whose status has changed, contract number, the type of charge(s), if applicable, the court date, and,  if  available,
                 the disposition of the charge(s).








              n) Contractor Return of PIV Credential


                 The Contractor must account for and ensure that all forms of Government-provided identification (PIV  credential)  issued  to  a
                 Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee under this contract are returned to SSA’s  Headquarters’
                 Parking and Credentialing Office or Regional Security Office, as appropriate, as soon as any of the  following  occur:  when  no
                 longer needed for  contract  performance;  upon  completion  of  a  Contractor’s,  Contractor  employee’s,  subcontractor’s,  or
                 subcontract employee’s employment; or upon contract completion or termination.


              o) Government Control


                 The Government has full control over and may grant, deny, or withhold access to a facility, site, system, or information and may
                 remove Contractors, or require the Contractor to remove Contractor employees, subcontractors, or require  the  subcontractor  to
                 remove subcontractor employees from performing under the contract for reasons related to conduct even after the  individual  has
                 been found suitable to work on the contract (see paragraph q. below).


              p) Appeals Process for Unsuitable Determinations


                 If a Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontract employee would like clarification or  wishes  to  appeal  an
                 unsuitable determination, his/her request must be in writing and submitted  within  30  days  of  the  date  of  the  unsuitable
                 determination.  The Contractor may not file appeals on behalf  of  its  employees,  subcontractors,  or  subcontract  employees;
                 rather, Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontract employees must file their own individual appeals.




                 The request for clarification and/or the appeal can be emailed to SSA at dchr.ope.hspd12appeals@ssa.gov, or mailed to:


                       Social Security Administration
                       Attn:  CPSPM Suitability Program Officer
                       6401 Security Boulevard
                       Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
                       Baltimore, MD  21235


              q) Removal From Duty


                 SSA may remove a Contractor, or request that the Contractor immediately remove or cause to be removed any  Contractor  employee,
                 subcontractor, or subcontract employee from working  under  the  contract  based  on  conduct  that  occurs  after  a  favorable
                 suitability determination.  This includes temporarily removing a  contract  employee,  subcontractor,  or  subcontract  employee
                 should the individual be arrested for a violation of law pending the outcome of any judicial proceedings.  The  Contractor  must
                 comply with these requests to remove or cause to have removed any Contractor employee, subcontractor, or  subcontract  employee.
                 The Government's determination may be made based on, but not limited to, incidents involving the misconduct  or  delinquency  as
                 set forth below:


                    i. Violation of the Rules and Regulations Governing Public Buildings and Grounds, 41 CFR 101-20.3.  This includes  any  local
                       badging requirements.


                   ii. Neglect of duty, including sleeping while on duty; unreasonable delays or failure to carry out assigned tasks;  conducting
                       personal affairs while on duty; and refusing to cooperate in upholding the integrity of SSA's security program.


                  iii. Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction  of  any  official  documents  or  records,  or
                       concealment of material facts by willful omissions from official documents or records.


                   iv. Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation  by  words  or  actions,  or  fighting.
                       Also, participating in disruptive activities that interfere with the normal and efficient operations of the Government.


                    v. Theft, vandalism, or any other criminal actions.


                   vi. Selling, consuming, possessing, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or  substances  that  produce  similar
                       effects.


                  vii. Improper use of official authority or credentials.


                 viii. Unauthorized use of communications equipment or Government property.


                   ix. Misuse of weapon(s) or tools used in the performance of the contract.


                    x. Unauthorized access to areas not required for the performance of the contract.


                   xi. Unauthorized access to employees' personal property.


                  xii. Violation of security procedures or regulations.


                 xiii. Prior determination by SSA or other Federal agency that a Contractor, Contractor employee, subcontractor,  or  subcontract
                       employee was unsuitable.


                  xiv. Unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, agency programmatic or sensitive information, or Internal  Revenue  Service  Tax
                       Return information.


                   xv. Unauthorized access to an agency Automated Information System.


                  xvi. Unauthorized access of information for personal gain (including, but not limited to, monetary  gain),  or  with  malicious
                       intent.


                 xvii. Not providing for the confidentiality of and protection  from  disclosure  of  information  entrusted  to  them.   Certain
                       provisions of the following statutes and regulations that apply to Federal employees also apply  equally  to  Contractors,
                       Contractor employees, subcontractors, and subcontract employees:

                          • The Privacy Act of 1974
                          • The Tax Reform Act of 1976 and the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997
                          • SSA regulation 1
                          • The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986
                          • Section 1106 of the Social Security Act


                xviii. Being under investigation by an appropriate authority for violating any of the above.


           Appendix: Regional Security Offices


           Regional Credentialing Contacts for Contractor Employees


           Region 1 – Boston
           Management and Operations Support, Lenny Nyren – 617-565-2840


           Region 2 – New York
           Center for Materiel Resources, Field Services Team, General Office – 212-264-2603


           Region 3 – Philadelphia
           Center for Materiel Resources, Building Management Team,
           General Office - 215-597-8201


           Region 4 – Atlanta
           Center for Security and Integrity, Coleman Wicks – 404-562-1252


           Region 5 – Chicago
           Management and Operations Support, Building Services Unit
                 Sharon Young        – 312 575-4150
                 Evelyn Principe     – 312 575-6342
                 Sofia Luna         – 312 575-5762
                 Carlon Brown            – 312 575-5957
                 Cassandra Murphy - 312 575-5067


           Region 6 – Dallas
           Center for Materiel Resources, Employee Relations, Veronica Drake – 214-767-2221


           Region 7 – Kansas City
           Center for Security Integrity, General Office Line – 816-936-5555


           Region 8 – Denver
           Center for Security and Integrity, Phil Mocon – 303-844-4016


           Region 9 - San Francisco
           Center for Security and Integrity, Cassandra Mapp - 510-970-4124


           Region 10 - Seattle
            Center for Security and Integrity
                 Lisa Steepleton - 206-615-2186
                 D’ette Day        - 206-615-2149


      C-6.2 AS 0402 – Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and Agency Privacy Management (Oct 2008)


              a) Definitions


                 The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:


                 “Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).


                 “OAG” means the Office of Acquisition and Grants at SSA.


              b) Agency Responsibility related to FISMA Training Requirements


                 The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) (Title III, Pub. L. No. 107-347) and the  Office  of  Management
                 and Budget (OMB) policy (through Circular A-130, Appendix III) require that all Agency employees,  as  well  as  Contractor  and
                 subcontractor employees working under Agency service contacts, receive periodic training  in  computer  security  awareness  and
                 accepted computer security practice of all employees, including Contractors.  This includes training  for  Contractor  personnel
                 who do not have access to electronic information systems. The training level is tailored to  the  risk  and  magnitude  of  harm
                 related to the required activities.


                 SSA’s Security Awareness bulletin adequately covers the required IT security and privacy awareness training for  this  contract.
                 The bulletin is located on OAG’s internet site (see information in Paragraph C below).  This  training  does  not  preclude  any
                 additional training specified elsewhere in this contract.


              c) Contractor Responsibilities related to FISMA Training Requirements


                    1) Following contract award, the Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor employees performing under  this  contract  have
                       signed the security bulletin entitled  “SSA  Security  Awareness:  Contractor  Personnel  Security  Certification.”   This
                       requirement also applies to Contractor employees added to the contract after contract performance has commenced.   A  copy
                       of this form is located on OAG's Internet website.


                    2) The Contractor must receive signed copies of the bulletin from each employee working under the  contract  within  45  days
                       following contract award, or within 45 days after a Contractor employee begins working under the contract.


                    3) The Contractor shall send an email to security.awareness.training@ssa.gov, with a copy to the contracting officer,  within
                       60 days following contract award and anytime a new Contractor employee is added to perform work under the  contract.   The
                       Contractor will include in the email the number of employees who have signed the security awareness bulletin.


                    4) The Contractor shall retain copies of these signed bulletins for potential future SSA audits for a period of  three  years
                       after final payment (per FAR 4.703).

                    5) For each successive year the contract is in operation, the Contractor shall repeat the processes described in items C. 1 –
                       4, above, on an annual basis.  The Contractor must submit the information in C.3, above, within 60 days of: (i)  the  date
                       the option was renewed, or (ii) the anniversary of the contract award date.


              d) Applicability of this Clause to Contractor/subcontractor employees


                 The Contractor is required to include a clause substantially the same as this in  all  subcontracts  awarded  for  technical  or
                 support services under the prime contract.  This clause shall require the subcontractors to report  the  information  listed  in
                 Paragraph C of this clause to the Contractor and the Contractor will be responsible for reporting all applicable numbers to SSA.
                  The subcontractor shall be responsible for maintaining its signed forms as detailed in Paragraph C.4.



      C-6.3 AS 1902 – Section 8(a) Direct Award (Aug 2008)



           (a)   This contract is issued as a direct award between  the  Social  Security  Administration  (SSA)  and  the  8(a)  Contractor  in
                 accordance with the  Partnership  Agreement  between  the  Small  Business  Administration  (SBA)  and  SSA.   SBA  does  retain
                 responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a)  eligibility  determinations  and  related  issues,  and  providing  counseling  and
                 assistance to the 8(a) Contractor under the 8(a) program.  The cognizant SBA district office is:


                           [Complete at the time of award]


           (b)   SSA is responsible for administering the contract, and taking  action  on   behalf  of  the  Government  under  the  terms  and
                 conditions of the contract.  SSA must however give  advance  notice  to  SBA  before  SSA  issues  a  final  notice  terminating
                 performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract.  SSA must  coordinate  with  SBA  before  processing  any  novation
                 agreement.  SSA may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.


           (c)   The contractor agrees:


                 (1)   To notify the Contracting Officer, simultaneous with the Contractor's notification to  SBA  (as  required  by  SBA's  8(a)
                       regulations), when the owner(s) upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based  plan  to  relinquish  ownership  or  control  of  the
                       concern.  Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership  or  control  must  result  in  termination  of  the
                       contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement for termination before the  Contractor  actually  relinquishes
                       ownership and control.


                 (2)   That it will adhere to the requirements of 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting.




      C-6.4 AS 2401 – Protection of Confidential Information (Dec 2008)


              a) Confidential information, as used in this clause, means information or data, or copies or extracts of information or data,  that
                 is:  (1) provided by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to the Contractor for, or otherwise obtained by the Contractor in,
                 the performance of this contract; and (2) of a personal nature about an individual, such  as  name,  home  address,  and  social
                 security number, or proprietary information or data submitted by or pertaining  to  an  institution  or  organization,  such  as
                 employee pay scales and indirect cost rates.


           (b)   The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information  or
                 categories of information that the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the  Contractor  is  expected  to  generate
                 which are confidential.  Similarly,  the  Contracting  Officer  and  the  Contractor  may,  by  mutual  consent,  identify  such
                 confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract.  The confidential information  will  be  used
                 only for purposes delineated in the contract; any other use  of  the  confidential  information  will  require  the  Contracting
                 Officer’s express written authorization.  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor will settle any disagreements regarding the
                 identification pursuant to the "Disputes" clause.


           (c)   The Contractor shall restrict access to all confidential information to the minimum number of employees and officials who  need
                 it to perform the contract.  Employees and officials who need access to confidential information for performance of the contract
                 will be determined in conference between SSA's Contracting Officer, Contracting  Officer’s  Technical  Representative,  and  the
                 responsible Contractor official.  Upon request, the Contractor will provide SSA with a list of “authorized personnel,” that  is,
                 all persons who have or will have access to confidential information covered by this clause.


           (d)   The Contractor shall process all confidential information under the immediate supervision and control of  authorized  personnel
                 in a manner that will:  protect the confidentiality of the records; prevent the unauthorized use  of  confidential  information;
                 and prevent access to the records by unauthorized persons.


           (e)   The Contractor shall inform all authorized personnel with access to confidential information of the confidential nature of  the
                 information and the administrative, technical and  physical  safeguards  required  to  protect  the  information  from  improper
                 disclosure.  All confidential information shall, at all times, be stored in an area that is physically  safe  from  unauthorized
                 access.  See paragraph (f) below regarding the minimum standards which the safeguards must meet.


           (f)   Whenever the Contractor is storing, viewing, transmitting, or otherwise handling confidential information, the Contractor shall
                 comply with the applicable standards for security controls  that  are  established  in  the  Federal  Information  Security  and
                 Management Act (FISMA).  (These standards include those set by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) via the
                 Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) publications and NIST Special Publications, particularly FIPS 199, FIPS 200, and
                 NIST Special Publications - 800 series.)


           (g)   If the Contractor, in the performance of the contract, uses any information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C.  552a,
                 and/or section 1106 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1306, the Contractor must follow the rules  and  procedures  governing
                 proper use and disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act, section  1106  of  the  Social  Security  Act,  and  the  Commissioner's
                 regulations at 20 C.F.R. Part 401 with respect to that information.


                 For knowingly disclosing information in violation of the Privacy Act, the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject  to
                 the criminal penalties as set forth in 5 U.S.C. Section 552(i)(1) to the  same  extent  as  employees  of  SSA.   For  knowingly
                 disclosing confidential information as described in section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306), the Contractor and
                 Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal penalties as set forth in that provision.


           (h)   The Contractor shall assure that each Contractor employee with  access  to  confidential  information  is  made  aware  of  the
                 prescribed rules of conduct, and the criminal penalties for violations of the Privacy Act and/or the Social Security Act.


              i) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain how to handle properly any material under the contract, the Contractor must obtain  written
                 instructions from the Contracting Officer addressing this question.  If the material in question is subject to the  Privacy  Act
                 and/or section 1106 of the Social Security Act or is otherwise confidential  information  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this
                 clause, the Contractor must obtain a written determination from the  Contracting  Officer  prior  to  any  release,  disclosure,
                 dissemination, or publication.  Contracting Officer  instructions  and  determinations  will  reflect  the  result  of  internal
                 coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.


           (j)   Performance of this contract may involve access to tax return information as defined  in  26  U.S.C.  Section  6103(b)  of  the
                 Internal Revenue Code (IRC).  All such information shall be confidential and may not be disclosed without the written permission
                 of the SSA Contracting Officer.  For willfully disclosing confidential tax return information  in  violation  of  the  IRC,  the
                 Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal penalties set forth in 26 U.S.C. Section 7213.


           (k)   The Government reserves the right to conduct on-site visits to review the Contractor's documentation  and  in-house  procedures
                 for protection of and security arrangements for confidential information and adherence to the terms of this clause.


           (l)   The  Contractor  must  include  this  clause  in  all  resulting  subcontracts  whenever  there  is  any  indication  that  the
                 subcontractor(s), engaged by the Contractor, and their employees or successor subcontractor(s) and their  employees  might  have
                 access to SSA's confidential information.


           (m)   The Contractor must assure that its subcontractor(s) and their employees or any successor subcontractor(s) and their  employees
                 with access to SSA confidential information are made aware of the prescribed rules of conduct.  For knowingly  disclosing  SSA's
                 confidential information, any subcontractor(s) and their employees or successor subcontractor(s)  and  their  employees  may  be
                 subject to criminal penalties as described in section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306) and the  Privacy  Act  (5
                 U.S.C. 552a).


      C-6.5 AS 2402 – Protecting and Reporting the Loss of Personally Identifiable Information: Responsibilities Concerning Individual  Employees
           (Dec 2008)


              1. Definitions

                 The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:


                 “Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).


                 “Employee(s)” means an individual(s) employed, including, for the purposes of this clause, management officials, by  either  the
                 Contractor or subcontractor that are working under this contract.


                 “Handling PII” means having access, either currently or in the future, to personally identifiable information (PII), as  defined
                 in this clause.


                 “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” means that, while the Contractor/employee is in possession of PII,  the  PII
                 has become physically missing (e.g., it has been stolen) or has been otherwise breached so that persons  other  than  authorized
                 users, and for other than an authorized purpose, have access or potential access to the  PII,  regardless  of  the  form  (e.g.,
                 electronic or physical) in which it was stored.  Indications of  lost,  compromised,  or  potentially  compromised  PII  include
                 missing equipment (e.g., laptops and removable storage devices such as USB flash or “thumb”  drives,  CDs,  DVDs,  etc.)  and/or
                 paper documents potentially containing PII, as well as actions where PII was emailed in violation  of  the  terms  contained  in
                 Section 2.(d), Emailing PII, below.


                 “Personally Identifiable Information” (PII):  SSA follows the definition of PII provided by the Office of Management and  Budget
                 in OMB Memorandum OMB M-07-16:  “The term ‘personally identifiable information’ refers to any information which can be  used  to
                 distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as their name, Social Security number, biometric  records,  etc.  alone,  or
                 when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as  date
                 and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.”  Other examples of PII may include, but are not  limited  to:   Social  Security
                 benefit data, official State or government  issued  driver's  license  or  identification  number,  alien  registration  number,
                 government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number, home address,  and  medical  information.   Within  this
                 clause, “PII” shall specifically mean PII as defined above which:  (1) SSA has a primary responsibility for and/or  interest  in
                 protecting; and (2) is made available or becomes  accessible  to  the  Contractor  and/or  any  subcontractor,  including  their
                 respective employees, as a result of performing under this contract (e.g., under the contract, SSA directly furnishes PII to the
                 Contractor/subcontractor, or the Contractor/subcontractor, in order to perform its duties under the contract, collects PII  from
                 outside sources, such as in a public survey).


                 “Secure Area” or “Secure Duty Station” means, for the purpose of this clause, either of  the  following,  unless  SSA  expressly
                 states otherwise on a case-by-case  basis:   (1)  an  employee’s  official  place  of  work  that  is  in  the  Contractor’s  or
                 subcontractor’s established business office in a commercial setting, OR (2) a location within SSA or other  Federal-  or  State-
                 controlled premises.  A person’s private home, even if it is used regularly as a “home office” (including that of  a  Contractor
                 or subcontractor management official), shall not be considered a secure area or duty station.


           2.    Employee Responsibility in Safeguarding PII

                 The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and follow its own policy and procedures to protect PII, including those for reporting
                 lost or compromised, or potentially lost or compromised, PII (see Section 4. (a),  below).   The  Contractor  shall  inform  its
                 employees handling PII of their individual responsibility to safeguard it.  In addition, the Contractor  shall,  within  reason,
                 take appropriate and necessary action to:  (1) educate employees on the proper procedures designed to protect PII, as  described
                 below and as otherwise approved by the Agency; and (2) enforce their compliance with the policy  and  procedures  prescribed  as
                 follows:


                    a) General.


                       Employees shall properly safeguard PII from loss,  theft,  or  inadvertent  disclosure.   Employees  are  responsible  for
                       safeguarding this information at all times, regardless of whether or not the employee  is  at  his  or  her  regular  duty
                       station.   Examples of proper safeguarding include, but are not limited  to:   maintaining  the  confidentiality  of  each
                       employee’s individual password (by not sharing the password with any other individual or entity and not writing it  down);
                       verifying the identity of individuals before disclosing information to them; preventing others in the  area  from  viewing
                       PII on one's computer screen; consistently locking or logging off one's workstation when one is away;  and  ensuring  that
                       PII is appropriately returned or, upon receiving SSA’s approval, destroyed when no longer needed.


                   (b)       Transporting PII Outside a Secure Area/Secure Duty Station.


                       Note:  The term “transporting” used here does not include shipping by a common or contract  carrier,  as  defined  in  FAR
                       47.001, or by the U.S. Post Office.


                         1) Employees shall make every reasonable effort to  safeguard  equipment,  files,  or  documents  containing  PII  when
                            transporting information from a secure area/secure duty station.  Employees must ensure that the laptops  and  other
                            electronic devices/media being used to transport PII are encrypted and password  protected.   The  Contractor  shall
                            make every reasonable effort to ensure that the encryption and password protection are in accordance with  any  SSA-
                            prescribed standards or policies which shall be communicated  separately  from  this  clause.   Employees  must  use
                            reasonable protection measures when transporting PII, e.g., storing files in a locked briefcase, not  leaving  files
                            and/or equipment in plain view.
                       (2)   Employees transporting PII, including transporting PII duplications, such as electronic copies and photocopies, from
                            their secure duty station or an otherwise secured  area  to  an  unsecured  area  shall  obtain  prior  approval  in
                            accordance with  the  Contractor’s  established  policy.   The  Contractor  shall  provide  employees  with  contact
                            information and instructions based on the Contractor’s security/PII loss  incident  policy  and  procedures.  (NOTE:
                            Agency-prescribed contact information and instructions for reporting lost or possibly  lost  PII  are  discussed  in
                            Section 3. below.)
                       (3)   Tracking files.
                            Unless the PII is being transported for disposal pursuant to the contract, (see (c) below),  the  Contractor  shall,
                            within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to ensure that the  file(s)  or  document(s)  being  physically
                            transported or transmitted electronically outside the secure area/secure duty station are  tracked  through  a  log:
                            they must be logged out prior to transport as well as logged back in upon return.  The Contractor can establish  any
                            mechanism for tracking as long as the process, at a minimum, provides for the following information to be logged:
                                • first and last name of the employee taking/returning the material;
                                • the name of the file or document containing PII that he/she intends to transport from the office;
                                • all the forms or media in which the PII was transported (e.g., electronic, such as laptop, thumb  drive,  CD—be
                                  as specific as possible; paper, such as paper file folders or printouts);
                                • the reason he/she intends to transport the file or document containing PII;
                                • the date he/she transported the file or document containing PII from the secure duty station; and
                                • the date he/she returned the file or document containing PII to the secure duty station.
                            Materials must be returned or documented as destroyed within 90 days of removal from the office or  have  Contractor
                            supervisory approval for being held longer.


                            The log must be maintained in a secure manner.  Upon request  by  the  Agency,  the  Contractor  shall  provide  the
                            information from the log in a format (e.g., electronic or paper) that can be readily accessed by the Agency.


                        (c)        Employee Disposal of PII.

                            This contract does not entail employee disposal of PII.  The Contractor shall, within reason, take  appropriate  and
                            necessary action to ensure that the procedures detailed in (3) above pertaining  to  the  logging  of  PII  that  is
                            transported outside a secure area/from their secure duty station are followed.


                       (d)   Emailing PII.  The Contractor’s corporate or organizational email system is deemed not to be secure.  Therefore, the
                            Contractor shall put policies and procedures in place to  ensure  that  its  employees  email  PII  using  only  the
                            following procedures in (1)-(2), below:


                            (1)   Sending from an SSA email address.  If employees have been given access to the SSA email system, they may  use
                                  it to send email messages containing PII in the body or in an unencrypted attachment  but  only  to  other  SSA
                                  email addresses (which contain the “name @ssa.gov” format) or to email addresses belonging to an  SSA-certified
                                  email system. Email directed to any other address(es) may contain PII only if the PII is entirely contained  in
                                  an encrypted attachment.


                            (2)   Sending from a non-SSA email system.  If employees are using the Contractor’s own or any other  non-SSA  email
                                  system (e.g., Yahoo!, Gmail), they may send email messages  transmitting  PII  only  if  the  PII  is  entirely
                                  contained in an encrypted attachment; none of the PII may be  in  the  body  of  the  email  itself  or  in  an
                                  unencrypted attachment.  When emailing from such systems, this procedure applies when emailing PII to any email
                                  address, including but not limited to, an SSA email system address.  Unless specifically noted  otherwise,  the
                                  Contractor and its employees are expected  to  conduct  business  operations  under  this  contract  using  the
                                  Contractor’s own email system, i.e., in accordance with the foregoing rules for transmitting PII.

           3.    Agency-Prescribed Procedures for Reporting Lost, Compromised, or Potentially Compromised PII.

                 “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” is defined in Section 1., above.  The reporting requirement  established  in
                 this section is for reporting all incidents involving PII, with no distinction between suspected and confirmed breaches.


                 SSA has its own reporting requirements for PII that is lost, compromised, or  potentially  compromised.   The  purpose  of  this
                 section is to ensure that these requirements are met and that incident information is shared appropriately.

                 (a)   Contractor Responsibility.


                       In addition to establishing and implementing its own internal procedures referenced in Section 2., above,  the  Contractor
                       is responsible for taking reasonable actions  to  implement  Agency-prescribed  procedures  described  in  (c)  below  for
                       reporting lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII.  These include educating employees handling PII  about  these
                       procedures and otherwise taking appropriate and necessary steps to enforce their compliance in carrying them out.


                    b) Potential Need for Immediate, Direct Reporting by the Employee.


                       SSA recognizes that Contractor employees will likely make the initial  discovery  of  a  PII  security  breach.   When  an
                       employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost or compromised, he/she is required to  follow  the  Contractor’s
                       established security/PII loss incident reporting process (see Section 4. (a), below).  The Contractor’s reporting process,
                       along with SSA’s (see Section 3. (c) below), shall require the Contractor, and  not  necessarily  the  employee,  in  such
                       circumstances to notify SSA of the incident.  However, the Contractor shall inform each employee handling  or  potentially
                       handling PII that he/she must be prepared to directly notify outside authorities immediately as described in (c)(4) below,
                       if, shortly following the incident or discovery of the incident, he/she finds  it  evident  that  neither  an  appropriate
                       Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be reached.   The Contractor should emphasize to the employee  that  timeliness  in
                       reporting the incident is critical.


                 (c)   Procedures.


                       (1)   When an employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost, compromised, or potentially compromised  (see  1.
                            Definitions, above), the Contractor, in accordance with its incident  reporting  process,  shall  provide  immediate
                            notification of the incident to the primary SSA contact.  If the primary SSA contact is not readily  available,  the
                            Contractor shall immediately notify one of two SSA alternates, if names of alternates have  been  provided.   (**See
                            Attachment 5 for the identity of the designated primary and alternate SSA contacts.**)  The Contractor shall act  to
                            ensure that each employee, prior to commencing work on the contract, has  been  given  information  as  to  who  the
                            primary and alternate SSA contacts are and how to contact them.  In addition, the Contractor  shall  act  to  ensure
                            that each employee promptly receives any updates on such information as they  are  made  available.    Whenever  the
                            employee removes PII from a secure area/secure duty station, he/she  must  comply  with  the  Contractor's  security
                            policies, including having on hand the current  contact  information  for  the  primary  SSA  contact  and  the  two
                            alternates.


                       (2)   The Contractor shall provide the primary SSA contact or the alternate, as applicable, updates on the status  of  the
                            reported PII loss or compromise as they become available but shall not delay the initial report.


                       (3)   The Contractor shall provide complete and accurate information about the details of the possible PII loss to  assist
                            the SSA contact/alternate, including the following information:


                            I.    Contact information;
                            II.   A description of the loss, compromise, or potential  compromise  (i.e.,  nature  of  loss/compromise/potential
                                  compromise, scope, number of files or records, type of equipment or media,  etc.)  including  the  approximate
                                  time and location of the loss;
                            III.  A description of safeguards used, where applicable (e.g., locked  briefcase,  redacted  personal  information,
                                  password protection, encryption, etc.);
                            IV.   An identification of SSA  components  (organizational  divisions  or  subdivisions)  contacted,  involved,  or
                                  affected;
                            V.    Whether the Contractor or its employee has contacted or been contacted by any  external  organizations  (i.e.,
                                  other agencies, law enforcement, press, etc.);
                            VI.   Whether the Contractor or its employee has filed any other reports (i.e., Federal  Protective  Service,  local
                                  police, and SSA reports); and
                            VII.  Any other pertinent information


                            The Contractor shall use the worksheet (or a copy thereof) following this clause  to  quickly  gather  and  organize
                            information about the incident.


                       (4)   There may be rare instances outside of business hours when the Contractor is unable to reach either the primary  SSA
                            contact or any of the alternates immediately.  In such a situation, the  Contractor  shall  immediately  call  SSA’s
                            Network Customer Service Center (NCSC) at 410-965-7777 or toll free at 1-888-772-6111 to  file  the  initial  report
                            directly, providing the information in (c)(3) above and completing  the  attached  worksheet  to  the  best  of  its
                            ability.  Overall, during this time, the Contractor shall cooperate as necessary with the NCSC or any of  the  other
                            external organizations described in (c)(3) above.


                            The Contractor shall document the call with the CAPRS (Change, Asset, and Problem Reporting System) number which the
                            NCSC will assign.  The Contractor shall provide the CAPRS number to the primary SSA manager, or, if unavailable, one
                            of the alternates to this manager as described above.


                            If an employee initially detects the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII  and  finds  it  evident  that
                            neither an appropriate Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be promptly reached, the employee shall undertake  the
                            foregoing actions prescribed to the Contractor in this part (i.e., immediately call the  NCSC,  document  the  CAPRS
                            number assigned to the call, etc.).  (Reference Section 3.(b) above.)


                       (5)   The Contractor and its employee(s) shall limit disclosure of the information and details about an incident  to  only
                            those with a need to know.  The security/PII loss incident  reporting  process  will  ensure  that  SSA’s  reporting
                            requirements are met and that security/PII loss incident information is only shared as appropriate.

           4.    Additional Contractor Responsibilities When There Is a Loss of PII.

                 (a)   The Contractor shall have a formal security/PII incident reporting process in place that outlines  appropriate  roles  and
                       responsibilities, as well as the steps that must be taken, in the event of a security/PII loss incident.  The  plan  shall
                       designate who within the Contractor’s organization has responsibility for reporting the  loss,  compromise,  or  potential
                       compromise of PII to SSA.


                 (b)   In the event of a security/PII loss incident, the Contractor shall take immediate steps to address consequential  security
                       issues that have been identified, including steps to minimize further security risks to those individuals  whose  personal
                       information was lost, compromised, or potentially compromised.


                 (c)   The Contractor shall confer with SSA personnel in reviewing the actions the Contractor has taken  and  plans  to  take  in
                       dealing with the incident.


                 (d)   The Contractor shall bear the responsibility and any cost for any data breach and/or remediation actions that might  arise
                       from the security/PII loss incident.   If SSA  determines  that  the  risk  of  harm  requires  notification  of  affected
                       individual persons of the security breach and/or other remedies, the Contractor shall carry  out  these  remedies  without
                       cost to SSA.

           5.    Applicability of this Clause to Subcontractors/Subcontractor Employees

                    a) The Contractor shall include this clause in  all  resulting  subcontracts  whenever  there  is  any  indication  that  the
                       subcontractor and their employees, or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, will or might have access to PII.


                    b) The Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to assure SSA  that  its  subcontractor(s)  and
                       their employees, or any successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, with access to PII know the rules  of  conduct  in
                       protecting and reporting the loss or suspected loss of PII as prescribed in this  clause,  such  as  those  regarding  the
                       emailing of PII as stated in Section 2.(d) above.


                 (c)   Notification of Subcontractor Handling of PII.  If the Contractor  engages  a  subcontractor  under  this  contract  whose
                       employee(s) will actually or potentially be given or have access to PII, the Contractor shall do the following:


                       (1)   Notify in advance both the SSA  COR and the Contracting Officer of this  arrangement,  providing  the  subcontractor
                            name(s) and address(es) and, upon request, a description of the nature of the PII  to  which  the  employee(s)  will
                            actually or potentially be given/have access (e.g., phone numbers, Social Security numbers); and


                       (2)   Provide the SSA COR the names of the subcontractor employee(s) who will actually or potentially be  assigned  and/or
                            have access to the  PII.   The  Contractor  may  satisfy  this  requirement  when  submitting  the  name(s)  of  the
                            subcontractor employee(s) to the SSA COR for the requisite security background check described in Section 6., below.



           6.    Contractor/Subcontractor Background Checks – Security & Suitability Requirements Clause

                 For each Contractor and subcontractor employee handling PII, the Contractor shall fulfill the requirements  of  the  Security  &
                 Suitability Requirements Clause, found elsewhere in this contract, to ensure  that  any  such  individual  has  the  appropriate
                 background checks.


      C-6.6 AS 3204 – Contract Funding During a Continuing Resolution (Jul 2011)


           This contract may be partially funded if it is awarded during a continuing resolution.  If this occurs, funds will not  be  available
           for performance of this contract beyond the date specified on the contract.  The Government’s obligation for performance beyond  that
           date is contingent upon the availability of additional appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be  made.   No
           legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise for performance under this contract beyond the date specified
           on the contract, until additional funds are made available to  the  Contracting  Officer  for  performance,  and  added  by  contract
           modification.


           If the contract is partially funded, the Government will not accept supplies or services beyond the specified period  of  performance
           until additional funds have been added by contract modification.


           If this is a firm-fixed-price contract, the balance of the unfunded portion of the contract period will be obligated once the  agency
           has received its full appropriation, and the Contracting Officer has authority to fund the remaining portion of the contract.


      C-6.7 AS 4201 – Post Award Evaluation of Contractor Performance (Jul 2011)


              a) System Use:  The Social Security Administration (SSA) subscribes to the  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Contractor  Performance
                 Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) for collection of Contractor performance information  as  required  by  Federal  Acquisition
                 Regulation (FAR) Subpart 42.15.


                 CPARS is a web-enabled application that collects and manages a library of automated Contractor  report  cards.   A  report  card
                 assesses a Contractor’s performance and provides a record, both positive and negative, on a given contract for a specific period
                 (typically one year).  Each report card is based on objective facts and is supported by program and  contract  management  data.
                 Use of CPARS promotes report card consistency, and increases data integrity.


                 CPARS employs an electronic workflow allowing government officials to evaluate and rate a Contractor’s performance  on  a  given
                 contract for a specified period.  CPARS also allows Contractors to electronically submit  comments  regarding  the  Government’s
                 performance evaluation and indicate concurrence or non-concurrence with the overall evaluation.  The CPARS process  includes  an
                 electronic “check-and-balance” where an individual one level above the Contracting Officer (CO) (CPARS uses the  term  Reviewing
                 Official) reviews each Government-Contractor disagreement to ensure the report reflects a fair evaluation.


              b) Contractor Performance Evaluations:  Interim and final Contractor performance evaluations shall be prepared on this contract per
                 FAR Subpart 42.15.  The final performance evaluation will be prepared and completed within 120  days  after  completion  of  the
                 contract, order, or agreement.  Interim evaluation(s) will be prepared and completed as determined by the CO.  Interim and final
                 evaluations will be provided to the Contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation.  The  Contractor  will
                 be permitted 30 days to submit comments, rebut  statements, or provide additional information.  If agreement cannot  be  reached
                 between the parties, the performance evaluation will be reviewed by  an  individual  one  level  above  the  CO.   The  ultimate
                 conclusion of the performance evaluation is a decision of the contracting agency.   Copies  of  the  performance  evaluation(s),
                 Contractor response(s), and review comments, if any, will be retained in  CPARS,  and  may  be  used  to  support  future  award
                 decisions.


              c) Electronic Access to CPARS:   The Contractor shall designate a Contractor Representative (CR) for CPARS reporting.   The  agency
                 Focal Point (FP) or Alternate FP, are the only individuals who can grant users access to CPARS.  To gain access to CPARS, the CR
                 must submit the name(s) and email address(es) to the CO or Contract  Specialist  (CS)  administering  the  contract,  order,  or
                 agreement either prior to award by inclusion in your response to the solicitation, or within 15 days of award.  The  information
                 will be included in a CPARS User Access Matrix completed by the CO/CS and sent to the agency FP and Alternate FP.


                 Registered CRs will receive a system-generated email indicating access to the system was granted.  An additional email will  be
                 generated when there is a performance evaluation action to view and comment on an assessment.  Only  the  CR  who  received  the
                 email has access to the assessment.


                 Note:  Effective July 1, 2009, the FAR requires federal agencies to post all Contractor  performance  evaluations  in  the  Past
                 Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS).  PPIRS is a web-enabled,  enterprise  application  that  provides  timely  and
                 pertinent Contractor past performance information to DoD and  the  Federal  acquisition  community  for  use  in  making  source
                 selection decisions. PPIRS assists acquisition officials by serving as the single source for Contractor past  performance  data.
                 Government access is restricted to those individuals who are working on source selections, to include Contractor  responsibility
                 determinations.  The Contractor may view only its own  data.   A  Contractor  must  be  registered  in  the  Central  Contractor
                 Registration (CCR) system and must have created a Marketing Partner Identification Number in the CCR profile to access its PPIRS
                 information.


                 The CPARS website is http://www.cpars.gov/cparsmain.htm.  The left side of the website under “CPARS” provides a link  to  “FAQs”
                 and “Reference Material,” which is where Contractors can obtain a CPARS User Manual.


      C.6-8 AS 4202 – Designation of Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and Alternate COR (Jul 2011)


           The following Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COR) and Alternate COR will represent the Government for the purpose of
           this contract:


           | Name                         |Title                        |Address               |Telephone              |Email                  |
|                              |                             |                      |                       |                       |
|                              |                             |                      |                       |                       |

           The COR or Alternate COR may not re-delegate the authority outlined in this clause, or  the  authority  specified  within  their  COR
           designation letters.


           The COR is responsible for the following general duties:


              1) Monitoring the Contractor’s technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the
                 Contracting Officer (CO) changes in requirements;
              2) Interpreting the statement of work (SOW), statement of objective (SOO), or performance  work  statement  (PWS),  and  any  other
                 technical performance requirements;
              3) Performing technical evaluation of requirements as required;
              4) Performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this Contract;
              5) Assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance;
              6) Certifying invoices or vouchers for payment by confirming the receipt of goods and/or services at  the  contracted  price/costs;
                 and
              7) Initiating a Contractor Performance Assessment Report (CPAR) within 30  days  after  electronic  notification  that  a  CPAR  is
                 required.


           The alternate COR is responsible for carrying out the duties of the COR only in the event the COR can no longer perform  his  or  her
           duties as assigned, or is unavailable.


           The COR and Alternate COR are the only Government employees authorized by the CO to perform the functions listed  above,  or  provide
           the technical direction described below.


           The CO is the only person with authority to act as agent of the Government under this Contract.  Only the CO has authority to:


              1) Direct or negotiate any changes in the SOW, SOO, or PWS;
              2) Modify or extend the period of performance;
              3) Change the delivery schedule;
              4) Authorize reimbursement to the Contractor for any costs incurred during the performance of this Contract; or
              5) Otherwise, change any terms and conditions of this Contract.


           At any time during performance of this Contract, the CO may unilaterally remove or replace the COR or Alternate COR.


           The CO will provide written notice, transmitted electronically as an attachment to an email, or through standard mail carrier, to the
           Contractor, of such designation, or any change thereto, within a reasonable amount of time after award, or after  notification  of  a
           change is necessary.  The designation letter sets forth the specific authorities, responsibilities, and limitations of  the  COR,  or
           Alternate COR under this Contract.


           Performance of work under this Contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the COR.  The term  “technical  direction”  is
           defined to include, without limitation (except as specified in the COR designation letter), the following:


              b) Directions to the Contractor, on other than firm-fixed-price contracts, which redirect the contract effort, shift work  emphasis
                 between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to  accomplish  the
                 contractual SOW;
              c) Provisions of information to the Contractor, which assists in the  interpretation  of  drawings,  specifications,  or  technical
                 portions of the work description;
              d) Review and, where required by the Contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and  technical  information
                 to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the Contract.


           Technical direction must be within the general scope of the SOW, SOO, or PWS stated in Addendum B of this Contract.  The COR does not
           have the authority to and may not issue any technical direction that affects price, quality, quantity, delivery, or other  terms  and
           conditions of the Contract.


           All technical direction will be issued in writing by the COR or shall be confirmed by the COR in writing  within  five  working  days
           after issuance.


           The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the COR in the manner prescribed  by
           this clause and within the COR’s authority under the provisions of this clause.


           If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COR falls outside the  authority  of  the  COR,  the
           Contractor shall not proceed.  In this case, the Contractor shall notify the CO, or designated Contract Specialist in writing, within
           five working days after receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the CO modify the Contract accordingly.   Upon
           receiving such notification from the Contractor, the CO shall issue an appropriate  modification  to  the  Contract,  or  advise  the
           Contractor, in writing, that, the technical direction is within the scope of this clause and does not constitute a change  under  the
           “Changes” clause of this Contract.  The Contractor shall proceed immediately with the direction given.  A failure of the  parties  to
           agree upon the nature of the instruction or direction, or upon the action to be taken with respect thereto, shall be subject  to  the
           “disputes” clause at FAR 52.212-4(d).


      C-6.9 AS 4203 – Designation of Task Manager (TM) (MAY 2012)


           This contract requires the designation of a TM at the order level.  The CO will name the TM in the CO’s designation memorandum, which
           will specify the task(s) per order and the TMs associated authority, responsibilities, and limitations.


           The TM may not re-delegate the authority outlined in this clause, or the authority specified within his or her designation memorandum
           issued by the CO.


           The TM is responsible for assisting the contracting officer’s representative (COR) in the technical monitoring and administration  of
           the task(s) specified within the TM’s designations memorandum  through  performance  and  closeout.   For  example,  the  TM  may  be
           responsible for the following general duties per task(s):


              a) Monitoring the contractor’s technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the
                 COR changes in the task(s) requirements;
              b) Interpreting the statement of work (SOW), statement of objective (SOO), or performance  work  statement  (PWS),  and  any  other
                 technical performance requirements as it relates to his or her designated task(s);
              c) Performing technical evaluation of requirements as required;
              d) Performing technical inspections and acceptances of deliverables under the task(s);
              e) Assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance of the task(s);
              f) Reviewing invoices or vouchers to ensure they accurately reflect work completed per requirements of the task(s); and
              g) Completing a Contractor Performance Assessment Report (CPAR) within 30  days  after  electronic  notification  that  a  CPAR  is
                 required.


           The CO is the only person with authority to act as agent of the Government under this contract.  Only the CO has authority to:


              a) Direct or negotiate any changes in the SOW, SOO, or PWS;
              b) Modify or extend the period of performance;
              c) Change the delivery schedule;
              d) Authorize reimbursement to the Contractor for any costs incurred during the performance of this contract; or
              e) Otherwise, change any terms and conditions of this contract.


           At any time during performance of this contract, the CO may unilaterally remove or replace the TM.


           The CO will provide written notice, transmitted electronically as an attachment to an email, or through standard mail carrier, to the
           contractor, of such designation, or any change thereto, within a reasonable amount of time after award, or after  notification  of  a
           change is necessary.  The designation memorandum sets forth the specific authorities, responsibilities, and limitations of the TM for
           each associated task(s) under this contract.


           Performance of work under the specified tasks shall be subject to the technical direction of the TM.  The term “technical  direction”
           is defined to include, without limitation (except as specified in the TM designation memorandum), the following:


              a) Directions to the Contractor, on other than firm-fixed-price contracts, which redirect the contract effort, shift work  emphasis
                 between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to  accomplish  the
                 contractual SOW;
              b) Provisions of information to the Contractor, which assists in the  interpretation  of  drawings,  specifications,  or  technical
                 portions of the work description;
              c) Review and, where required by the task, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and technical information to be
                 delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract.


           Technical direction for the task(s) must be within the general scope of the SOW, SOO, or PWS stated in Addendum B of  this  contract.
           The TM does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical direction that affects price, quality, quantity,  delivery,  or
           other terms and conditions of the contract.


           All technical direction will be issued in writing by the TM, or shall be confirmed by the TM in  writing  within  five  working  days
           after issuance.


           The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the TM in the manner  prescribed  by
           this clause and within the COR’s, or TM’s authority under the provisions of this clause.


           If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the TM falls  outside  the  authority  of  the  TM,  the
           Contractor shall not proceed.  In this case, the Contractor shall notify the COR.  The COR will either resolve the issue, or  forward
           the issue to the CO or designated Contract Specialist for resolution per Section C-6.8.


      C-6.10      AS 4501 – Designation of Property Administrator and Listing of Government Property (Nov 2008)


           (a)   Designation of Property Administrator


                 <To be Completed After Award> is the property administrator for this contract.


                 <To be Completed After Award> is  responsible  for  coordinating  property  issues  with  the  Contracting  Officer’s  Technical
                 Representative (COR) and the Government’s Contracting Officer.


                 Direct questions and/or problems regarding the control of property to <To be Completed After Award> at <To  be  Completed  After
                 Award>.


                 Note:  The property administrator cannot obligate Government funds, execute modifications, or  otherwise  make  changes  to  the
                 contract.


           (b)   List of Government property to be furnished or acquired under this contract:


                 SSA will provide the Contractor with specific GFP and space for use during execution of Task Orders at no additional cost.   SSA
                 provides these items for Contractor Support located in the Annex Building or other designated office, such as  the  NCC,  Durham
                 Support Center or New NCC.  SSA excludes all other Contractor Support from utilizing GFP except where otherwise noted.  Under no
                 circumstances shall the Contractor remove equipment  from  Government-premises  except  where  otherwise  noted.   GFP  provided
                 includes:


                       • _1_      Room


                            Located in the Annex Building.


                       • _10_     Desk/Cubicles


                            Each Cubicle includes 1 desk and 1 chair, the cubicle size is approximately 8 feet by 8 feet.


                          • _10_  Standard Telephone – ASTRA A0674338 single line phone (includes service)

                       • _10_     Personal Computers (shared by multiple Contractors)


                            The computer models are HP 7600 thru HP 7900’s.  Includes Microsoft Windows  Vista  Operating  System,  plus  Office
                            Suite


                                  2. HP7600 Specs:
                                  Intel Pentium IV
                                  3.4 GHz Processor
                                  1 GB RAM
                                  80 GB Hard Drive


                               1  HP 7700 Specs:
                                  Intel Pentium D Dual Core
                                  1 GB RAM
                                  80 GB Hard Disk


                               4  HP 7800 Specs:
                                  Intel E6550 Dual Core
                                  2.33 GHz
                                  2 GB RAM
                                  160 GB Hard Disk


                               3  HP7900 Specs:
                                  Intel E8400 Duel Core
                                  3.0 GHz Processor
                                  2 GB RAM
                                  160 GB Hard Drive


                        • _10_    Computer Monitors, one Monitor per PC


                            19” HP Flat Screen Models HP LA1951g, LA1950g, Samsung 940be, and Futura CRT Monitor


                 SSA listed additional GFP provided to Contractor that the Contractor may remove Government premises during  performance  of  the
                 Task Order.  The purpose of SSA providing this equipment is to facilitate communication with  local  Contractor  support  during
                 outside of normal business hours.  Equipment  provided  includes  unique  configurations  to  maximize  secure  transmission  of
                 information.


                     • _2_   Laptop Computers


                            Dell Model E6500, Gateway Models M465, or Gateway Model M460.
                            Acquisition Value: ~$1000 each


                     • _2_   Microsoft Office Suite (Vista and Office)
                             Acquisition Value: ~$1,060 each


                     • _2_   Laptop Connectivity Software
                             Acquisition Value: ~$250 each

                     • _2__  Blackberry Model 8820 or 8700 (includes service)
                            Acquisition Value: ~$400 each

                 At all times SSA shall remain the owner of the Government furnished property.  The COR of  this  contract,  or  their  designee,
                 shall become the Custodial Officer of this property and subject to all the provisions of the appropriate SSA  policies  relating
                 to SSA property.


      C-6.11      AS 4502 – Government Telecommunications/ Systems, Services, and Equipment Provided Under the Contract (Nov 2008)


           (a)   Government telephone services are hereby made available for routine Contractor use under this contract.   The  Contractor  will
                 utilize its dedicated telephone system for all possible calls.  Infrequent  calls  by  Contractor  personnel  from  areas  where
                 Contractor telephone services are not available may  be  authorized  at  the  discretion  of  the  contracting  officer  or  the
                 contracting officer's technical representative.


           (b)   Contractors may use the SSA telephone system to conduct official business; i.e., if the call is necessary to  perform  the  SSA
                 contract.  Such official business calls may include emergency calls and calls which SSA determines are necessary in the interest
                 of performing the contract.


           (c)   The Government reserves the right to recover usage charges and fees associated with the use of the telephone services  provided
                 to the Contractor under this contract in the event the Contractor uses the provided service and equipment  for  other  than  the
                 purposes authorized in paragraph (a) and (b) of this clause.


      C-6.12      Insurance Requirements (Oct 2009)



              a) In accordance with the clause "Insurance -- Work on a Government Installation" (52.228-5, above), the Contractor shall maintain,
                 at his/her own expense, during the entire period of performance under this contract, the minimum insurance set forth below:


                 (1)   Worker's Compensation Insurance, or equivalent worker's compensation coverage, as required or prescribed by law, with  the
                       minimum employer liability limit of $100,000 for accidental bodily injury or death, or for occupational disease.


                 (2)   Comprehensive General Liability with a minimum limit of $500,000 per accident for bodily injury and $50,000  per  accident
                       for property damage.


                 (3)   Automobile Liability with a minimum of $200,000 per person and $500,000 per accident for bodily  injury  and  $50,000  per
                       accident for property damage.


           (b)   The Contractor shall file with the Contracting Officer, within ten (10) days after contract award, a certificate  of  insurance
                 evidencing the above coverage.


           (c)   The policies showing the required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or material change
                 adversely affecting the Government's interest shall not be effective (a) for such period as the laws of the state in  which  the
                 contract is to be performed prescribe or (b) until 30 days after the insurer or the  Contractor  gives  written  notice  to  the
                 Contracting Officer, whichever period is longer.  The Contractor warrants that such insurance coverage  for  all  Subcontractors
                 who will work on the premises does or will exist before such Subcontractor personnel enter the Government premises.





      C-6.13      Task Order Procedures



           During the period of performance of this contract, SSA will issue written Task Orders to the Contractor in accordance with the
           procedures as set forth herein.  SSA will award either Firm-Fixed Price (FFP) or FFP Level-of-Effort (LOE) Term-type Task Orders
           against this contract, based upon the rates established in Addendum B, Section 2.0 and Addendum D, Attachment 1, Pricing Table.


           The Contractor shall incur expenses under this contract only in the performance of Task Orders and revisions to Task Orders issued in
           accordance with the ordering procedures set forth herein.  The Contractor shall not incur expenses on Task Orders that are not in
           compliance with these ordering procedures or without the written authorization of a Contracting Officer.  SSA does not authorize any
           other expenses without the express written consent of the Contracting Officer.


           (a)   Task Orders under Functional Area 1 and 2


                 SSA may require performance of work under this contract on a FFP basis.  Functional Area 1 and 2, Security Assessments and
                 Penetration Tests, respectively, represent firm-fixed price work.  Written Task Orders for these services will indicate the
                 applicable CLIN; the SSA Major System; and the scope of the Security Assessment or Penetration Test, as applicable.  Only the
                 Contracting Officer has the authority to authorize these tasks.


                 For Penetration Tests only, following authorization by the Contracting Officer, the COR will coordinate with the Contractor to
                 draft the applicable ROE for each Penetration Test that the Contractor must follow, subject to written approval by the COR (see
                 Section 3.10 for ROE requirements).  A ROE is not required for Security Assessments.

           (b)   Task Orders under Functional Area 3 and 4


                 Depending on the scope of work, SSA may require performance of work under this contract on a FFP or FFP LOE basis.  Functional
                 Area 3 and 4, Policies and Procedures and Risk Management Framework Support, respectively, can include elements of both FFP and
                 FFP LOE.


                 FFP Task Orders


                 When placing Task Orders for work under Functional Area 3 or 4 that include FFP elements, SSA will first issue to the Contractor
                 a Request for Task Order Proposal (RFTOP) at least 45 days prior to issuing a Task Order.


                 The Contractor must provide its response in no more than 15 days from the date it receives the RFTOP.  The Contractor’s Task
                 Order Proposal (TOP) must include two sections:


                 Non-Price Section:


                 A Non-Price portion describes the solution proposed by the Contractor and that demonstrate that the Contractor understands the
                 technical requirements stated in the RFTOP.  The Non-Price Section must, at a minimum, address the following areas of concern:


                     • Requirements.  The TOP shall provide a narrative description of the Contractor's understanding of the purpose of the task
                       and the functions required to satisfy the requirements.


                     • Proposal Solution.  The TOP shall provide a narrative description of the Contractor's proposed solution, such as plans for
                       performance, technical approach, and any problem areas.  The solution shall describe how the Contractor will manage the
                       project to ensure project success and deliver products/services in accordance with stated schedules.


                     • Assumptions.  The TOP shall identify any assumptions on the Contractor's part used in developing the proposal.


                     • Milestones and Deliverables.  The TOP shall demonstrate understanding of SSA’s milestones and deliverables; schedules for
                       meeting those milestones and deliverables; and the Contractors agreement to SSA’s acceptance criteria for all
                       deliverables.


                     • Work Breakdown Structure.  The TOP shall provide a work breakdown structure using the contract’s existing CLINs that
                       clearly shows the resources that will be applied to each Task Order’s respective milestones/deliverables.  The Contractor
                       must identify all proposed subcontractor resources in the staffing schedule.  The work breakdown structure should not
                       include cost information.


                     • Travel Requirements.  The TOP shall include the applicable CLIN(s) related for travel, and details of how the Contractor
                       derived that CLIN from the requirements, if the RFTOP indicates that the Contractor must travel during the course of
                       performance.


                     • Risk Assessment.  The TOP shall provide a description of any risks inherent in the task and actions proposed to mitigate
                       those risks.


                     • Compliance Matrix. The TOP must present a Compliance Matrix that cross-references the stated requirements contained in the
                       RFTOP with specific portions of the Offeror’s quotation outlining the method(s) for meeting those requirements.


                 Price Section


                 A Price portion that identifies the Contractor’s proposed price to perform the work detailed in the RFTOP.  The Contractor shall
                 base its price on the contract’s existing labor rates.  The Contractor shall cross-reference its price section to the Work
                 Breakdown described in the Non-Price Section, and indicate all required labor categories, labor hour quantities, labor rates (as
                 well as any other costs (e.g., travel) required to complete the work required in the RFTOP.  Also, the Contractor must provide a
                 proposed payment structure based upon the milestones and deliverables identified in the RFTOP.


                 After receipt of the Contractor’s TOP, SSA will evaluate the methods and prices proposed to meet the Government’s requirements,
                 and will either: 1) issue a Task Order based on the Contractor’s TOP; or, 2) enter into discussions with the Contractor to
                 obtain clarifications or to negotiate changes.  If discussions occur, SSA will issue a Task Order upon mutual agreement of the
                 parties.  The Contractor must invoice in accordance with the payment schedule identified at the Task Order-level, and complete
                 work within the timeframes delineated in the Task Order’s deliverable schedule.


                 FFP LOE Task Orders


                 For a FFP LOE Type of Contract, the Contractor must provide the specified level of effort for the period of performance
                 specified in the Task Order.  SSA will not reimburse the Contractor for any work performed beyond the level of effort or period
                 of performance specified in the Task Order without written approval by the Contracting Officer.


                 The Task Order will include:


                     • Description of project;
                     • Proposed type of contract (i.e. Fixed Price Level of Effort);
                     • Statement of work;
                     • Period of performance;
                     • Level of Effort (including applicable CLIN(s));
                     • Funding for travel (if applicable); and
                     • Ceiling Price.


                 Only the Contracting Officer shall have authority to authorize these tasks.  The Contracting Officer must provide the Contractor
                 with a Task Order to purchase FFP LOE services under Functional Area 3 or 4 at least 30 days prior to the effective date of
                 those services required, unless the parties otherwise agree.


           (c)   Individuals Authorized to Place Orders

                 SSA authorizes Contracting Offices within the Office of Acquisition and Grants (OAG) to issue Delivery/Task Orders in accordance
                 with their authority, or as specifically authorized in the schedule.


Addendum D – Contract Documents, Exhibits, and Attachments



D-1   Attachment 1: Pricing Table


D-2   Attachment 2: List of SSA Major Applications


D-3   Attachment 3: Sample Rules of Engagement


D-4   Attachment 4: Definitions


D-5   Attachment 5: Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information


D-6   Attachment 6: Volume III Questionnaire


D-7   Attachment 7: Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan






Addendum E – Solicitation Provisions



E-1   FAR Provision 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (Feb 2012)


      In accordance with FAR 12.301 and 12.302, SSA incorporated the clause at FAR 52.212-1 by reference via Block 27a of the SF 1449.


E-2   Addendum to FAR Provision 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items (Feb 2012)



      In accordance with FAR 12.301 and 12.302, SSA hereby tailored the provision at FAR 52.212-1 by this addendum as follows:


      E-2.1 Format of Proposals


           This solicitation includes two Stages to increase administrative efficiency and evaluate only the  Offerors  that  have  the  highest
           possibility to receive an award.


           In the first stage, the Offeror must provide a Capabilities Statement pursuant to this section and Section 2.2 by the date  specified
           in Section 2.8.  After SSA reviews the Offeror’s Capabilities Statement (see Section 3.2), SSA will notify all Offerors that provided
           a Capabilities Statement with the Government’s determination of whether the Offeror received a “pass” or  “fail”  rating.   SSA  will
           provide all Offerors that receive a “pass” rating with a common cutoff date for receipt of proposals, or approximately 20-days  after
           notification.  Any Offerors that receive a “fail” rating shall not submit to SSA a Non-Price Evaluation Factors and Price Proposal.


           In the second stage, SSA will consider for award only Offerors that received a “pass”  rating  in  its  Capabilities  Statement  that
           submitted a Non-Price Evaluation Factors and Price Proposal (see Section 2.3 through 2.6).  SSA will evaluate those  proposals  using
           the procedures at Section 3.3 through 3.5.


           All Capabilities/Proposals submitted must include a cover letter, signed and dated by the Offeror, and which identifies the proposal,
           the Offeror, and the relevant solicitation number, as indicated below:

           Stage 1 - Capabilities
               • Capabilities Statement
                 (1 e-mail attachment)


           Stage 2 – Non-Price Evaluation Factors and Price Proposal


           All proposals must consist of three separate volumes, with each submitted on 1) a  separately  labeled  compact  disk;  2)  hardbound
           binder; and 3) electronic mail attachment:


               • Volume I – Business and Price Response
                 (2 hard copies, 2 electronic copies, 1 e-mail attachment)


               • Volume II – Technical Expertise
                 (5 hard copies, 2 electronic copies, 1 e-mail attachment)


               • Volume III – Relevant Experience and Past Performance Information
                 (5 hard copies, 2 electronic copies, 1 e-mail attachment)


           Each proposal volume must have a label.  The label must have the volume number, volume title, copy number (ex., Volume 1  –  Business
           and Price Response Copy 1), the Offeror’s corporate name, and the solicitation number listed.  All proposals submitted on CD-ROM must
           run on the software that is in use by the Government (i.e., Microsoft Office).   The  Government  considers  proposals  submitted  in
           software formats not readable by the Government, as unresponsive to the  solicitation  and  removed  from  consideration  for  award.
           Offerors must submit on CD-ROM all Microsoft compatible files (containing  embedded  graphical,  spreadsheet,  multimedia,  or  other
           objects) that comprise their proposal.  The Offeror must provide all embedded  object  files  in  their  native  formats.   Pages  of
           embedded object files count against the respective proposal volume page volume limits, detailed  below.   Oversized  pages,  such  as
           11”x17” pages, count as two pages each, against the proposal volume page  limits,  detailed  below.   The  Government  requires  that
           Offerors provide only the specific information requested in the solicitation.


           All page limits for proposal volumes require single side page printing, a font size of 12 point, use of single spacing,  and  a  one-
           inch page margin on all sides.  Offerors must employ font at a size no smaller than font size 12  for  their  proposals,  except  for
           headings, legends, and text associated with figures and tables.  Text for headings may be greater than font size 12 and use of a font
           other than Times New Roman is allowable.  Text for figures and tables may use a smaller font size (8 or 10 point  font  for  example)
           and use of a font other than Times New Roman is allowable, provided that all such fonts used in figures and tables  are  legible  and
           clear to the unaided eye.



      E.2-2 Capabilities Statement


           The Offeror must demonstrate, in four pages or less, that it has knowledge and experience in supporting Federal  security  assessment
           and authorization methodologies required by the Federal Risk Management Framework.  To do so, it must affirm  that  it  has  directly
           provided as a prime or subcontractor, the following services to the Federal Government:

              a) Prepared System Security Categorization reviews that adhere to National Institute of Standards  and  Technology  (NIST)  Special
                 Publication (SP) 800-60 and FIPS 199 guidelines and standards, respectively;


              b) Documented security authorization boundaries that fully satisfy the best practice  guidelines  of  NIST  Security  Management  &
                 Assurance, Federal Agency Security Practices, Boundary/Scope Memos;

              c) Selected security controls for assessment plans that adhere to NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 control baseline requirements and  take
                 into account potential necessary control tailoring, as explained in NIST SP 800-37 revision 1;

              d) Documented results of security control assessments with complete and  accurate  Security  Assessment  Reports,  identified  risk
                 levels for all identified vulnerabilities, and recommended corrective actions.  Documented results  must  have  fully  satisfied
                 assessment results reporting requirements of NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 and NIST SP 800-37 revision 1.

              e) Performed Federal  Independent  Verification  and  Validation  (IV&V)  assessments,  Federal  penetration  tests,  Federal  risk
                 assessments, Risk Management Framework support services, and proposed Federal information security policies and procedures.

           For (a) through (e), the Offeror must provide, in one or two paragraphs, support of the  Offeror’s  affirmation,  including  contract
           number performed under; Federal agency supported; dollar value of  contract;  date(s)  of  service;  project  title;  and  sufficient
           information to demonstrate that the Offeror performed each service.


           In addition, the Offeror must demonstrate that it meets the eligibility requirements for the North American  Industry  Classification
           System (NAICS) code and small business size standard for this acquisition.  The NAICS code and small business size standard for  this
           acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (see Addendum A).


      E-2.3 Volume I – Business and Price Response


           The Offeror’s Volume I Business and Price Response must include the following information herein:


              a) The Solicitation number;


              b) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of proposals;


              c) The name, address and telephone number of the Offeror;


              d) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address;

              e) Federal Tax Identification Number (TIN);


              f) Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS);

              g) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) at Addendum E, Section  4.0  for
                 those representations and certifications that the Offeror shall complete electronically);

              h) Completed copy of FAR 52.209-5 for Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters at Addendum E, Section 5.1;

              i) Completed copy of FAR 52.209-7 for Information Regarding Responsibility Matters at Addendum E, Section 5.2;

              j) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions,
                 and provisions included in the solicitations.  Offers that fail to furnish required representations or  information,  or  reject
                 the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.


              k) Joint Venture Agreements – Joint Venture Agreements are allowable on competitive 8(a) set-asides and must  be  received  by  the
                 Small Business Administration prior to the cost proposal due date and approved before award of a resulting contract.  If you are
                 contemplating a joint venture on this project, you must advise your assigned Business Opportunity Specialist (BOS)  as  soon  as
                 possible.  It is also recommended that the agreement be submitted as soon as practicable to ensure compliance  with  established
                 regulations.  Any corrections and/or changes needed can be made only when your BOS has  adequate  time  for  a  thorough  review
                 before the proposal due date.  NO CORRECTIONS AND/OR CHANGES ARE ALLOWED AFTER TIME OF SUBMISSION OF COST PROPOSAL;

              l) Completed Addendum B, Section 1.1(e), Contractor Project Manager;


              m) Completed Addendum D, Attachment 1, “Pricing Tables,” and any discount terms.  See instructions on completing the pricing  table
                 below:

                    1) The Offeror must complete all areas marked in green on Addendum D, Attachment 1, Pricing Tables, so that SSA can  evaluate
                       the Offeror’s proposal.  For each BPA year, the Offeror must complete the unit price field for each CLIN.


                    2) For SSA to consider the Offeror for award, all prices must be firm-fixed prices for  the  entire  term  of  the  contract.
                       Moreover, the Offeror must identify all solicited items in the RFP.  If there is no price associated with  the  item,  the
                       Offeror must enter N/C in the unit price column.  SSA will not pay for any item not identified on the pricing table or  in
                       the CLIN Breakdown, or more than the unit price identified in the Pricing Table.


                    3) In addition, for each section, the Offeror must identify the applicable section of its CLIN  Breakdown  for  each  section
                       under the “Applicable Section Covered” field.


                    4) SSA provided estimated quantities in the Pricing Table.  These  quantities  are  for  evaluation  purposes  only.   Actual
                       quantities and ordering timeframes may vary and SSA does not guarantee them.


                    5) Upon entering the Unit Price for each CLIN,  the  Pricing  Table  will  automatically  calculate  the  extended  price  by
                       multiplying the BPA year’s unit price by the contract year’s estimated quantity.


                    6) The Pricing Table will automatically sum the contract year’s price to find  the  total  evaluated  price  for  that  year.
                       Lastly, the Pricing Table will sum all contract years’ total evaluated  price  to  find  the  contract’s  total  evaluated
                       amount.

                    7) The Offeror may propose varying prices for each CLIN, depending on the quantities actually  ordered  and  the  dates  when
                       ordered.

              n) CLIN Breakdown.  See instructions on completing the CLIN Breakdown below:

                    1) For each CLIN, the Offeror must provide details on how it arrived at its unit prices.


                    2) In providing a price breakdown, the Offeror must identify all part numbers, description of the part numbers, the  quantity
                       for each part number, and unit price of each part number.  SSA provides  a  sample  format  for  the  Offeror  to  use  in
                       developing its pricing breakdown.


                       (Include a header)
                       Solicitation SSA-RFP-12-1036 – Independent Verification and Validation Contract
                       <#insert Offeror’s Name> Response – Dated <#insert Date of Submission>


                       (List for each section)
                       Price Breakdown, <#insert section number (i.e. Section 1: Program Management Support)>


                       (For each section, list for each CLIN)
                       CLIN <#insert CLIN (i.e. RA01)> - <#insert CLIN Description (i.e. High Complexity Risk Assessment)>


                       (For each CLIN, list for each labor rate used for that line item; if multiple rates, list those in succession)
                       Line Item: <#insert part number>
                       Description: <#insert part number Description in sufficient detail  for  SSA  to  determine  the  Offeror  understood  the
                            contract requirements and staffing requirements,  including  the  type(s)  of  labor  included  in  CLIN.   For  any
                            position(s) identified in the Description, identify the minimum credentials/certification requirements  the  Offeror
                            will use>
                       QTY: <#insert quantity in hours>
                       Unit Price: <#insert Unit Price part number
                       Extended Price: <#insert product of QTY and Unit Price>


                       (At the end of each CLIN breakdown, include a summary)
                       Summary: <#include Summary Explanation>


                       (For each page, include a footer)
                       Page <#insert Page Number> of <#insert Number of Pages>


                    3) For the Offeror’s Summary Explanation, the Offeror must include adequate details describing how the  breakdown  will  meet
                       SSA’s requirement for that line item so that SSA can determine whether the Offeror’s breakdown is realistic.  The  Offeror
                       should include in this section any assumptions, limitations, or constraints, if applicable.  SSA will incorporate the CLIN
                       Breakdown in the contract.


      E-2.4 Volume II - Technical Expertise


           The Offeror’s Technical Expertise section must thoroughly describe, in a maximum of 60 pages and  in  narrative  form,  the  solution
           proposed by the Offeror, and must be sufficiently specific, detailed, and complete to clearly and  fully  demonstrate  the  technical
           expertise the Offeror will employ to meet all of the requirements of Addendum B and the Statement of Work (SOW) included therein.  It
           must provide details on any external dependencies, assumptions, and/or other performance or functional limitations of  the  solution.
           Merely restating the requirements, or “parroting” is not acceptable.  Offerors must show that they understand the  objectives  stated
           in the SOW.

           At a minimum, the Offeror must demonstrate that its Key Personnel have the following industry knowledge:


               • SSA and US Government Information Security policy
               • National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Information Security guidelines
               • Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates and guidance
               • Privacy and security policies
               • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) requirements
               • Homeland Security Presidential Directives
               • General Information Security industry standards and best practices
               • Requirements Analysis and Development
               • Security Policies and Procedures
               • Project Resource Guide (PRIDE)
               • Risk Management Framework

           Offerors must provide personnel qualifications criteria that all proposed Key Personnel will satisfy.   The  Offeror’s  key-personnel
           qualification criteria must include descriptions of the roles and responsibilities, as well as resumes of the proposed Key Personnel.
            Key Personnel refer to those occupying the roles of Project Manager and Penetration Test Manager identified in Addendum  B,  Section
           3.11.  The Project Manager and the Penetration Test Manager must satisfy the qualifications requirements of  a  Project  Manager  and
           Subject Matter Expert, respectively, as defined in Addendum D, Attachment 4.  The key personnel resumes  provided  must  sufficiently
           detail and demonstrate the experience, vocational backgrounds, relevant experience,  and  qualifications/certifications  of  the  key
           personnel to perform all Functional Areas.

           Resumes for key personnel must include the following information:


               • Personal Information


               • Name (including maiden name and/or frequently used alias(es), if applicable).

               • Proposed Position(s)
                     o List position(s) by labor category, which includes position and level, as described in Addendum D, Attachment 4.


               • Present Position
                     o Company and title of position.
                     o Date of employment:                    to present.
                     o Number and type of personnel supervised (e.g., technical staff, including; Project Manager,  Quality  Control  Specialist,
                       Analyst, Engineer, Subject Matter Expert, etc.).
                     o Brief description of duties and responsibilities,  including  supervisory  (if  applicable)  and/or  technical  experience
                       equivalent to the experience described in Addendum D, Attachment 4.  If the proposed individual has  participated  in  the
                       projects referenced in the Offeror’s  Corporate  Experience  references,  cite  the  experience  gained  on  the  specific
                       project(s), including start and completion dates for the project, the individual's role in the  project,  and  summary  of
                       experience.
                     o Immediate supervisor (name and title) and telephone number (including area code).
                     o List all (ISC)2 and other industry certifications presently held (e.g. CISSP, CAP, etc.).
                     o Skills utilized - specify the experience and skills utilized in the present position including a description  of  how  the
                       person used each skill and the length of time used.


      E-2.5 Volume III.A – Relevant Experience Information


           Experience: Experience is the opportunity to learn by doing and previous opportunities indicate the breadth, depth, and relevance  of
           a company’s abilities.  SSA has approximately 1,500 offices located in CONUS and OCONUS.  To determine this, SSA intends  to  make  a
           subjective assessment of the ability of the Offeror based on their experiences with similar requirements.  The ability of the Offeror
           to perform this requirement correlates to the degree of risk for non-performance.  The Offeror must provide a list of contracts  that
           it has worked on within the last five years of similar breadth, depth, and relevance to  this  solicitation,  and  must  include  the
           following:


               • Company or Agency name;
               • Contract Number and Date of Award;
               • Short description of task order or support services performed;
               • Number of task orders or support services performed per year of the contract;
               • The area of coverage provided for support services (example: Nationwide coverage);
               • Describe the work assignments, activities, and functions performed which were/are similar to the major work requirements as  set
                 forth in Addendum B to this solicitation;
               • Demonstrate the extent and degree that this experience represents a similar combination of  work  assignments,  activities,  and
                 functions involving similar degrees of difficulty in the work performed under Addendum B to this solicitation;
               • Any other relevant information.


           The Offeror must include enough information so that SSA may verify the information (i.e., point of contact and telephone number), and
           sufficiently describe how the experience is relevant  to  the  requirements  of  this  Solicitation.   The  contracts  and  reference
           information that the Offeror submits under this section must include the same customer references indicated in  Addendum  E,  Section
           2.6 below.


      E-2.6 Volume III.B - Past Performance Information


           The Offeror must submit three recent customer references (no older than  five  years  for  Past  Performance)  that  demonstrate  the
           Offeror’s relevant past performance.  Such experience must be similar to the requirements of this RFP in terms Information  Assurance
           Support Services, and the geographic scope of service (CONUS and OCONUS).  Additionally,  the  Offeror,  including  teaming  partners
           and/or proposed Subcontractors, must have had experience supporting and performing Independent Verification  and  Validation  (IV&V),
           Penetration Testing, and drafting of Information Assurance policies and procedures at Federal agencies  charged  with  protection  of
           large volumes of relevant sensitive information.  Examples of relevant sensitive include information covered by the  Privacy  Act  of
           1974, Federal tax information, and/or personal health information.


           Past Performance: Past performance is a measure of how well a company performed under previous opportunities.  SSA intends to make  a
           subjective assessment of how well the Offeror has performed in the past on  similar  contracts  identified  by  the  Offeror  in  the
           experience section.


           References: The Offeror must arrange for its references to submit completed Questionnaires to SSA (see  Addendum  D,  Attachment  6).
           The Offeror must arrange for its references to complete these forms, and then have the references submit the  responses  directly  to
           the Contracting Officer by e-mail to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov by July 20, 2012,  at  5:00  p.m.  EST.   SSA  will  not  accept  any
           references submitted through the Contractor.


           If the Offeror proposes a Subcontractor to perform  any  requirement  in  this  RFP,  it  must  provide  three  references  for  that
           Subcontractor.


           SSA reserves the right to contact the references in order to validate or supplement information provided in the Questionnaires.   SSA
           reserves the right to make only two attempts to contact any given citation/reference (i.e., an  initial  attempt  and  one  follow-up
           attempt should the initial attempt be unsuccessful for any reason).  In the event that both attempts are unsuccessful, SSA will  rate
           the Offeror’s past performance for that particular reference as neutral (see Addendum E, Section 3.3.2 for further details).


           Therefore, it is incumbent upon the Offeror to ensure that the appropriate points-of-contact for all references are accurate and that
           the Offeror notifies its references that SSA may contact them regarding this RFP.  Failure  to  provide  sufficient  information  may
           result in SSA considering the Offeror as neutral for that reference.


           The Offeror may also submit letters of commendation and/or evaluations of performance in trade journals, newspaper, periodicals, etc.
           for any reference.


           Note: The Offeror is responsible for verifying and ensuring that the information provided in support  of  its  cited/referenced  past
           performance is complete, comprehensive, accurate, and current as of the month of issuance of attempts to contact a relevant reference
           for obtaining past performance information.  Offerors should contact all  references  provided  and  encourage  timely  and  complete
           responses to the Government’s inquiries.


           SSA advises Offerors that the Government may obtain past performance and experience information  from  other  sources  known  to  the
           Government; and, therefore, the Government may evaluate information from such other sources, even though the Offeror does not include
           such information in its proposal.  Nevertheless, in evaluating the Offeror's past performance and experience, the Government  intends
           to rely heavily (though not necessarily exclusively) upon the information furnished by  the  Offeror  in  its  Past  Performance  and
           Experience Information.  Therefore, the Offeror is responsible for verifying and ensuring that the information provided in support of
           its cited/referenced past performance and experience is complete, comprehensive, accurate, and current as of the month of issuance of
           this solicitation.



      E-2.7 Inquiries


           The Offeror must submit all inquiries concerning the Solicitation by email to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov no later than June 21, 2012,
           at 5:00 p.m. EST.


           SSA will provide answers to questions to all Offerors, giving due  regard  to  the  proper  protection  of  proprietary  information.
           Offerors must contact only the Contract Specialist in connection with any  aspect  of  this  requirement  prior  to  contract  award.
           Contacting other SSA personnel regarding this solicitation in an attempt to gain  procurement-sensitive  information  may  result  in
           disqualification from the evaluation process.


           For all Offerors within Stage 2, SSA may provide additional time for Offerors to submit inquiries concerning the  Solicitation.   SSA
           will provide additional information upon the commencement of Stage 2.


      E-2.8 Response Due Date



           The Offeror must submit all responses, as well as any other information required by the RFP as part  of  Stage  1  (see  Addendum  E,
           Section 2.2), by June 27, 2012, at 5:00 p.m. EST.  For Stage 1, the Offer must send electronic versions of its Capabilities Statement
           via e-mail to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov

           For all information required as part of Stage 2 (see Addendum E, Section 2.3 through 2.6), the Offeror must submit all responses,  as
           well as any other information required by the RFP by no later than 20-days after SSA notifies the Offeror to provide the  information
           required under Stage 2.  The Offeror must deliver hardcopies and electronic copies of its proposal to:


                 Social Security Administration
                 Office of Acquisition and Grants
                 ATTN: Christopher Mettee
                 7111 Security Boulevard
                 1st Floor, Rear Entrance
                 Baltimore, MD 21244-1811


           The Offeror must send electronic versions of its proposal via e-mail to Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov.


           For all electronic copies, the Offeror must compress all copies into a single  file  that  is  capable  of  extraction  using  WinZip
           software version 11.0.  If the file is too large for transmission via electronic mail (SSA’s limitation is 10 megabytes), the Offeror
           may submit multiple compressed files.


      E-2.9 Period for Acceptance of Offers



           The Offeror agrees to hold the prices in its proposal firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for  receipt  of  proposals,
           unless SSA specifies another time in an amendment to the solicitation.



      E-2.10      Multiple Awards



           SSA may accept any item or group of items on a proposal, unless the Offeror qualifies the proposal by  specific  limitations.   SSA’s
           intent with this requirement is to establish a single source for IV&V support.  Therefore, unless SSA determines  that  the  possible
           cost savings will far exceed the administrative effort in having multiple support contracts, SSA intends to award a  single  contract
           from this Solicitation.


           Offerors may not submit an offer for quantities less than the evaluated quantities specified in the RFP.











E-3   FAR Provision 52.212-2, Evaluation – Commercial Items (Jan 1999)



      E-3.1 General


           SSA intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to  the  responsible  Offeror  whose  proposal,  conforming  to  the
           solicitation, will be most advantageous to SSA in terms of price and other factors considered.


           For administrative efficiency, SSA developed a two-stage evaluation strategy to consider only 8(a) firms that  have  specialized  and
           verifiable experience in providing IV&V services to the Federal Government relating to  information  security.   SSA  identified  the
           stages below:


                 Stage 1: SSA will evaluate the Offeror’s Capabilities to provide IV&V services  related  to  Information  Security  as  a  prime
                 contractor to the Federal Government, on a pass/fail basis.  SSA will evaluate Offerors that receive a pass rating further under
                 Stage 2.


                 Stage 2: SSA will evaluate the Offeror’s proposed Volume I through Volume III  independently  on  both  a  non-price  (technical
                 expertise and past performance/relevant experience) and price factors  basis.   Upon  completion  of  the  non-price  and  price
                 evaluations, the Government will also consider the interrelationships of the non-price and price factors  within  each  proposal
                 based upon the best value methodology described in Section 3.5 of this Addendum.


      E-3.2 Stage 1: Capabilities


           SSA will evaluate the Offeror’s Capabilities Statement on a pass/fail basis.  An Offeror will  only  receive  a  pass  rating  if  it
           demonstrated that it performed the following:

              a) Preparation of System Security Categorization reviews that adhere to National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology  (NIST)
                 Special Publication (SP) 800-60 and FIPS 199 guidelines and standards, respectively;
              b) Documenting security authorization boundaries that fully satisfy the best practice guidelines  of  NIST  Security  Management  &
                 Assurance, Federal Agency Security Practices, Boundary/Scope Memos;


              c) Selection of security controls for assessment plans that adhere to NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 control baseline  requirements  and
                 take into account potential necessary control tailoring, as explained in NIST SP 800-37 revision 1;

              d) Documenting results of security control assessments with complete and accurate  Security  Assessment  Reports,  identified  risk
                 levels for all identified vulnerabilities, and recommended corrective actions.  Documented results  must  have  fully  satisfied
                 assessment results reporting requirements of NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 and NIST SP 800-37 revision 1.

              e) Performing Federal Independent  Verification  and  Validation  (IV&V)  assessments,  Federal  penetration  tests,  Federal  risk
                 assessments, Risk Management Framework support services, and proposing Federal information security policies and procedures.

           SSA will rate any Offeror with a “pass” rating that was able to follow directions and respond completely with sufficient  information
           to determine affirmative capabilities to perform on this requirement


           If the Offeror receives a “fail” rating for its Capabilities, SSA will provide no further  consideration  of  the  Offeror.   If  the
           Offeror receives a “pass” rating for its Capabilities, SSA will consider the Offeror further  under  Stage  2:  Non-Price  Evaluation
           Factors and Price identified in Addendum E, Section 3.3 and 3.4, respectfully.  SSA will notify all Offerors that  receive  a  “pass”
           rating by e-mail to request the additional details identified in Stage 2.  SSA will notify any Offeror that receives a “fail”  rating
           that it is excluded from the competition.


      E-3.3 Stage 2: Non- Price Evaluation Factors


           The non-price evaluations of proposals utilize the stated evaluation criteria using the methodology detailed herein.   The  Offeror’s
           proposal must demonstrate that the Offeror understands the objectives stated in the Statement of Work and the proposal should include
           a logical program for achieving those objectives.   Offerors  that  merely  propose  to  provide  services  in  accordance  with  the
           solicitation document, or that only claim to have  experience  in  providing  such  services  without  providing  evidence  of  their
           experience, will not be eligible for award.  To be eligible for award consideration, Offeror proposals must include  a  comprehensive
           plan for meeting the needs of SSA, addressing each of the requirements  of  the  RFP,  and  explaining  the  proposed  technical  and
           managerial approaches.


           The following are factors for non-price evaluations of proposals, listed in descending order of importance:


               • Relevant Experience
               • Past Performance
               • Technical Expertise


           3.3.1    Relevant Experience

                 Experience, as an evaluation factor, consists of demonstrated corporate experience.  SSA will conduct a review of the  Offeror’s
                 corporate experience performing contracts containing requirements similar in size, scope,  and  complexity  to  the  requirement
                 contained in this solicitation.  The Offeror’s corporate experience  documentation  should  substantiate  its  proven  corporate
                 experience.  This includes specific examples of contracts that the Offeror performed  that  are  similar  in  size,  scope,  and
                 complexity.


                 In addition to reviewing the Offeror’s experience information submitted by its references,  SSA  will  base  its  evaluation  of
                 experience upon the content, completeness, and thoroughness of the experience data submitted  by  the  Offeror.   Moreover,  the
                 Offeror must demonstrate expertise through knowledge and practical experience in  supporting  Federal  security  assessment  and
                 authorization methodologies that demonstrate compliance with the  Federal  Risk  Management  Framework,  including  (ordered  by
                 decreasing importance below, most important experience first):


                    a) Preparation of System Security Categorization reviews that adhere to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
                       Special Publication (SP) 800-60 and FIPS 199 guidelines and standards, respectively;


                    b) Documenting security authorization boundaries that fully satisfy the best practice guidelines of NIST Security  Management
                       & Assurance, Federal Agency Security Practices, Boundary/Scope Memos;


                    c) Selection of security controls for assessment plans that adhere to NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 control baseline requirements
                       and take into account potential necessary control tailoring, as explained in NIST SP 800-37 revision 1;


                    d) Documenting results of security control assessments with complete and accurate  Security  Assessment  Reports,  identified
                       risk levels for all identified vulnerabilities, and recommended corrective actions.  Documented results  must  have  fully
                       satisfied assessment results reporting requirements of NIST SP 800-53 revision 3 and NIST SP 800-37 revision 1;


                    e) Performing Federal Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) assessments, Federal  penetration  tests,  Federal  risk
                       assessments, Risk Management  Framework  support  services,  and  proposing  Federal  information  security  policies  and
                       procedures at Federal agencies charged with an important part of core  mission  involved  with  the  protection  of  large
                       volumes of sensitive information, such as information covered by the Privacy Act of 1974, Federal tax information,  and/or
                       personal health information.


                 SSA will use the following criteria to evaluate Experience, as follows:


                       Excellent – The references and other information cited by the Offeror indicate  personnel  experience  and  past  relevant
                       corporate experience that is extremely similar, in terms of size and scope,  to  these  requirements.   This  indicates  a
                       strong likelihood that the Offeror has the capability to successfully perform the requirements as  stated  herein.   There
                       are no issues or problems.


                       Good – The references and other information cited by the Offeror indicate personnel experience and past relevant corporate
                       experience that is very similar, in terms of size and scope, to these requirements.  This indicates a better than  average
                       likelihood that the Offeror has the capability to successfully perform the requirements as stated herein.  Issues/problems
                       are slight and do not impact achievement of the contract requirements.


                       Fair – The references and other information cited by the Offeror indicate personnel experience and past relevant corporate
                       experience that is slightly similar, in terms of size and scope, to these requirements.  This indicates that  the  Offeror
                       barely has the capability to successfully perform the requirements as stated herein.  Issues/problems require major agency
                       resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements.


                       Poor – The references and other information cited by the Offeror indicate personnel experience and past relevant corporate
                       experience that is neither similar nor relevant, in terms of size and scope, to these requirements.  This  indicates  that
                       the Offeror does not have the capability to  perform  the  requirements  as  stated  herein.   Issues/problems  compromise
                       achievement of contract requirements.

           3.3.2 Past Performance

                 As specified in Addendum E, Section 2.5, each Offeror must provide past performance references for existing and prior  contracts
                 for similar services.  Past performance is a measure of how well an Offeror satisfied its customers and conducted business in an
                 ethical manner.  SSA will use the past performance information  submitted  to  assess  the  Offeror’s  quality  of  product  and
                 services, business relations, nature of past performance, schedule, cost control, and management of key personnel.


                 The Government will evaluate the quality of the Offeror’s past performance and determine each Offeror’s probability of  contract
                 success based upon this record of past performance.  SSA will use its assessment of the Offeror’s past performance as a means of
                 evaluating the relative capability of one Offeror to other Offerors.  If the Offeror intends to  use  Subcontractors,  SSA  will
                 evaluate the past performance of those Subcontractors, as well, but will place more  weight  on  the  past  performance  of  the
                 Offeror.


                 Evaluation of past performance is a subjective assessment based upon consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances.  SSA
                 is seeking to determine whether an Offeror has consistently demonstrated  a  commitment  to  customer  satisfaction  and  timely
                 delivery of product and services.  The Government will consider the following sub-factors in  the  evaluation  of  Offeror  Past
                 Performance (ordered by decreasing importance below, most important first):


                     • Quality of Product/Service
                     • Business Relations
                     • Schedule
                     • Cost Control
                     • Management of Key Personnel


                 Quality of Product and Service: Deliverables met contractual requirements.  Identified issues with  required  deliverables  were
                 always satisfactorily resolved.   Offeror  recommended  and  demonstrated  ability  to  apply  improvements  to  the  customer’s
                 information security program that elevated the level  of  implemented  security  controls,  thereby  improving  confidentiality,
                 integrity, and availability assurances.


                 Business Relations: Working relationship between customer  organization  and  Offeror  was  positive  to  the  extent  resulting
                 performance met contractual requirements, Offeror recognized importance of effective communication and facilitated task meetings
                 with customer organization to incorporate feedback into  deliverables,  ensure  tasks  remained  on  schedule,  and  contractual
                 milestone dates were met.  Offeror regularly interacted with customer organization to identify issues  and  raise  awareness  of
                 task status.  Offeror collaborated with customer  organization,  providing  solutions  to  resolve  issues  that  threatened  to
                 negatively affect the tasks.


                 Schedule: The extent to which deliverables are submitted in the prescribed format and media, demonstrating version  control  and
                 comment resolution, appropriately protected (based on data sensitivity), and made  available  at  defined  time  and  place,  as
                 defined in the contract.


                 Cost Control: Invoices requested funds consistent with work performed, and did  not  exceed  awarded  funding  ceiling.   Travel
                 expenses did not exceed those permissible under the contract.  Costs incurred for services delivered were  reasonable.   Applied
                 skill set, labor categories, and number of resources needed by contractor to accomplish the IV&V services, penetration  testing,
                 risk assessments, and to propose information assurance policies and procedures was appropriate.


                 Management of Key Personnel: Offeror provided personnel with a full understanding of  the  customer  operating  environment  and
                 Federal information security assessment and authorization requirements.  Whenever key personnel changes  occurred,  replacements
                 possessed necessary qualifications satisfying contract requirements, and Offeror integrated  new  staff  into  project  team  in
                 fashion that allowed seamless continuation of schedule.  Contractor staff possessed industry recognized professional information
                 security credentials to adequately address Federal information security requirements as prescribed by Office of  Management  and
                 Budget, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and customer published policies.


                 SSA will use the following criteria to evaluate Past Performance, as follows:


                       Excellent – Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires and other information available to SSA indicates
                       that the Offeror has performed other contracts of a similar scope and size to these requirements with a performance rating
                       that is entirely favorable.  This indicates a strong likelihood that the Offeror will provide a  high  level  of  service.
                       There are no issues or problems.


                       Good – Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires and other information available to SSA indicates that
                       the Offeror has performed other contracts of a similar scope and size to these requirements with a performance rating that
                       is more favorable than unfavorable.  This indicates a better than average likelihood that the Offeror will provide a  high
                       level of service.  Issues/problems are slight and do not impact achievement of the contract requirements.


                       Neutral – There are three possible situations for this rating:


                       There is no record of past performance.  The Reference has no direct knowledge of the rated support and is, therefore, not
                       able to provide an objective evaluation.


                       Reference did not respond to the inquiry for information.


                       Past performance references cited by the Offeror is not relevant to the stated requirements.


                       NOTE: In the case of a Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for a Offeror where  information  on  past
                       performance is unavailable, SSA may not evaluate the Offeror favorably or unfavorably on past performance.


                       Fair – Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires and other information available to SSA indicates that
                       the Offeror has an average past performance record and that the Offeror will provide neither a good nor a bad  quality  of
                       service.  There are issues/problems, but they do not compromise achievement of the contract requirements.


                       Poor – Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires and other information available to SSA indicates that
                       the Offeror has an unsatisfactory past performance record and that the Offeror will not likely provide a high  quality  of
                       service.  Issues/problems compromise achievement of the contract requirements.

           3.3.3 Technical Expertise

                 The Government’s subjective evaluation of the Offeror’s technical expertise and management capabilities focus on the information
                 provided in the Offeror’s  proposal.   In  reviewing  the  Offeror’s  response,  the  Government  will  focus  on  completeness,
                 consistency, and the detail that the Offeror provided in response to each requirement in Addendum B.


                 In addition, the Government will evaluate the Key Personnel resumes for consistency, completeness, and accuracy to determine its
                 likelihood for successfully providing the services described in Addendum B, Section  3,  of  the  solicitation.   Key  Personnel
                 refers to those occupying the roles of Project Manager and Penetration Test Manager.  Penetration Test Manager must satisfy  the
                 qualifications requirements of a Subject Matter Expert as defined in Addendum  D,  Attachment  4,  of  the  solicitation.   This
                 portion of the evaluation includes:

                     • The Offeror’s relevant Key Personnel qualifications information  must  thoroughly  describe  the  skills,  abilities,  and
                       experiences of the proposed Key Personnel.  The evaluation of Key Personnel focuses  on  the  content,  completeness,  and
                       thoroughness of the data submitted, as well as the relevance of the skills, abilities, and experience of the person, as it
                       relates to the role performed in meeting the requirements of the solicitation.

                     • Resumes for the proposed Key Personnel consist of key personnel, as described in Addendum D  of  this  solicitation.   Key
                       personnel resume evaluations will cover:


                          o Extent to which the resume satisfies the certification and experience requirements as proposed for the  position  in
                            Addendum D, Attachment 4, of this solicitation.


                          o Extent to which the experience described in the resume is similar to the proposed role/position for this contract.

                          o Extent to which the experience in management of multi-task projects described in the resume is similar  to  proposed
                            role/position for this contract as described in Addendum B, Section 3, of this solicitation.


                          o Extent to which the length and type of employment and level of commitment  by  individual  indicates  a  potentially
                            successful ability to manage the contract, obtain needed resources, etc.


                          o Extent to which the experience shown on the resume is for experience obtained on similar work efforts (size,  scope,
                            functionality, and contract type) as this project/contract.


                 SSA will use the below criteria to evaluate each of the Offeror’s Technical Expertise:


                 Excellent – The Key Personnel information clearly demonstrates how the Offeror has sufficient staff with the required skills and
                 experience necessary to fulfill SSA’s requirements.  This includes staff for headquarters as well as remote personnel to address
                 remote IV&V and Penetration Testing requirements.  The Offeror’s technical response clearly explained its  plan  to  meet  SSA’s
                 requirements, and did not take exception to any part of the RFP.


                 Good – The Key Personnel information demonstrates how the Offeror has staff with the required skills and experience necessary to
                 fulfill SSA’s requirements.  This includes staff for headquarters as well  as  remote  personnel  to  address  remote  IV&V  and
                 Penetration Testing requirements.  The Offeror’s technical response explained its plan to meet SSA’s requirements, and  did  not
                 take exception to any part of the RFP.


                 Fair – The Key Personnel information somewhat demonstrates how the Offeror has staff with the  required  skills  and  experience
                 necessary to fulfill SSA’s requirements.  This includes staff for headquarters as well as remote  personnel  to  address  remote
                 IV&V and Penetration Testing requirements.  The  Offeror’s  technical  response  somewhat  explained  its  plan  to  meet  SSA’s
                 requirements, and did not take exception to any part of the RFP.


                 Poor – The Key Personnel information vaguely demonstrates how the Offeror has staff with  the  required  skills  and  experience
                 necessary to fulfill SSA’s requirements.  This includes staff for headquarters as well as remote  personnel  to  address  remote
                 IV&V and Penetration Testing requirements.   The  Offeror’s  technical  response  vaguely  explained  its  plan  to  meet  SSA’s
                 requirements, and did not take exception to any part of the RFP.


                 Unacceptable – The proposal fails to address any specified performance or capability requirements.  The Offeror  took  exception
                 to any part of the RFP.  Proposals with this rating will not be eligible for award.

            2.3.4      Section 508 Requirements


                 While SSA determined that this acquisition is exempt from the requirements of Section 508 of the  Rehabilitation  Act  of  1973,
                 Section 508 requirements for documentation deliverables at Addendum B, Section 3.12 apply.  Since  the  Offeror  will  not  have
                 submitted documentation until after award, Section 508 will not be part of the evaluation process.


      E-3.4 Stage 2: Price Evaluation Factors


           The price evaluation of proposals consists of a price analysis where  SSA  will  compare  prices  to  any  (or  combination)  of  the
           following: (1) all other proposed prices, (2) current market prices, (3) current similar Government and commercial  contract  prices,
           (4) independent Government cost estimate(s), and (5) prices set by law and regulation.  SSA will analyze price proposals to determine
           whether:


               • All prices represent fixed prices for all contract years;


               • Offeror thoroughly and accurately completed the pricing tables;


               • Proposed prices are mathematically and/or materially balanced;


               • Proposed prices are fair and reasonable; and


               • Proposed prices are realistic.

           Competition and the comparison of prices proposed in responses to this Solicitation is  the  primary  means  that  SSA  will  use  to
           determine the “fairness and reasonableness” of proposed prices.


           The following are factors for price evaluations of proposals:


               • Overall Price
               • Price Realism


           (a)   Overall Price


                 SSA will evaluate proposals for award purposes by multiplying the Offeror’s unit prices by evaluated quantities, and adding  the
                 total price for each Contact Year to calculate the total evaluated amount.  Evaluated quantities  are  for  evaluation  purposes
                 only.  Actual quantities and ordering timeframes may vary and SSA does not guarantee them.  After calculating  the  total  order
                 amount for each proposal, SSA will rank proposals from lowest priced to highest priced, favoring the lowest priced responses.


           (b)   Price Realism


                 The Government will evaluate the Offeror’s proposed prices for realism to determine if they are consistent  with  the  Offeror’s
                 technical proposal, reflect a clear understanding of the Government’s  requirements,  and  are  consistent  with  the  Offeror’s
                 standard commercial practice in providing the services described in the solicitation.  This price realism  analysis  will  allow
                 the Government to assess any potential price/cost risk factors in proposals that may bear on the Offeror’s understanding of  the
                 requirements and the means proposed to meet the requirements.


                 Offerors must be aware of the duration of performance periods and the potential effect of the periods’ duration on their overall
                 price when submitting their proposals.  Offerors must ensure  that  their  proposed  prices  are  accurate,  fully  loaded,  and
                 materially balanced.  SSA may deem  proposals  that  are  unrealistic  in  terms  of  technical  and  management  commitment  or
                 unrealistically low in price reflective of an inherent lack of management and technical competence or indicative of  failure  to
                 comprehend the complexity and risk of the contract requirements.

           (c)   Evaluation of Price Factors


                 SSA will base the adjectival rating of an Offeror’s proposed prices on the price analysis described above.   SSA  will  consider
                 any identified risks to the Government in its evaluation of Offeror’s proposed prices.  In addition to ranking each proposal  in
                 ascending order by price, SSA will assign each proposal one of the following three adjectival ratings:


                 Low Risk – Few, if any, price risks identified.  SSA determined that any  identified  risks  have  a  low  potential  effect  or
                 consequence.  This rating indicates a high level of confidence that the Offeror can fully accomplish the requirements stated  in
                 the Solicitation at the proposed prices.


                 Moderate Risk – Price risks identified.  SSA determined that identified indicates a reasonable  level  of  confidence  that  the
                 Offeror can fully accomplish the requirements stated in the Solicitation at the proposed prices.


                 High Risk – Price risks identified.  SSA determined that either identified  risks,  independently  or  in  combination,  have  a
                 serious potential effect or consequence.  This rating indicates significant doubts that the Offeror  can  fully  accomplish  the
                 requirements stated in the Solicitation at the proposed prices.



      E-3.5 Determination of Best Value



           The Government anticipates awarding a single contract from this solicitation.  The Government will conduct a  “best  value”  tradeoff
           comparison, focusing on the differences in non-price factors and evaluated prices between the Offerors, in order to  determine  which
           Offeror’s proposal represents the best value to the Government.


           In comparing proposals with different evaluation ratings, the Source Selection Authority will make an informed,  fair,  and  reasoned
           business decision, but will neither attempt to assign numerical values to subjective evaluation factors and/or ratings,  nor  achieve
           mathematical precision in his or her judgments.


           The Government will only make an award to the responsible Offeror(s) whose proposals provide the “best value” to the Government.  Non-
           price evaluation factors combined are significantly more important than price; however the closer the non-price evaluation ratings of
           the various proposals are to one another, the more important price considerations become in determining the overall  best  value  for
           the Government.  Thus, the Government’s best value decision may result in an award to other than the lowest priced  Offeror,  or  the
           Offeror with the highest non-price evaluation ratings.  In deciding which proposal(s) to select, the Government  will  be  averse  to
           risk.  Proposals rated “Unacceptable” for any one subfactor under Technical Approach will not be eligible for award.

           A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful  Offeror  within  the  time  for
           acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either  party.   Before  the  offer’s
           specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after  its
           receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.


E-4   FAR Provision 52.212-3 – Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items (Apr 2012)


      An Offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the Offeror has completed the annual representations  and  certifications
      electronically  via  https://www.acquisition.gov.   If  an  Offeror  has  not  completed  the  annual  representations  and  certifications
      electronically at the ORCA website, the Offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision.


      (a)   Definitions.  As used in this provision—


           “Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least  51  percent
           directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women
           who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part  127.   It  automatically
           qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.


           “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—


           (1)   Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and  for  which  the  worker
                 does not offer himself voluntarily; or


           (2)   Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by  process  or
                 penalties.
                 “Inverted domestic corporation”, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated  as  an  inverted
                 domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be
                 a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is
                 incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance  with  the  rules
                 and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined  does  not  meet  the  definition  of  an
                 inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874.


           “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—


           (1)   FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;


           (2)   Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;


           (3)   FSG 88, Live Animals;


           (4)   FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;


           (5)   FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;


           (6)   FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;


           (7)   FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;


           (8)   FSC 9610, Ores;


           (9)   FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and


           (10)  FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.


           “Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed  from  raw
           materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government.  If a product  is  disassembled  and  reassembled,  the
           place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.


           “Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include  power  production  activities,  mineral  extraction
           activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the  Sudan  Accountability
           and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174).  Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person  (as
           that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—


           (1)   Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;


           (2)   Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of  the  Treasury,
                 or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;


           (3)   Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;


           (4)   Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;


           (5)   Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or


           (6)   Have been voluntarily suspended.


           “Sensitive technology”—


           (1)   Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically—


                 (i)   To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or
                 (ii)  To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and


           (2)   Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the  President  does  not  have  the  authority  to
                 regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).


           “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—


           (1)   Means a small business concern—


                 (i)   Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly  owned
                       business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
                 (ii)  The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or,  in  the
                       case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe  disability,  the  spouse  or  permanent  caregiver  of  such
                       veteran.


           (2)   Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with  a  disability  that  is  service-connected,  as
                 defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).


           “Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated,  not  dominant  in  the
           field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under  the  criteria  in  13 CFR
           Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.


           “Subsidiary” means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned—

           (1)   Directly by a parent corporation; or


           (2)   Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation.


           “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—


           (1)   Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or,  in  the  case  of  any
                 publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and


           (2)   The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.


           “Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or  more  women;  or  in  the  case  of  any
           publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and  whose  management  and  daily  business
           operations are controlled by one or more women.
           “Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—

           (1)   That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent  of
                 the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and


           (2)   Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.


           “Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13  CFR  part  127),  means  a  small
           business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business  operations
           of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States.


      (b)


           (1)   Annual Representations and Certifications.  Any changes provided by the Offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this  provision  do  not
                 automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications  Application
                 (ORCA) website.


           (2)   The Offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA  website  accessed  through
                 https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the Offeror verifies by  submission  of  this  offer
                 that the representations and certifications currently  posted  electronically  at  FAR  52.212-3,  Offeror  Representations  and
                 Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last  12  months,  are  current,  accurate,  complete,  and
                 applicable to this solicitation (including the business  size  standard  applicable  to  the  NAICS  code  referenced  for  this
                 solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this  offer  by  reference  (see  FAR  4.1201),  except  for
                 paragraphs ______________.


                 [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that  the  Offeror  has  completed  for  the
                 purposes of this solicitation only, if any.


                 These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this  offer  and  are  current,  accurate,  and
                 complete as of the date of this offer.


                 Any changes provided by the Offeror are applicable  to  this  solicitation  only,  and  do  not  result  in  an  update  to  the
                 representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.]


      (c)   Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be  performed  in  the  United  States  or  its
           outlying areas.  Check all that apply.


           (1)   Small business concern. The Offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern.


           (2)   Veteran-owned small business concern.  [Complete only if the  Offeror  represented  itself  as  a  small  business  concern  in
                 paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a  veteran-owned  small
                 business concern.


           (3)   Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.  [Complete only if the Offeror represented  itself  as  a  veteran-owned
                 small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents as part of its offer that it  o is,  o is
                 not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.


           (4)   Small disadvantaged business concern.  [Complete only if the  Offeror  represented  itself  as  a  small  business  concern  in
                 paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not  a  small
                 disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.


           (5)   Women-owned small business concern.  [Complete only  if  the  Offeror  represented  itself  as  a  small  business  concern  in
                 paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern.


           (6)   WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program.  [Complete only if the Offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business
                 concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents that—


                 (i)   It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all  the  required  documents  to  the  WOSB
                       Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and


                 (ii)  It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13  CFR  part  127,  and  the  representation  in
                       paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program  participating  in
                       the joint venture.  [The Offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under  the  WOSB  Program  and
                       other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.]  Each WOSB  concern  eligible  under  the
                       WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.


           (7)   Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern.  [Complete only if the Offeror represented itself as  a
                 WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents that—


                 (i)   It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB  Repository,  and  no  change  in
                       circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and


                 (ii)  It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13  CFR  part  127,  and  the  representation  in
                       paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB  concern  participating  in  the  joint  venture.   [The
                       Offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint
                       venture: __________.]  Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy  of  the
                       EDWOSB representation.


           (8)   Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern).  [Complete only if the  Offeror  is  a  women-owned  business
                 concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]  The Offeror represents
                 that it o is a women-owned business concern.


           (9)   Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns.  If this is an invitation for bid, small business Offerors may  identify  the
                 labor surplus areas in which costs to be  incurred  on  account  of  manufacturing  or  production  (by  Offeror  or  first-tier
                 subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________


           (10)  HUBZone small  business  concern.   [Complete  only  if  the  Offeror  represented  itself  as  a  small  business  concern  in
                 paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The Offeror represents, as part of its offer, that—


                 (i)   It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the  List  of  Qualified
                       HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership  and
                       control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with  13  CFR
                       Part 126; and


                 (ii)  It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and  the  representation
                       in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone
                       joint venture.  [The Offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business  concerns  participating  in  the
                       HUBZone joint venture: __________.]  Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture  shall
                       submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.


      (d)   Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246—


           (1)   Previous contracts and compliance.  The Offeror represents that—


                 (i)   It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal  Opportunity  clause  of  this
                       solicitation; and


                 (ii)  It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports.


           (2)   Affirmative Action Compliance.  The Offeror represents that—


                 (i)   It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on  file,  at  each  establishment,  affirmative
                       action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or


                 (ii)  It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs  requirement  of  the  rules  and
                       regulations of the Secretary of Labor.


      (e)   Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352).  (Applies only if the contract  is  expected  to
           exceed $150,000.)  By submission of its offer, the Offeror certifies to the  best  of  its  knowledge  and  belief  that  no  Federal
           appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee  of
           any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her  behalf  in
           connection with the award of any resultant contract.  If any registrants under the Lobbying  Disclosure  Act  of  1995  have  made  a
           lobbying contact on behalf of the Offeror with respect to this contract, the Offeror shall complete and submit, with its  offer,  OMB
           Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants.  The Offeror need not report  regularly
           employed officers or employees of the Offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made.

      (f)   Not applicable.


      (g)   Not applicable.

      (h)   Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
           simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
           principals—


           (1)   o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award  of  contracts  by
                 any Federal agency;


           (2)   o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against
                 them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal,
                 state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to  the  submission
                 of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery,  bribery,  falsification  or  destruction  of  records,  making  false
                 statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;


           (3)   o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission  of
                 any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and


           (4)   o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount
                 that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.


                 (i)   Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:


                 (A)   The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability  is  not
                       finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to  the
                       liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.


                 (B)   The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability
                       when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is  not  delinquent  in  cases  where  enforced  collection  action  is
                       precluded.


                 (ii)  Examples.


                 (A)   The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer  to  seek  Tax
                       Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final  tax  liability.  Should
                       the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised  all  judicial
                       appeal rights.


                 (B)   The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued
                       a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien
                       filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing.  In  the  course  of  the
                       hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest  the  underlying  tax  liability  because  the  taxpayer  has  had  no  prior
                       opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final  tax  liability.  Should  the
                       taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until  the  taxpayer  has  exercised  all  judicial
                       appeal rights.


                 (C)   The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is  making  timely  payments
                       and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is  not  currently
                       required to make full payment.


                 (D)   The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because  enforced  collection  action  is
                       stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).


      (i)   Not applicable.


      (j)   Not applicable.


      (k)   Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the  Service  Contract  Act.  (Certification  by  the  offeror  as  to  its
           compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if  it  subcontracts
           out the exempt services.)


           [  ] (1)    Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror  o does  o does
                 not certify that—


                 (i)   The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and  are
                       sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in  substantial  quantities  to  the
                       general public in the course of normal business operations;


                 (ii)  The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
                       4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and


                 (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be  the
                       same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.


           [X] (2)     Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that—


                 (i)   The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers,  and  are  provided  by  the
                       offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in  substantial  quantities  in  the
                       course of normal business operations;


                 (ii)  The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR
                       22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii));


                 (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her  time
                       (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis,  or  less  than  20  percent  of
                       available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract;
                       and


                 (iv)  The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the  same
                       as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.

           (3)   If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—
                 (i)   If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach
                       a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as
                       possible; and


                 (ii)  The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror  if  the  offeror  fails  to  execute  the  certification  in
                       paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this
                       clause.

      (l)   Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is  required  to  provide  this
           information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)


           (1)   All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision  to  comply  with  debt
                 collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of  26  U.S.C.  6041,  6041A,  and  6050M,  and
                 implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).


           (2)   The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship
                 with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described
                 in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.


           (3)   Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).


                 o  TIN: ________________________________.
                 o  TIN has been applied for.
                 o  TIN is not required because:
                 o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income  effectively  connected
                 with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying
                 agent in the United States;
                 o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
                 o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.


           (4)   Type of organization.


                 o  Sole proprietorship;
                 o  Partnership;
                 o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
                 o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
                 o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
                 o  Foreign government;
                 o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
                 o  Other ________________________________.


           (5)   Common parent.


                 o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
                 o  Name and TIN of common parent:
                 Name ________________________________.
                 TIN _________________________________.

      (m)   Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the  offeror  does  not  conduct  any
           restricted business operations in Sudan.

      (n)   Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations.


           (1)   Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined  does  not  meet  the  definition  of  an
                 inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874.


           (2)   Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that—


                 (i)   It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and


                 (ii)  It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.


      (o)   Sanctioned activities relating to Iran.


           (1)   The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov.


           (2)   Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph  (o)(3)  of  this
                 provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror—


                 (i)   Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export  any  sensitive  technology  to  the
                       government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of,  the
                       government of Iran; and


                 (ii)  Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for  which
                       sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act.


           (3)   The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if—


                 (i)   This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and


                 (ii)  The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.



E-5   Additional FAR Provisions Incorporated by Full Text


      SSA incorporated the following FAR provisions in the solicitation by full text:


      E-5.1 FAR 52.209-7 – Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Apr 2010)



           (a)   Definitions.  As used in this provision—


                 “Administrative proceeding” means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order  to  make  a  determination  of
                 fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings,  Civilian  Board  of  Contract  Appeals
                 Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings).  This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal
                 and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant.  It does not include agency actions such
                 as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables.


                 “Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000” means—


                 (1)   The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and


                 (2)   The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity,
                       8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).


                       “Principal”  means  an  officer,  director,  owner,  partner,  or  a  person  having  primary  management  or  supervisory
                       responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or  business  segment;
                       and similar positions).


           (b)   The Offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000.


           (c)   If the Offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the Offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that  the
                 information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS)  is  current,  accurate,
                 and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information:


                 (1)   Whether the Offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five  years,  in  connection  with  the
                       award to or performance by the Offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or
                       State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions:


                       (i)   In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.


                       (ii)  In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of  a  monetary  fine,  penalty,
                            reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.


                       (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in—


                            (A)   The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or


                            (B)   The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.


                       (iv)  In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent  or  compromise  with  an
                            acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to  any  of  the  outcomes  specified  in
                            paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision.


                 (2)   If the Offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed  in  (c)(1)  of  this  provision,
                       whether the Offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.


           (d)   The Offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of  this  provision  in  FAPIIS  as  required
                 through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov  (see
                 52.204-7).


      E-5.2 FAR 52.216-1 – Type of Contract (Aug 1984)


           The  Government  contemplates  award  of  a  firm-fixed  price,  with  firm-fixed   price   level-of-effort   elements,   Indefinite-
           Delivery/Indefinite-Quantity (ID/IQ)-type contract resulting from this solicitation.


      E-5.3 FAR 52.233-2 – Service of Protest (Aug 1996)


           (a)   Protests, as defined in Section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are  filed  directly  with  an  agency,  and
                 copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office  (GAO),  shall  be  served  on  the  Contracting
                 Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:


                       ATTN: Christopher Mettee
                       7111 Security Boulevard
                       1st Floor, Rear Entrance
                       Baltimore, MD 21244-1811


           (b)   The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.


E-6   Additional FAR Provisions Incorporated by Reference


      FAR 52.252-1 – Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)

      This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they  were  given  in
      full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions
      may include blocks that must be completed by the Offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text of
      those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation
      or offer.  Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):

      http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html

         • 52.225-25 – Prohibition on  Contracting  with  Entities  Engaging  in  Sanctioned  Activities  Relating  to  Iran—Representation  and
           Certification (Nov 2011)

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK
SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER 1. REQUISITION NUMBER PAGE OF

3319-12-1744 SSA-RFP-12-1036
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1

182
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

06/14/2012

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

CHRISTOPHER METTEE
CODE

410-965-9486
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS SMALL BUSINESS HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS UNRESTRICTED OR

06/27/2012 1700 ET
X SET ASIDE:

9. ISSUED BY

00600

100.00

% FOR:

Social Security Administration Office of Acquisition and Grants 1st Floor - Rear Entrance 7111 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1811
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM NAICS: EDWOSB

541519 $25.0

X 8(A)

SIZE STANDARD:

13b. RATING 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X RFP

SA

16. ADMINISTERED BY

CMETTEE

See Attached

CHISTOPHER METTEE (410) 965-9486

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

This is a Request for Proposal (RFP) utilizing the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 12, 15, and 19, to purchase independent verification and validation (IV&V) services to support SSA's information security and assurance mission. The Government anticipates awarding a firm-fixed price, with firm-fixed price level-of-effort elements, Indefinite-Delivery/Indefinite-Quality (ID/IQ)-type contract as a result of this RFP to the Offeror that represents the best value. Period of Performance: 09/29/2012 to 09/28/2017
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. X 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN 1 COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDEND

X ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

. YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF. DATED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

JACQUELINE LESSIG
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK 2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

182
24. AMOUNT

0001

The Objective of the Government is to procure and use Contractor expertise in the completion of task order specific risk analysis, security control testing and penetration testing services for existing SSA Major Applications (MAs) and General Support Systems (GSSs), as well as, the SSA enterprise. See the attached Solicitation Addenda and related attachments. ************************************************** * - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS * ************************************************** Pursuant to the clause at FAR 52.216-18 ­ Ordering, in Addendum C, Section 1.2, SSA authorizes by mail and electronic commerce methods. SSA does NOT authorize orders by oral or facsimile. For electronic delivery, SSA considers an order as "issued" when the Government transmits an e-mail notification to the Contractor's mail server.

Continued ...
32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) BACK

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK
CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED PAGE OF

SSA-RFP-12-1036

3

182

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

(A)

(B) ************************************************** * - Contract Minimum Guarantee and Maximum * ************************************************** Pursuant to FAR 16.504(a), the minimum quantity, guaranteed by the Government under this acquisition, is $100,000.00. The total maxiumum quantity of all services ordered through this contract shall not exceed $12,000,000.00. ************************************************** * - CONTACT INFORMATION * ************************************************** For questions regarding this solicitation, please contact Christopher Mettee, Contract Specialist, by e-mail at Christopher.Mettee@ssa.gov or by phone at 410-965-9486. ************************************************** * - ATTACHMENTS * ************************************************** SSA-RFP-12-1036 ­ Solicitation Addenda (114 pages) x Attachment 1 ­ Pricing Table x Attachment 2 ­ List of SSA Major Applications x Attachment 3 ­ Sample Rules of Engagement x Attachment 4 - Definitions x Attachment 5 ­ Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information x Attachment 6 ­ Volume III Questionnaire x Attachment 7 ­ Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

LEVEL 6C= AIS HIGH RISK

