Performance Work Statement (PWS)

for

DLA Information Operations SharePoint Portal 

Server Administration Support and Web Content Management



1.0 Introduction:



Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Information Operations at New Cumberland requires contractual services for support of the SharePoint environment for the DLA Distribution installation and other depot locations.



The DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland is responsible for the support of all IT equipment, to include network/web/application servers, End User Hardware, COTS Software, DLA Distribution Portal, Applications, and total infrastructure.  The DLA Information Operations network is a Microsoft Windows Operating System environment. This PWS requires the performance of services to more efficiently support and deploy the developing Microsoft Technology environment, to incorporate state-of-the-art Microsoft SharePoint technologies, administration support with the approved local DLA Distribution portal and collaboration tool to enhance DLA Distribution’s onboard Microsoft SharePoint expertise during planning, deploying, and maintaining IT projects.  



SharePoint server administration support is required to ensure that all associated server hardware and software are functioning optimally to support the DLA Information Operations’ mission requirements.  These objectives include maintenance, recommendations, enhancements, backup/recovery, data integrity and security of servers and components.



DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland is responsible for supporting an environment consisting of 36 worldwide sites that include over 11,000 personnel. With expansion directives, the coverage range could extend to cover over 14,000 people.



J-6N is the DLA HQ POC and representative to DLA HQ for the DLA Internet Council and DLA Knowledge Management (Integrated Product Team) Council.  As a result, J-6N is responsible for the DLA Web Architecture and Infrastructure, DLA web-enabled application development, and the structure, processes, and procedures required for DLA Web Content Management.  Additionally, J-6N is required to prepare and provide Information Technology (IT) policies, guidelines, specifications, baselines, and operational procedures applicable to not only J-6N and DLA HQ directorates, but also for all DLA sites. As an organization, J-6N is required to provide daily operational support, policy, and strategic planning for the entire DLA, which currently encompasses twenty-five (25) distribution centers and eleven (11) mapping activities.



1.0.5  Web content management support is required to maintain current Internet and Intranet website environments, to include maintenance, updates, 508 compliance, backup/recovery, and data integrity. Currently there are six (6) intranet sites and one (1) internet site used by our DLA Distribution depots, throughout the enterprise.      



1.0.6  As, the current initiative is to migrate the existing intranet sites into SharePoint, the scope of support will gradually shift and require less web content management support.   







Section 2 GENERAL CONDITIONS AND REQUIRMENTS 



2.1 Scope of Work:



 DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland requires Server Administration Support Services in the maintenance and enhancement of existing hardware, software and infrastructure throughout DLA Distribution and all associated distribution locations in the Microsoft SharePoint atmosphere.  DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland is responsible for ensuring continuing operations of the DLA Distribution SharePoint infrastructure by creating, testing, validating and implementing new technologies and DLA/DoD directives.  The objective is to utilize on-site contractual support to supplement DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland’s expertise to maintain and/or enhance the existing hardware/software; and troubleshoot and resolve all related SharePoint problems that require DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland’s expertise and reach back to upgrade, deploy, maintain, and enhance hardware and software configuration and SharePoint services for all DLA Distribution locations.   



2.2 General Operating Condition

This Section provides general information relating to the conditions of operation and general requirements relating to the IT support services required.



Scope of Work:



The primary focus of this PWS is to enable the DLA to successfully provide web content management for not only J-6N, but also for all DLA HQ directorates, and all DLA sites.  In addition, the DLA must work with the DLA contacts to plan the enterprise rollout of the DLA Content Management program.  The objectives of the web content management support service contract are as follows:



Coordinate the DLA content management planning and deployment with the 
J-6N web/SharePoint Administrator, DLA Command Affairs Office, J6N Information Assurance and DLA OPSEC Officer, and DLA HQ POCs.

Act as the primary POC for all DLA Web Content issues.

Define, deploy, maintain, and manage the DLA Web Content Management support structure and configuration based upon the guidelines, policies, and procedures, which were defined, architectured, and maintained by the J-6N Web/SharePoint Administrator , DLA Command Affairs, and DLA HQ.

Ensure to obtain a well-defined web content management structure and environment to provide a robust and effective environment for web content sharing.

Train DLA personnel responsible for DLA-wide, web content management support.

Once the DLA web content management architecture and services are established and in production, transition support responsibilities for these to identified DLA personnel responsible for DLA Web and SharePoint content management support.



The secondary focus of this PWS is to enable the DLA to successfully provide standardized Content Management/portal policies, guidelines, specifications, baselines, and operational procedures to all of the DLA Centers, both CONUS and OCONUS locations, as identified in the deployment plan.  Production and distribution of Content Management/portal documentation (both technical and non-technical) shall identify the necessary software interfaces and mechanisms to be integrated into the DLA IT architecture, specifically the DLA Web architecture, allowing DLA end-users to update/revise web-accessible content in real-time.  A web content delivery plan and strategy is essential to a successful and effective implementation of Content Management/portal.  The objectives of an effective web content delivery plan and strategy are summarized as follows:



Allow DLA end-users to update web-accessible data, information, and documentation real-time.

Establish and provide a dynamic enterprise-wide data and information-sharing environment that supports corporate e-collaboration requirements.

Provide easy and timely access to DLA corporate policies, guidelines, and procedures.

Provide critical input and language into the SharePoint Governance Operations document. 



Although sharing data and information is not a new J-6N requirement, defining and providing an on-line environment that allows end-users to share, collaborate, and update data, information, and documentation in real-time is done through SharePoint 2010.



This is a non-personal services contract to provide information technology support services.  The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the contract service providers performing the services herein.  Such contract service providers shall be accountable solely to the Contractor who, in turn, is responsible to the Government.  The Government and the Contractor understand that the services to be provided under this contract by the Contractor are non-personal services and that no employer-employee relationship exists between the Government and the Contractor.  The Government may provide technical direction which will assist the Contractor in accomplishing the PWS; however, the Government will not control the methods used by the Contractor to perform the service requirements set forth in the PWS.





2.2.1 Place of Performance, duty hours and access to the host installation

Work will be accomplished primarily at DLA Distribution in New Cumberland, PA 17070, to include regional locations.



The Contractor shall perform services required under this PWS in accordance with the Duty Hours identified in the PWS except Federal holidays and base closures.



The Contractor shall provide occasional on-call support for SharePoint Support.  On call support is estimated to occur no more than one telephone call a month. 









Contractors shall be required to travel periodically throughout the year. The contractor may have to travel to provide training to other sites and for disaster recovery exercises.   All travel charges will be in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).  Receipts for all travel expenses must be provided when the travel voucher is submitted. 





Due to changing traffic requirements brought on by construction, changing missions, and security concerns within the host installation, access to the host installation is subject to change, sometimes with little or no warning.  Inbound and outbound traffic restrictions exist.

2.2.2 Period of Performance

The period of performance for this contract action will be for a one year base period with four (4) one (1) year options.

2.2.3 Federal Holidays

Federal holidays generally observed by government personnel include:





In the event an Executive Order issued by the President of the United States declares Agencies of the Federal Government closed for a regularly scheduled workday, the Contracting Officer (KO) or Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) will determine and advise the Contractor on whether services are required for that day.

2.3 Management Personnel 

A. The Contractor shall appoint a Team Lead who shall be on-site at the place of performance designated in paragraph 2.2.1.  The Team Lead shall be available via telephone or email during the normal hours set forth in paragraph 2.2.1 for emergency problem resolution.  The Contractor shall determine the labor category for the Team Lead based on the Contractor’s proposed staffing plan.

2.4 Personnel Qualifications and Certifications

Contractor personnel must be proficient in reading and capable of communicating effectively in English.

2.4.1 Computing Environment (CE) and Operating Systems

The following list identifies the computing environment (CE), operating systems and data systems for which the Contractor shall be required to provide support (or use) which includes but is not limited to:

Windows 2008 or higher enterprise servers. 

Various models of Dell servers, Microsoft SharePoint Services 2010 at minimum 

Microsoft SQL 2008 at a minimum 

Avepoint DocAve Backup and Restore

Contractor personnel performing tasks under this PWS shall have appropriate level DoD 8570 IT level certifications for Information Assurance Technical (IAT) as identified in Table 2.4.1, IAT Requirements.   















                                                

Table 2.4.2, IAT Requirements






* All tasks performed under this PWS are categorized under Information Assurance Technical (IAT) Level II positions as outlined in DoD 8570.01-M. No waivers or extensions will be provided for mandatory DoD IA or DLA CE certification requirements. Contractor personnel who fail to maintain the required certifications are subject to KO directed removal for performance under Section 2.5 of the PWS. 

SYS ADMIN (WIN) –Primary Responsibilities set-up and configuration of the Microsoft SharePoint Services and the maintenance of the SharePoint services. Connection of the SharePoint services to the SQL back end and backup and recovery of the SharePoint application and user data.  



Personnel assigned to or utilized by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall possess the qualifications and skills set forth below and shall be fully capable of performing in an efficient, reliable, and professional manner.  If the KO or COR questions the qualifications or competence of any person performing under the contract, the burden of proof that the person is qualified as prescribed herein shall be upon the Contractor.

The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and certifications and for complying with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws.  The Contractor shall maintain updated copies of any applicable licenses and certifications for all employees and provide copies to the COR.

Contractor personnel that operate motor vehicles shall maintain a valid state driver’s license with all class and commodity endorsements required by Public Law 99-570 and state law for the type of vehicle operated.



Technical Personnel



SharePoint and Server Support Skills



A. Personnel utilized by the Contractor in the performance of work required under this contract shall possess the certifications, qualifications and skills set forth below.





2.5.2 Required for All Personnel Provided



Good Communication/Analytical skills.  Must have excellent communications skills, as face-to-face interaction with people is required, the use of the telephone, and the use of e-mail is essential and a prerequisite of the position.



Working knowledge of Internet/Intranet/Extranet architectures and security of each with emphasis on how it applies to domains in a Windows environment.  



Capability to identify problems, debug and resolve malfunctions.



Ability to analyze, diagnose, recommend and implement solutions for functionality problems.  



Ability to understand and interpret DLA’s current policy, procedures, guidance and content management or equivalent DoD Enterprise system.



In-depth knowledge and hands on work environment experience with the Microsoft SharePoint Portal server, web parts, and search.



In-depth knowledge and hands on experience of Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998 – Section 508 (IAW Section 508 Standards) and ability to comply with web pages and SharePoint is required.



Must have the knowledge and ability to repair the Section 508 failures.



Ability to understand and has experience in Enterprise Web structures;  including Access Control List permissions,  secure file transfers, firewalls ports, virtual webs, and ability to fix security vulnerabilities; e.g. Cross Site Scripting and SQL Injection.  Knowledge and experience with the DLA Web architecture, implementation, and DLA-unique method is a plus.



Keeping up-to-date on all software upgrades are assumed.  Any required training for any COTS software products required throughout this PWS is solely at contractor expense.



2.5.3 Senior SharePoint Administration



2.5.3.1. Proven working knowledge of, SharePoint Portal 2010 and 2013 Internet Information Server (IIS) 6.0 and later, Windows scripting, all aspects of Windows Security, and Microsoft server products and the integration of Microsoft products.  Working knowledge with the above software is required. 



2.5.3.2. Working knowledge with SharePoint Portal Server Software, Index Server, SQL Server, clustering and related Hardware. 



2.5.3.3 Working knowledge in using TCP/IP networking. 



2.5.3.4 Ability to monitor designated servers to determine sizing, efficiency, processing quality and throughput to recommend changes, resource and additional hardware/software.



2.5.3.5 Working knowledge of Symantec and McAfee Anti-virus products.



2.5.1.6 Ability to troubleshoot hardware and software problems related to SharePoint servers. 



2.5.3.7 Working knowledge with Exchange software configuration as it applies to the Sharepoint environment.



2.5.3.8 Ability to backup and restore software, specifically as it relates to the SharePoint 14 hive and databases. 



2.5.3.9 Working knowledge with SharePoint upgrade and migration technologies, currently DLA is utilizing Quest Migration software.



2.5.3.10 Working knowledge with Adobe Live Cycle workflow software and how it integrates with SharePoint.



2.5.3.11 Ability to understand and abide by the Mobile Code policy, OPSEC (Operational Security) and other DoD, DLA, and DLA Distribution Internet and Intranet and Information Assurance guidance, policy, and directives.  Examples may include the ability to correct SQL Injection or Cross Script Vulnerabilities of an application program.



2.5.3.12 Working capability designing and maintaining database structure, the database engine, dictionaries, data integrity, security, user accounts, jobs, roles, indexes, complex SQL statements and all necessary structures in a distributed application environment. 





2.5.4 Junior SharePoint Administration/Content Management

	

2.5.4.1 Ability to take requirements from a non-technical user and create a workable solution within the functional capabilities of SharePoint. 



2.5.4.2 Ability to create documentation for users and administrators of varying skill levels.

2.5.4.3 Working knowledge of industry best practices with SharePoint governance. 

2.5.4.4 Proficiency with statistical analysis software (Web Trends) installation, configuration, and administration as it applies to the current application.



2.5.4.5 Experience in training over long distances, through Video and/or Teleconference. Ability to train groups of varying sizes in a classroom or auditorium setting.  Knowledge to create training material for different user levels from basic to advanced.



2.5.4.6 Must have the knowledge, work environment experience and ability to update or create assigned web pages from scratch.





The Contractor personnel shall have working knowledge and hands on use of the following tools, databases, and IT infrastructure as listed below, to include current versions or later.





Table of Skills and Knowledge for personnel: 





***Knowledge of competitor products will be accepted.  Please list any deviations within the proposal as well as compatible features between the products. 





    Familiarity in the following technical support areas is expected:





2.6 Security

The Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) dated 27 August 2004 has established criteria for contractors who require a Common Access Card (CAC) for either physical access to a U.S. Government controlled installation or access to government information technology (IT) systems.  The Government requires Personnel Security Investigations (PSI) to establish that applicants or incumbents either employed by the Government or working for the Government under contract are suitable for the job and/or are eligible for a public trust position.  These positions have been designated as IT Level I and require a Secret clearance.  Contractors shall be required to provide appropriate background investigation for IT-I with Secret clearance as required in accordance with DoD 5220.22-M, “National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual” (NISPOM) and DoD 5200.2-R.  The appropriate background investigation for IT-I with Secret clearance is a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI).  The Contractor shall forward their employee clearance information to: 





DLA Intelligence Office 

ATTN:  Personnel Security Officer

2001 Mission Drive

New Cumberland, PA 17070



All personnel employed by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, or any representative of the Contractor entering a U.S. Government installation, shall abide by all security regulations and policies of the installation including access badges, parking, access to controlled or restricted areas, classified information, controlled unclassified information, data and IT resources.

DLA reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interests of the Government, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status. DLA also reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee for misconduct, security violations, or performance reasons. The reason for removal shall be fully documented in writing by the Contracting Officer. When and if such removal occurs, the contractor shall assign qualified personnel to any vacancy(s) thus created within 10 working days. This action does not relieve the contractor from total performance of the contract tasks specified herein.

Contractor shall return immediately all Government issued identification, access badges, and vehicle passes to the KO or COR upon termination of service.

The provisions outlined above apply to the prime contractor and any subcontractors the prime contractor may employ during the course of this contract. No contractor personnel performing sensitive duties shall be allowed to commence work on this effort until his or her trustworthiness has been favorably adjudicated.

2.6.1 DoD Common Access Card (CAC)/Access Identification Badge (ID Badge)/Electronic Key Card

Every Contractor employee shall obtain and possess a DoD Common Access Card (CAC) and an Access ID Badge as required.  Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job and the approval for temporary Automated Information System (AIS) access pending final adjudication of the PSI, the Contractor shall submit to the KO a request for the DoD CAC and ID Badge. 



The Contractor shall safeguard CAC and ID Badges furnished to them.  Contractor employees shall not share CAC and ID Badges.  Each Contractor employee shall wear the ID Badge conspicuously on his or her outer clothing above the waist at all times while working on the installation.  Personnel may be challenged and removed from the work area or denied access to the host installation if the ID Badge is not worn.  



In the event that a Contractor employee damages or loses his or her CAC and ID Badge, the Contractor shall report the lost or damaged CAC and ID Badge within two (2) working hours of damage or loss to the KO or COR who will arrange for a replacement CAC or ID Badge.  The Government will issue the Contractor employee a temporary ID Badge to be used for an eight to ten (8-10) working day waiting period until a new permanent ID Badge is issued.  The Contractor shall return all government-furnished CAC or ID Badges to the Government either within one (1) working day of the completion of the contract or upon termination of an individual’s employment, whichever comes first.  Contractor personnel failing to return their Government CAC or ID Badge are subject to criminal charges under USC Title 18, Chapter 1, Section 499 and 701.



The KO or COR will provide and maintain electronic key cards for the security access system.  The electronic key card allows access to specific controlled areas of the facilities.  The KO, COR or designee will approve and provide the electronic key cards to the Contractor for access to the facilities.



2.6.2 Information System Security

Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job and the approval for temporary AIS access pending final adjudication, but not less than fourteen (14) working days prior to the employee’s start date, the Contractor shall request Information Technology (IT) eligibility for an employee requiring access and passwords to the government-furnished data systems.  All positions involving computer activities require a minimum IT I category eligibility.  The Contractor shall submit a Contractor Investigative Request (CIR) and a DD Form 2875 for temporary IT I eligibility, with final eligibility contingent upon receiving a favorably adjudicated background investigation.   



All Contractor personnel provided with access to government-furnished computers and systems shall observe local AIS security policies and procedures as provided by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall notify the KO or COR within 12 hours when, for reasons of personnel resignation, reassignment, termination, or completion of portions of the contract, Contractor personnel no longer require access to government systems.



The Contractor shall observe all copyright agreements.  In the interest of protecting government systems from computer viruses, the Contractor shall not use public domain software nor shall Contractor personnel download software from public bulletin boards or Internet websites.  The Contractor shall use only commercial off-the-shelf (COTS), Contractor-developed, or government-furnished software in performance of the contract requirements.  Should the introduction of a computer virus or malicious destruction of computer software, stored information, or hardware result from the use of public domain software or from software taken from a public bulletin board or Internet website, the Contractor shall be required to repair the damage and incur all costs at no expense to the Government and without impact on delivery schedules.

2.6.3 Contact of a Suspicious Nature

Contractor personnel who have been contacted under suspicious circumstances shall report that contact immediately, either verbally or in writing, to their supervisor who shall report it within two (2) hours to the KO or COR for action.  Key contacts for reporting purposes are defined as:



Contact with an individual (regardless of nationality) that suggests to the Contractor employee that an intelligence gathering or terrorist organization may have targeted him or her for possible intelligence exploitation.

A request by anyone (regardless of nationality) for illegal or unauthorized access to classified or unclassified sensitive information.

Contact with a known or suspected intelligence officer from any country.

Contact with a foreign diplomatic establishment, whether in the U.S. or abroad, for personal or official reasons.  Certain Contractor personnel in positions designated as “sensitive” by the Government may also be required to inform their chain of command in advance of the nature and reason for contacting a foreign diplomatic establishment or travel to countries on the State Department list whose interests may be adverse to the United States.



Additionally, Contractor personnel who have information about activities pertaining to espionage, terrorism, unauthorized technology transfer, sabotage, sedition, subversion, spying, treason, unauthorized release of classified or unclassified controlled information, or unauthorized intrusions into automated information systems shall report that information immediately to the KO or COR for action.  

2.6.4 Safeguarding Information

The Contractor shall not allow access or disclosure of information regarding the operations of DLA to any government agency, non-government agency, or individual unless specifically authorized by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall provide documents and files requested by such parties to the KO or COR within one hour of receipt of the authorized request.   



The Contractor may be required to access data and information that is proprietary to a government agency or contractor or that is of such nature that its dissemination and use other than as specified in this contract would be adverse to the interests of the Government or others.  The Contractor and its personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained under performance of this contract except to government personnel who are authorized to receive the information or upon written approval of the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend other than as specified in this contract.



Disclosure of information regarding operations and services of DLA to persons not entitled to receive it, or failure to safeguard any classified information that may come into the Contractor’s control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the Contractor, its agent, or its employees to criminal liability under USC Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 37, Espionage and Censorship, Sections 793, Gathering, Transmitting or Losing Defense Information, and Section 798, Disclosure of Classified Information.  Neither the Contractor nor its employees shall disclose or cause to be disseminated any information concerning the operations of the activity which could result in, or increase the likelihood of, the possibility of a breach of DLA’s security or interrupt the continuity of DLA’s operation.

2.6.5 Potential Operational Constraints

Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) may affect access to the host installations and DLA facilities.  The FPCON is established by the host installation or higher national command authorities, and the Installation Commander is responsible for implementing the proper response to progressive levels of terrorist threats.  FPCONs are normally displayed at most entrance gates, building entrances and office entrances.  The Contractor shall adhere to and operate IAW any restrictions imposed as a result of a FPCON. Measures implemented under the various levels of terrorist threat may impact the Contractor’s normal operational approach to IT support services.  The Contractor shall ensure that IT support services are sustained during heightened security measures.  



2.7 Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)

The Contractor shall formulate and maintain a written safety and health plan and make available to the Government upon request.  The written plan shall include the details of the Contractor’s responsibilities, method of program implementation, and how hazards and deficiencies shall be identified and corrected.  It shall detail Contractor personnel responsibilities for:  protection of Government property and safety of others, personnel responsibilities for reporting all mishaps, and establish procedures for reporting to correcting unsafe conditions, hazards, or practices.  The Contractor shall have a central POC for safety and health related issues.  The POC shall be identified in writing to the KO or COR.

The Contractor shall ensure employees have safety education when engaged in activities involving Government facilities, personnel, or equipment.

The Contractor shall notify the KO or COR immediately after the occurrence of all accidents and incidents resulting in either personal injury, loss of life, impact to the environment or property damage to a government facility or equipment.  The Contractor shall submit a completed copy of DLA Form 1591 and supplemental information within four (4) working days of the accident or incidents.

The Contractor shall comply with all federal, state, and local environmental laws to include but not limited to Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Safe Water Drinking Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), and Federal Facilities Compliance Act (FFCA).

2.8 Phase-in Period 

A.  The phase-in period shall begin on the effective date of the contract and shall not exceed one (1) month, at which time full performance shall commence.  



Prior to twenty (20) calendar days of the date of effective date of the contract, the Contractor shall complete all hiring actions for personnel required to perform the requirements of the Contract and complete any associated training and certification requirements. The Contractor shall ensure that all new employees are trained and ready to begin working on the first day of full performance.

2.9 Preparedness Exercises

As directed by the KO or COR, the Contractor shall participate in preparedness exercises relating to security disaster preparedness and response, wartime response, and emergency and environmental and similar preparedness exercises.  

The Contractor shall participate in emergency and recall notification and personnel accountability exercises.  The Contractor shall establish emergency notification and recall and personnel accountability procedures in accordance with DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, and test those procedures twice a year when directed by the KO or COR.  During the exercise, the Contractor shall determine the status and whereabouts of assigned personnel, report the status of each Contractor employee to the KO or COR within established timelines, and continue to report periodic status until further direction by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall follow their personnel accountability procedures in the event of a real emergency as directed by the KO or COR. 

2.10 Certification and Acceptance

The KO or COR is designated as the point of final inspection and acceptance by the Government of all items and services required by the contract.  

SECTION 3 DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS 

3.1 DoD Dictionary

The DoD Dictionary of definitions and terms is available on the Internet at: .

3.2 Acronyms

Following are acronyms from Table 2.4.1, IAT and CE Certification Requirements:





SECTION 4 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP), SYSTEMS, TRAINING AND SUPPORT SERVICES

4.1 General Information

The Government will provide access to resources and information to include Government transactional data systems required in the performance of this PWS.

The Government will furnish on-site training for unique Government systems (GOTS) in performance of this PWS.

The Government may require Contractor personnel attend mandatory on-site or off-site training on DLA’s IT equipment, systems and/or network environment.  The Government will be responsible for instructor costs associated with this Government-furnished training.  The Government will reimburse the Contractor for travel costs allowed under FAR Part 31.205-46, Travel Costs for attending Government-furnished off-site training.   

The Government will provide on-site office space with furniture, to include computer and network printer, office supplies and desk telephone.   

At no cost to the Contractor, the Government will furnish the services to be used exclusively to perform the requirements of this contract that include custodial services, refuse and recycling collection, government forms, emergency medical services, police and fire protection, telephone and utilities.

The Government will provide all materials, parts, equipment and supplies that Contractor personnel will need to perform this requirement. This does not include contractor furnished motor vehicles (i.e. cars, vans and/or trucks). 

SECTION 5  CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING  



5.1 Contractor-Furnished Training



A. The Contractor shall provide training (not designated as Government furnished) which may be required for Contractor personnel to comply with the contract requirements.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all costs associated with this training.  The Contractor shall maintain copies of training records, designation letters and certificates on site and make them available for the KO or COR to review upon request.  The training records shall include, at a minimum, the name of the employee, the name of the course, the source of the training, a description of the training provided and the date the employee successfully completed the training.  The Contractor shall furnish the following training:



INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IAT) TECHNICAL TRAINING: 
Contractor personnel performing tasks associated with this PWS that will be performing an IA function shall be trained and certified in accordance with DoD Directive 8570.1 Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management and DoD 8570.1-M Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.  IA functions are defined in chapters 3 and 4 of the DoD 8570.1-M.  Contractor personnel performing IA functions on this contract shall be certified at the appropriate IAT Level as demonstrated by obtaining and maintaining one (1) of the DoD approved certifications posted on the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Information Assurance Support Environment (IASE) website (). The website provides a list of approved certifications for personnel performing IA functions that meet baseline IA certification requirements. Contractors may obtain any of the approved certifications to meet the applicable certification requirements for each associated level. 



COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT (CE) TRAINING:  
In addition to DoD IA baseline certification requirements, Contractor personnel shall obtain appropriate Computing Environment (CE) certifications for the operating system(s) and/or security related tools/devices being supported under this contract.  Contractor personnel should obtain CE certifications for all tools, systems and devices being supported; however, at a minimum, Contractor personnel shall obtain a certification in the functional area(s) they spend the most time supporting (i.e. Windows7 certification for Desktops/End User Support, Cisco/ Enterasys certification for Networking, Windows 2008 for System Administration).  See the DLA approved list of CE certifications in Table 2.4.1, IAT and CE Requirements. The approved CE list will be periodically updated to ensure relevant or expired industry standard certifications are added or removed as applicable to the CE or as directed by DoD policy.  At the time of proposal submission, the Contractor shall identify personnel performing IA functions identified in the PWS prior to that employee commencing any work under this PWS and provide documentation to the KO or COR showing the employee’s certification(s) and certification status.  The Contractor shall demonstrate that they have a process to track certification status of employees to ensure certifications are kept current. The contractor shall replace departing employees with employees possessing current certifications in a manner that will not cause program interruption.  Contractor personnel shall be required to sign the User Access Agreement, Privileged Rules of Behavior, and General Rules of Behavior and non-Disclosure agreement prior to working on any government system(s).





SECURITY TRAINING.  To ensure that all Contractor employees know and understand regulations and policy pertaining to physical, information, operations and personnel security, the Contractor shall provide security and antiterrorism training to all employees in accordance with applicable DOD regulatory requirements. At a minimum, security training requirements as required by the DLA Issuances and other applicable DOD guidance will be completed annually for:  Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP), Operations Security (OPSEC), Counterintelligence Awareness Training, Information Security (INFOSEC), DoD Information Assurance Awareness and Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP).  The security training is web-based and access will be provided by the Government.  The Contractor shall ensure Contractor personnel have taken the required security training to meet DoD guidance and that the personnel continue to maintain their certifications.



      5.2	Contractor Furnished Equipment 

		

	i. Contractor personnel privately-owned vehicles (POVs) shall not be used for the transportation of Government-owned IT equipment. Contractor-furnished vehicles and operators shall meet all applicable licensing, insurance, registration and safety requirements.



SECTION 6 SPECIFIC TASKS



6.1 SharePoint Application Support Tasks:





         

	**The Government estimates the growth at an additional six (6) sites per year with a potential variance of 20%. 

 

6.1.1. Plan, configure, stand-up, and validate new development, test and production environments for hosting SharePoint 2010 and 2013.  Install all required SharePoint 2010 and 2013 Portal Server software within the development, test and production environments for the new platform migration.



6.1.2. Coordinate, plan and migrate the existing SharePoint 2010 environment to SharePoint 2013.  The existing SharePoint 2010 portal consists of approximately 40 site collections (could grow to 70 site collections, 250 SharePoint team sites and 315 GB of data.  Ensure a stable, secure upgrade which meets all identified security, policy, and requirements, and is available for use by all DLA users. 



6.1.3. Work with the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) in the upgrade and migration of websites, content, applications, and other designated content to the DLA Distribution SharePoint Portal. The Government will perform the migration for checks and balances; the Contractor shall consult the procedures.



6.1.4. Provide transfer of knowledge to DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland administrators on functionality, administration, security, operations, backup/restore, permissions, etc.



6.1.5. Create firewall change requests to correct SharePoint server connectivity problems between enclaves.



6.1.6. Coordinate the update of client machines with the portal software.  Coordination may be required with the COR and Systems Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) Team for group policy management changes, etc.



6.1.7. Manage patch requirements of SharePoint portal servers utilizing tools utilizing SCCM .



6.1.8. Keep Backups of SharePoint portal (Avepoint) operations and maintain successful operations through the designated backup software.  At any time, a designated file should be able to be restored, if needed, by any end user through a Remedy ticket request.



6.1.9. Implement and ensure access to the DLA Distribution portal from all DLA Distribution sites are secure, using the Virtual Private Network (VPN), and accessible within reasonable response rates.



6.1.10. Coordinate with the DLA Information Operations Network team to setup and test Riverbed network optimization in conjunction with the SharePoint environment.



6.1.11. Test and Evaluate the SharePoint Portal System, testing portal, searches and indexes, customizations and integrations.



6.1.12. Ensure contingency planning and disaster recovery is documented, successfully tested, and up-to-date as directed by the COR or TPOC.  At any time the entire SharePoint portal shall be able to be restored to a compatible infrastructure and location.



6.1.13. Utilize Web Trends to administer the Statistical Analysis Server and other designated servers for the optimal use of SharePoint; i.e. Reporting, Usage, etc.



6.1.14. Research and remain up to date on Microsoft technologies and related third-party software. Research new technologies for use in growth, troubleshooting, or expansion of Microsoft SharePoint platform on an as needed basis.



6.1.15. Administer the clustered DLA Distribution’s Front End Portal Servers, Index Servers, Excel servers, and servers maintaining related database store for  the Development, Test and Production environments.



6.1.17. Configure alert notification through SharePoint, SQL and windows events, Foglight, What’s Up Gold & Solarwinds.



6.1.18.Ensure proper configuration for seamless integration with Active Directory, Office Communicator and Exchange.



6.1.19. Coordinate with Active Directory, Office Communicator and Exchange consolidation teams to ensure continued functionality in the event of domain migration.



6.1.20. Coordinate with Enterprise Active Directory, Office Communicator and Exchange administrators to provide Office 2010 integration.



6.1.21. Immediately notifies TPOC via email of any server viral activity, detected by Antivirus Software.



6.1.22. Develop custom out of the box workflows based on customer requirements.



6.1.24. Assist DLA Information Operations with the conversion of Web based Intranet sites to the SharePoint 2010 environment.



6.1.25. Analyze and coordinate cleanup of existing SharePoint site collections prior to migration.



6.1.26. Create a User Guide highlighting features and functionality of the new SharePoint environment.



6.1.27. Create a site collection administrator guide and provide hands on training for DLA Information Operations and DLA Distribution site collection administrators.



6.1.28. Create a governance document based on requirements from DLA Information Operations and DLA Distribution.



6.1.29. At the completion of the migration, coordinate the updating of all SharePoint sites and sub-sites to maximize the use of productivity features available in SharePoint 2013.



6.1.30. Develop and implement a shared DLA taxonomy for all documents stored on the SharePoint Portal.  This taxonomy should increase the “findability” of documents on the portal.



6.2  SharePoint Operating System Support Tasks:



6.2.1. Provide System Administration of Windows 2008 R2 or later services.



6.2.2. Monitor designated servers for optimal processing, configuration, security and stability.



6.2.3. Provide analysis and documented plan for migrating any lower level operating systems in support of a designated DLA Information Operations implementation strategy.



6.2.4. Provide research, analysis and support to keep on the cutting edge, up-to-date, or integrate with new products, as well as resolve issues with Microsoft SQL Server, as well as all servers involved with SharePoint assigned to administer.  



6.2.5. Provide windows administration services, including software installation, configuration, maintenance, upgrades (software and hardware), and application support, as it pertains to SharePoint.



6.2.6. Troubleshoot server and connectivity problems associated with the implementation of the Microsoft SharePoint environment.



6.2.7. Provide assistance in the installation, upgrade, and configuration of server/workstations and administrative access to the development and test environments, if requested by the COR.



6.2.8. Provide test plan for all documentation to ensure accuracy of documentation for all areas of support.



6.2.9. Keep up-to-date on Security Technical Implementation Guidelines (STIGs) and ensure that implementation of all STIGs is to be performed on test/development platforms and approved by application owner and Information Assurance (IA) offices prior to being moved onto production systems. 



6.2.110. Patch management of servers utilizing a tool such as SCCM..



6.2.11. Ensure contingency planning and disaster recovery is documented, tested, and up-to-date as directed by the COR..



6.2.12. Provide knowledge transfer to DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland personnel in the deployment, configuration, troubleshooting, and administration of the designated SharePoint Windows servers.



6.2.13. Utilize Eagle time and project tracking system to input consolidated time spent per day on each assigned projects using predetermined project codes that are provided within the project tracking system.



6.2.14. Ensure security is within DoD/DLA/DLA Information Operations’ Directives and server/application is tuned for optimal response rates.



6.2.15. Develop conceptual design, if required, and submit for approval prior to implementation.  All developed conceptual designs must be documented in writing.  



6.2.16. Ensure server security by applying Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), Secure Socket Layer (SSL), and requiring Common Access Card (CAC) authentication via Kerberos.



6.3 SharePoint Project Support Tasks:



6.3.1. Develop a project timeline which includes high level tasks and milestones used to ensure project success.



6.3.2. Track project progression and notify DLA Information Operations of any tasks that will not be completed on time.



6.3.3. Create a PowerPoint slide as needed detailing current status of the project.



6.3.4. Assist DLA Information Operations with marketing of the new SharePoint 2013 portal.



6.3.5. Review and provide SharePoint technical quality assurance for all deliverables and work products generated under this contract.



6.3.6. Brief J6N Management as needed on project status. 







6.4  SharePoint Content Management Support Tasks:



6.4.1   SharePoint Content Management - Maintenance 



6.4.1.1   Responsible for maintaining the 35+ existing DLA Distribution SharePoint sites, web pages, web parts, workflows and applications on the current SharePoint 2010 farm.

   

6.4.1.2   Responsible for all SharePoint site 508 compliance.  



6.4.1.3   Responsible for Archiving data, via AvePoint software, coordinating with site administrators, and configuring for retrieval, as deemed necessary.



6.4.1.4   Involvement in SharePoint Central Administration, as required. 





6.4.2   SharePoint Content Management – Development and Changes



6.4.2.1   Develop and/or Modify SharePoint web pages, web parts, workflows and applications 



6.4.2.2   Development requests that come in via remedy tickets from the site POCs, will be reviewed and created.  If the task will be a major undertaking, ex:  more than 1 day to accomplish, then the request will be referred back to the originator to be sent thru the ‘Front Door’ process for approval. 


6.4.3   SharePoint Content Management - Portal Architecture



6.4.3.1   Assist SharePoint/Web Administrators with server deployments, application upgrades and migrations, as well as SharePoint server administration, as it relates to the architecture, user capability and design required to meet the DLA customer’s on-line content availability needs.



6.4.3.2   Assist SharePoint site administrators with design and layout of site data to support the estimated growing user content.



6.4.3.3 	Be an integral part of the web/SharePoint server team assisting in testing and deploying of new SharePoint servers.



6.4.4   SharePoint Content Management – POC Coordination



6.4.4.1   Contribute to the development of SharePoint site Governance. 



6.4.4.2   Responsible for ensuring Site Owners are notified of future migrations, changes to access, etc. 



6.4.4.3   Responsible for maintaining a list of site owners and contact information.



6.4.5   SharePoint Content Management - POC Training



6.4.5.1   Responsible for training all new SharePoint Site Owners on site administration, permissions, site organization, creating webparts, etc.



6.4.5.2   Responsible for educating and enforcing conformance of SharePoint Governance.



6.5   Web Content Management Support Tasks:



6.5.1   Web Content Management - Maintenance Sites 



6.5.1.1   Web Content maintenance support shall be provided on all of the sites listed in the table below.  This includes site data structure, conformance to regulations, migration to other platforms and troubleshooting and problem resolution Enterprise wide.





**NOTE:  It is estimated during the five year term of the contract that there will be an approximate 85% variance in the number of websites listed in the above table.  However, the content will remain and continue to grow, no matter how it is distributed across the Web/SharePoint sites.



6.5.2   Web Content Management – Development and Changes


6.5.2.1	Contractor shall develop and/or Modify web pages, and applications.  Web page modifications are requested and/or assigned by the DLA Information Operations Web Administrator.


6.5.2.2   Development requests that come in via remedy tickets from the site POCs, will be reviewed and created.  If the task will be a major undertaking, ex:  more than 1 day to accomplish, then the request will be referred back to the originator to be sent thru the ‘Front Door’ process for approval. 


Web Content Management - Portal Architecture


Prepare and execute the content management and portal support structure and configuration, which supplements the current approved architecture, which is based upon and in compliance with DoD, DLA, DLA Distribution, and industry-based standards, including both Internet and Intranet specifications.  Microsoft Office SharePoint Designer 2007 is the web design tool used for the creation of new sites and for updates.

Prepare and execute the deployment of the DLA Distribution Web Content Management architecture to integrate with the approved portal software Web Content Management System software (software configuration and all related documentation) including, but not limited to the following:



Provide all Web Content Management coordination, planning, deployment, and maintenance of the DLA/DLA Distribution chosen enterprise Content Management Software. 

Web Content Delivery (i.e. content distribution) – the service of copying the pages of a web site to geographically dispersed servers and, when a page is requested, dynamically identifying and serving page content from the closest server to the user, enabling faster delivery.

Ease of access to DLA Distribution data, information, and knowledge repositories and libraries (aka intellectual assets and property).

6.5.4   Web Content Management – POC Coordination


6.5.4.1   As the DLA Distribution POC, the contractor shall be required to identify and/or establish and maintain a professional working relationship with established web content managers for each site, with the 508 Website Coordinator and with the e-Workplace technical teams at HQ DLA.  Additionally, the contractor shall provide content management support services for the DLA Distribution home page – i.e., improvements, maintenance, and information posting.  Some of the content posting may require ASP, .NET, JavaScript or database connection code.

Maintain an up-to-date list of all DLA Distribution site Content Managers who will be fulfilling the roles and responsibilities of a web content manager/POC for their respective organization or site.  Each entry on this list shall include a POC name, location/organization, phone number, and e-mail address, and any other contact information considered relevant. 

Contact and respond to each appointed Content Manager’s needs and requirements, when the project dictates.

Direct home page content management services (improvements, maintenance, information posting) shall be provided manually, where necessary, on an as needed basis, as directed by DLA Information Operations and/or DLA Distribution Command Affairs.  

Ensure all web pages are in compliance with applicable DoD, DLA, and DLA Distribution policies; e.g. Section 508, Mobile code Policy, OPSEC, and Security requirements, etc.



6.5.5   Web Content Management - POC Training



6.5.5.1   Develop a training package and train all DLA Distribution Web Content Manager/POCs, as needed.  Direction and training shall consist of a mirrored web content staging site using SharePoint Designer 2007. The training package shall consist of the following:



A.  Training can be structured as one-on-one training, instructor-led classroom training, or computer-based training, as the need is determined.  

B.  Basic overview and training for the connectivity and use of software tools used for web content management and design must be covered, as well as 508 compliance and security/PII concerns.  

C.  The training package shall be delivered to the DLA Distribution Web Administrator for approval.  Training should include screen shots and be presented to the Web Administrator in electronic format.  



6.5.5.2 Coordinate with the OPSEC Program Manager to schedule OPSEC training required for webmasters and web content managers IAW DLAI 6305.



6.6   SharePoint and Web Content Management Deliverables:

These deliverables apply to both Web and SharePoint Content Management.   

  

6.6.1   Monthly Reports



6.6.1.1   Contractor shall provide ‘Monthly’ progress reports of work performed.   This will include a status for each assigned task to include:   task, date due, status,  problems encountered, if any.  If behind schedule, identify issues and resolutions to get back on track.



6.6.1.2   Create and present PowerPoint slides, or other formatted documents, highlighting project timelines and status’s, for management presentations, as needed.



6.6.1.2   Concerns that will impact progress should be addressed with the COR and the SharePoint Administrator or Web Administrator immediately when known.



6.6.2    Documentation

6.6.2.1   Documentation of all SharePoint server farm and web server configuration and changes must be created for Disaster Recovery purposes.



6.6.2.2   Documentation should be stored in a restricted location on the SharePoint site, on the Team Foundations server and printed out and stored in a binder.


6.6.2.2   Documentation will be provided for all application development/changes to include source code, narrative explanation and user instructions.



6.6.3  Data Calls



6.6.3.1   Contractor shall respond to any and all data calls from higher headquarters, concerning server and content information within the SharePoint farm or DLA Distribution websites.



6.7 Application Change and Development Support Requirements.



6.7.1   Change and Development support applies to all web based applications servicing the DLA Distribution Enterprise and all SharePoint farm/site applications.  All the development and change requirements below will be completed each time an application or custom workflow, is created, changed or upgraded.  This includes any change which is expected to take more than (4) four hours to complete.



6.7.1.1   Requirements Analysis  

Identify specifications based on customer requirements, to determine the level of effort required.

Identify application purpose, justification, description, and data fields, interfaces, screens, fonts, attributes, etc., using 508 compliance measures.

Review requirements to be sure no other application exists with the same functionality.

Determine the best hardware and software configuration platform baseline 

If the change or development requirement is estimated to take more than four (4) hours to complete, work with the customer to get the CCB Customer Request form (CR), and the Information Technology Capability Request Form (ITCR) composed and uploaded to the CCB SharePoint site for review and approval thru the Front Door. 



6.7.1.2 Development

Upon CCB and Front Door approval, create Conceptual Design:  Application/Database/Information-base structure and layout, record definition and layouts, data field definition, end-user interfaces, screens, and drop-down menus, text and graphical issues (fonts, attributes, etc.), etc.  Business Rules are defined in accordance with the Customer Requirements.  The Contractor shall submit concept and design documentation outlining the database schema and structures, data flow, error-checking, data normalization, security, views, and web reports for approval to the KO, COR or Subject Matter Expert (SME), for approval.  

Have customer sign off on requirements and proposed project deliverables on Project Requirements/Acceptance form.

Create application software coding. Document the code explaining what the block of code is doing and any other helpful information.

Contractor shall implement the necessary modifications to the server hosted databases in accordance with optimal design for data insert, update and query retrieval performance.


6.7.1.3 Status/Issues/Delays

Attend meetings with the KO, COR or Subject Matter Expert (SME), to discuss milestones, task status, concerns, and any issues that would impact progress.  Discussions may include major projects such as AD Migrations, server replacements, or software upgrades.



6.7.1.4 Testing

Development Testing:  Incremental testing during the initial coding and development phases in a non-production, testing environment.

Production Testing:  Performed after Application Development and Coding phase is completed.  Testing of the overall integrity of the code in relation to the complete system performance in a staging environment. 

Customer Acceptance Testing:  Testing begins during the Production Testing phase.  During this phase, the customer actually tests the limitations of the products to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer. 



6.7.1.5 Technical Manuals and Source Code Documentation

End-User:   Overviews and End-User Manuals (Definition and instructions on how to use the application)

Functional Administrator/Coordinator: Overviews and Manuals (may be same as or similar to end-user
documentation); typically, the purpose of the application, description, data fields used, problem 
identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.

Technical:  Overviews and Manuals for technical support staff; e.g. DBAs (database analysts/administrators), system/server administrators, etc.; typically, the data and database structures, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.

The Contractor shall update the Source Code documentation that includes source information documented in 6.7.1.2 C., ASP pages, DLLs (source prior to executable) stored procedures, etc. reflecting the application changes.



6.7.1.6 Training 

End-User: Training should be focused on the access and use of the application being developed to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training modules should include a Basic Overview, including the correlation between application use and job/mission requirement, and a User Access Review.  The target audience for this training is application end-users, and functional administrators and coordinators.

Functional Administrator/Coordinator:   Training should focus on Application Overview, Purpose and Description, Record Layouts and Data Fields, Problem Identification, Troubleshooting, and Resolution, Problem Escalation and Referral, etc. The target audience for this training/training package is functional project and team leads, and/or functional administrators and coordinators.

Technical (DBA and System/Server Admin): Training should be focused on the purpose and description of the application, data and database structures used and defined, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc. to satisfy mission and job requirements.  


6.7.1.7 Coordination and Application Deployment

The Contractor shall notify the appropriate team leads and respective Program Coordinator, and Subject Matter Expert (SME), when the application development/changes have been completed and estimated timeframe/ schedule to deploy solution into the Production environment.

The Contractor shall coordinate the actual rollout of the new application changes, including distribution and installation of the application. Actual Production changes /updates require a Government Web/Systems Administrator to implement to be in accordance with the DIACAP rule stating that developers cannot publish changes to Production systems.



6.7.1.8 Final Acceptance Testing  

Not completed until application development and deployment have been completed.  Testing begins during the final stages of application development, and continues through application deployment.  During this phase, the customer tests the limitations of the products in a full production environment to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer.  If customer formally ‘accepts’ the application by signing the Project Requirements/Acceptance form, on the date/time when the application was accepted, the maintenance period for the application begins.  







Government Ownership of Data:



6.4.1 The Government shall retain ownership of all output products and data from work performed under this contract, as well as all programs, models, etc. that are developed or used by the Contractor. The contractor is not permitted to use the output products or data outside the performance of this contract without the direct consent of the Government. 

6.5 Property Accountability

The Contractor shall maintain care of all Government-furnished property.  At all times during the performance of the contract requirements, title to the mission stock and all other government-furnished property shall remain vested with the Government.  In exercising care and custody, the Contractor shall safeguard all Government-furnished property.



The Contractor shall provide the proper protection for material under their custody and control.  If there is a loss the Contractor shall immediately notify the KO or COR. 

6.6 Liability for Government Property

The Contractor shall be held financially liable for loss, damage, or destruction of government property caused by negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use.  The KO or COR will make the pecuniary liability determination when a Contractor’s negligence results in loss, damage, or destruction of Government property.



The Contractor shall:

Notify the KO or COR immediately when it discovers the gain, loss, damage or destruction of government equipment or property.  

Conduct an initial search and/or informal investigation into the loss or damage of equipment or property and forward all research data to the KO or COR.

Cooperate in any subsequent investigations.

6.7 Indemnification and Limitation of Liability 

The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and hold it harmless against claims for injury to persons or damage to property of the Contractor or others arising from the Contractor’s possession or use of the government facilities, from its activities, or from its use, care and custody of the mission stock and government equipment and supplies relating to the performance of this contract. 



When the KO or COR determines that any loss, damage or destruction of mission stock or other government property is caused by the Contractor’s negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use, the KO or COR may off-set payments under the contract by the determined value of the loss, damage or destruction.  The Contractor’s liability per occurrence shall be limited to $50,000 with a total limit of liability of $1,000,000 per year.  This limit of liability does not apply to the Government’s right to indemnification.

6.8 Recordkeeping

The Contractor shall utilize the Employee Activity Guide for Labor Entry (EAGLE) IT system which is DLA’s designated Time and Project Tracking System to input consolidated time spent on tasks performed using predetermined codes provided within the tracking system.



The Contractor shall utilize the Incident and Asset Management Tracking System to identify, schedule, document and complete all trouble call actions and requests. 



All documentation, record and databases, as described in this PWS, are the property of the Government.  All files developed in performance of the work under this contract are the property of the Government.  The Contractor shall turn all files over to the KO or COR at the completion or termination of this contract.



6.6  SECTION 508 Compliance Requirements

Section 508 must be considered as a requirement on the delivered content to assure that it includes data and/or knowledge appropriate to specific Section 508 accessibility requirements. Solicitation respondents must describe how their experience and skills will result in Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT), Software Development Services. The standards in the GPAT define the types of technology covered and set forth provisions that establish a minimum level of accessibility. Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508 requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation).



6.7 MAN HOUR REPORTING REQUIREMENT 



The contractor shall report all contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this contract for the Defense Logistics Agency via a secure data collection site.  The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the following web address:  http://www.ecmra.mil/.  Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30.  While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2014.  Contractors may direct questions to the help desk at help desk at:  ."



SECTION 7 QUALITY CONTROL PLAN

DLA is committed to a highly interactive relationship between quality control by the Contractor and quality assurance by the government recipient of services.  This relationship shall be achieved through a Prevention Based Quality System dedicated to ensuring the best possible products and services to DLA end users.  The Contractor shall provide their final QCP no later than (NLT) 10 calendar days after the start of full performance in accordance with paragraph 6.5B.

The Contractor’s quality system shall demonstrate its prevention-based outlook by meeting the objectives stated in the PWS throughout all areas of performance (e.g., all functional areas, all Acceptable Performance Level (APL) and non-APL requirements).  The QCP shall be developed to specify the Contractor’s responsibility for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract.  Within 24 hours of completion, the Contractor shall provide to the KO or COR, all reports generated as a result of the Contractor’s quality control efforts.  This shall include any summary information used to track quality control, including any charts/graphs.

The Contractor’s QCP shall be incorporated into and become part of this contract after the plan has been accepted by the Government.  Changes made after KO or COR approval shall be submitted in writing to the KO or COR for review and acceptance.  The Contractor’s QCP shall be maintained throughout the life of the contract and shall include the Contractor’s procedures to routinely evaluate the effectiveness of the plan to ensure the Contractor is meeting the performance standards and requirements of the contract.

DLA Information Operations will implement a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to ensure the contractor provides the required services and adheres to quality standards as specified in this PWS.  The KO or COR shall monitor performance.  This monitoring by the KO or COR shall be carried out via the QASP as identified in the attachment to this PWS entitled, “Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) for IT Support Services.  This QASP document shall also ensure the Contractor’s QCP effectiveness and provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the Contractor is required to furnish.  



SECTION 8 DELIVERABLES:



8.1 Upon contract award, DLA Information Operations’ TPOC will consult with the contractor representative(s) to provide an overview of current and proposed hardware/software configurations.



8.2 The Contractor shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Liability Insurance to the COR.



8.3 The Contractor shall provide a monthly report tracking contract employees’ IAT Level certification(s), date(s) of certification, and date(s) of certification expiration.  The report shall also include scheduled IAT Level certification training and plan of action for replacement of any employees with expiring certification(s) if no re-certification is scheduled. 



8.4 The Contractor shall provide weekly status updates to the COR to include any issues that would impact completion date of any assigned support tasks.  



8.4.1. Complete projects and tasks and provide weekly status of work to the COR.  Documentation shall to be submitted within five (5) working days upon completion of task(s).  All documentation shall be accurate and complete.  



8.4.2. Weekly status reports are due by 12:00 P.M. each Monday for the previous week.  The weekly status report shall follow Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) guidelines and shall include status on work completed and any issues that could not be resolved or suspense that was not met with an explanation for the delay.



8.4.3. Provide up-to-date Full Technical Documentation on SharePoint Portal server, Index Server, Data Store to reflect the most current architecture/infrastructure of the SharePoint portal.  Documentation will cover the installation, setup and maintenance of all servers within the SharePoint environment.



8.4.4. Complete knowledge transfer to designated DLA staff.  This is usually requested in document format, depending on the depth and severity of the task.  

		

8.4.5. The Contractor shall, upon request, attend and participate in meetings with the COR, or alternates to discuss required tasks, concerns, and any issues.



8.4.6. Provide current status regarding any task that is in process.  If the suspense will not be met, the Contractor shall provide a detailed explanation and an estimated completion date that is satisfactory to the COR.   



8.4.7. Tasks/Work Orders assigned through Remedy Application shall be completed within the time agreed upon by the Contractor and the COR. 



8.4.8.  Provide up-to-date and complete documentation of all assigned tasks, STIG implementation, accomplishments, and technical related documentation on each task. 



8.4.9. Documentation of server sizing requirements, as assigned.



8.4.10. Provide System Maintenance documentation, such as:  Backups and restores, Disaster Recovery and performance monitoring and all associated documents. 



8.4.11. The Contractor shall keep a central documented file, which will outline and describe all configuration, response rates, tuning, patches, changes, etc. on each system assigned.



8.4.12. Governance document describing all aspects of site collection administrative duties.



8.4.13. User guide with screenshots highlighting features and functionality of SharePoint 2010.



8.4.14. Site collection administrator’s guide and hands on training.



8.4.15. Project timeline including all high level tasks and milestones that must be met for migration success. 



                	   8.4.16. As needed create PowerPoint slides outlining project status.



8.4.17. Utilize Eagle Time and project tracking system to input consolidated time spent per day on each assigned customer using predetermined codes that are provided within the tracking system.





















DLA Distribution New Cumberland PA

On-Site or  Remote Support

On-Site

Duty Hours

0630 – 1730 

Monday - Friday

Est. frequency of on-site support

Daily



Observed Federal Holidays

Observed Federal Holidays

New Year’s Day

Martin Luther King Day

Presidents Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veterans Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day



Approving Authority

Functional/ Support Type

Certification

Requirement

DoD Approved IAT Level II Baseline Certifications

Sys Admin (WIN) 1

GSEC, SCNP or “Security+ CE, SSCP”

Personnel performing work must have and maintain at least (1) certification at the IAT II or IAT III Level

DoD Approved IAT Level III Baseline Certifications

Sys Admin (WIN) 1

CISA, GSE, GCIH or CISSP (or Associate)

Personnel performing work must have and maintain at least (1) certification at the IAT II or IAT III Level



Development, Web Interface and Maintenance Tools

Development, Web Interface and Maintenance Tools

Databases

IT Infrastructure

Quest Migration SW

SharePoint Designer 2007 & 2010
AvePoint Backup/Restore
AvePoint Archiver

AvePoint Administration

HiSoftware Compliance Sheriff (508-web)

AvePoint Compliance Guardian (508-sharepoint)



Photoshop

.Net

JavaScript

HTML

DHTML

XML

IIS 6.0 and 7.5

Kerberos

ASP



SQL

Access

Load Balancing

Search

SharePoint Central Administration

TCP/IP networks

WorkFlows





Technical Support Areas:

Technical Support Areas:

Technical Support Areas:

Technical Support Areas:

Information Assurance



Firewall Administration and Support



Proxy Configuration



Storage Area Network (SAN) support



Disaster Recovery/ Continuity of Operations



Active Directory (AD)





Web-based Application Development and Content Management



HIPS



EWorkplace





SYMBOL

DEFINITION

GIAC

Global Information Assurance Certification

GSEC

GIAC Security Essentials Certification

SCCP

Systems Security Certified Practitioner

CISA

Certified Information Systems Auditor

GSE

GIAC Security Expert

GCIH

GIAC Certified Incident Handler

CISSP

Certified Information Systems Security Professional

MCDST

Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician

MCITP

Microsoft Certified IT Professional

EDST

Enterprise Desktop Support Technician

MCM

Microsoft Certified Master

MCSA

Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate

MCSE

Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert

MCTS

Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist

MCP

Microsoft Certified Professional

CCNA

CISCO Certified Network Associate

CCIE

CISCO Certified Internetwork Expert

ESE

Enterasys System Engineer

SCNA

Sun Solaris Certified Network Administrator

CCNP

CISCO Certified Network Professional

CCSP

CISCO Certified Security Professional

NSA

EC-Council Network Security Administrator

ECIE-C

Enterasys Certified Internetworking Engineer for Infrastructure



Est. # Distribution sites receiving SharePoint Support

Current # of site collections

Estimated Future # of site collections* 

Number of Databases 

Total Size of all Databases Combined

29

40

70

1 per site collection

315GB



Site



Version





SharePoint Farm w/35+ Sites



2010







Site



IIS Version

Targeted for Migration to SharePoint

Potential SharePoint Applications

Public Internet



7.5

not at this time 

no

Distribution’s Intranet



7.5

yes

yes

Susquehanna’s Intranet



7.5

yes

yes

Oklahoma City’s Intranet



7.5

yes

yes

San Joaquin’s Intranet



6.0

yes

yes

Anniston’s Intranet



6.0

yes

yes

DoD Intranet



7.5

not at this time 

no												SP3300-14-R-0003  Attachment 2

Section 508, Government Product Accessibility Template for Software Development Services

Summary

Column one involves consideration of all the Sections of the Standard that might apply to any deliverable.  The total number of provisions within each Section of the Standard is shown in parentheses.  

Column two identifies the total number of provisions that typically apply to a deliverable of this type.  Some of these may not be features of the vendor’s deliverable.  Conversely, others not noted may be features of the vendor’s deliverable.  If the deliverable involves consideration of additional features, the accessibility of these features must also be considered.

Column three is for general notes about the Sections of the Standard.  Some apply to all deliverables and some are specific to the deliverable.

Column four is a summary of the vendor’s response to applicable provisions and additional deliverable features from the Sections of the Standard.

Column five is where the vendor can note explanations for any of the preceding columns, e.g. there are differences between expected applicable provisions and actual product features.





Subpart B -- Technical Standards 

Note: If there is a possibility that the provision applies, the default value is “Yes”.  



Column one is the full text of the provision from the Standard.

Column two documents the agency’s accessibility requirement based on common characteristics of the EIT deliverable.  Place a Yes or No in this column based on program need and actual characteristics of your expected deliverable (i.e., Is this provision seen as applicable to the expected deliverable?)

Column three provides explanatory information about the provision to help both the agency in determining applicability and the vendor in providing accessibility information. 

Column four is for the vendor to check off whether the deliverable meets, partially meets or does not meet the specific provision.

Column five is for the vendor to provide an explanation of how the deliverable meets or does not meet the specific provision.  It is also an opportunity to explain why a deliverable does not have an applicable feature or why it has a feature that was not identified as applicable.

Section 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems



Section 1194.22 Web-based intranet and Internet information and applications





CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Total Number of Possible Applicable Provisions

Notes

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Please explain

CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Total Number of Possible Applicable Provisions

Notes

Fully

Partial

Not

Please explain

Section 1194.21  (12 provisions) 

12

Software Development involves consideration of software applications and operating systems.









Section 1194.22  
(16 provisions)

16

Software Development involves consideration of web-based applications and information.











Provision Text 

Applicable 

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement? 

Please explain

(a) When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a keyboard where the function itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually.

Yes

This applies to QWERTY keyboards.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(b) Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified as accessibility features, where those features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable activated features of any operating system that are identified as accessibility features where the application programming interface for those accessibility features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(c) A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input focus changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that Assistive Technology can track focus and focus changes.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(d) Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and state of the element shall be available to Assistive Technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(e) When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the meaning assigned to those images shall be consistent throughout an application's performance.

Yes

In this requirement, the term “bitmap” refers to a broad number of image formats, such as .bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .tif and .svg.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(f) Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The minimum information that shall be made available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(g) Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No



(h) When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user.

Yes

Self-scrolling and moving text are considered animation.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(i) Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(g).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(j) When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a range of contrast levels shall be provided.

Yes

See  



This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(h).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(k) Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

Yes

Other elements include turning graphics on and off or changing between images.



This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.22(j) and 1194.25(i).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(l) When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.22(n). 

__Fully
__Partially
__No





Provision Text 

Applicable 

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement? 

Please explain

(a) A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided (e.g., via “alt”, “longdesc”, or in element content).

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No


 

(f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.

Yes

This requirement does not apply to tables used strictly for layout.

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.21(k) and 1194.25(i).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes.

Yes





This should only be used as a last resort.

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with functional text that can be read by Assistive Technology.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with Section1194.21(a) through (l). 

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues. 

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.21(l).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links. 

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(b).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 
                                                       Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
                                                   DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland
                                            SharePoint Administration and Content Management Services

1.0. Purpose

1.0.1. This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) is a government developed document used to evaluate Contractor actions while implementing
the Performance Work Statement (PWS) included in this contract.  The QASP is designed to provide an effective surveillance method for monitoring
and evaluating the Contractor’s performance for each of the performance objectives, to ensure that the Contractor performs in accordance with
the performance metrics set forth herein, and to ensure that the Government receives the acceptable performance levels of services.

1.0.2. The Contracting Officer (KO), or designee, performs surveillance activities under direction of the DLA Information Operations at New
Cumberland Director. The QASP will also afford the KO, or designee, a productive mechanism to preclude major deficiencies in Contractor
performance, provide input for the annual Contractor performance evaluations, and make the determination of exercising contract options and that
the Government only pays for acceptable level of services received.  The Contractor, and not the Government, is responsible for management and
quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract.  The role of the Government is to carry out quality assurance surveillance actions to
ensure contract standards are achieved.  This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) may be revised periodically as determined by the KO, or
designee. The Contractor shall be provided a 30-day notice of the revision.

2.0. Performance objectives for the Contractor


2.0.1. The Contractor shall perform SharePoint Administration and Content Management support services with oversight and approval of the KO, or
designee.  These services include all functions associated with generally accepted SharePoint maintenance and development functions, services,
and information and equipment accountability requirements. Specific tasks are detailed in the PWS.

2.0.2. Contractor shall ensure that adequate staffing levels are provided to meet the Acceptable Performance Levels (APL’s) detailed in this
QASP.  Contractor will be evaluated monthly to ensure performance meets or exceeds the APL’s listed below. Penalty deductions may be used to
reduce the monthly fixed price invoice when APL’s are not met.

3.0. Metrics / penalties

3.0.1. Performance levels will be monitored and measured monthly, and compared against the APL’s by the KO, or designee.  If a performance
objective APL is not met during a calendar month, the following month’s invoice will be reduced by the penalty listed in the APL.  While it may
be possible for penalty percentages to add to more than 10%, the maximum discount will be 10%.

3.0.2. Actual use and application of monetary penalties in any given month may be waived by the KO, or designee, if the KO, or designee, and
Vendor PM agree that such penalties are not necessary or are not appropriate based on the circumstances associated with creating the penalty.

Acceptable Performance Levels:

4.0. SharePoint Administration and Content Management

4.1.0. Performance Objective: Timely and accurate completion of assigned projects and tasks.


   4.1.1. Measure 1: Necessary patches and updates are completed accurately and within the time frame allotted.


      4.1.1.1. Surveillance:  The KO, or designee, will perform 100% inspections to determine whether assigned projects and tasks are completed
      within specified time limits and meet specifications that were asked.


      4.1.1.2. Acceptable performance level: At least 98% of assigned projects / tasks are completed and returned to the KO, or designee, by the
      defined or stated completion date, as specified by the KO, or designee and are accurately finished to specifications supplied.  Contractor
      personnel shall notify the KO, or designee, of any anticipated delays, and will notify the KO, or designee, of task completion within 24
      hours.


      4.1.1.3. Penalty: 2% of the total monthly invoice

   4.1.2. Performance Objective: Completion and Accuracy of required documentation and/or Reports.


      4.1.2.1 Measure 2: Documentation / Reports are submitted timely and with
      minimal errors.


      4.1.2.2. Surveillance:  The KO, or designee, will perform 100% inspections to determine whether documentation / reports are submitted
      within specified time limits and whether quality of documentation / reports is acceptable.


      4.1.2.3. Acceptable performance level: At least 98% of Documentation / Reports are to be submitted within five (5) working days of
      completion of the respective project / task.  A weekly report shall be provided which provides a summary of work completed and any issues
      that could not be resolved or suspense that was not met and an explanation for the delay.  All documentation shall be accurate and
      complete.


      4.1.2.4. Penalty: 1% of the total monthly invoice



   4.1.3. Performance Objective:  Tracking of IAT Level certifications


      4.1.3.1. Measure 3:  Contract employees’ IAT Level certifications are provided and updated on a continuous basis.


      4.1.3.2. Surveillance:  The KO, or designee, will perform 100% inspections when reports are submitted detailing the appropriate
   information.


      4.1.3.3. Acceptable performance level:  100% of the time, reports shall be submitted on the 5th of each month detailing the incumbents
   current IAT Level certification(s), date(s) of certification(s), date(s) of certification(s) expiration, scheduled upcoming IAT Level
   training, and plan of action for replacing any employee whose certification is expiring and is not scheduled for re-certification.


      4.1.3.4. Penalty:  2% of the total monthly invoice..


5.0.0. The table below summarizes the performance factors, APL’s, and penalties.

|Performance metric /      |Goal                 |Acceptable Performance level (APL)|Surveillance method(s) used to |Monthly penalty /      |
|Evaluation Factor         |                     |                                  |determine performance level    |deduction if APL is not|
|                          |                     |                                  |                               |met                    |
|Timely completion of      |All Projects / tasks |At least 98% of assigned projects |100%  inspection               |2%                     |
|assigned projects and     |completed within     |/ tasks are completed by due date.|                               |                       |
|tasks.                    |designated time frame|                                  |                               |                       |
|Required documentation /  |Submitted on time    |98% of documentation / reports are|100% inspection                |1%                     |
|reports                   |                     |submitted to the COTR within 5    |                               |                       |
|                          |                     |days of project / task completion |                               |                       |
|IAT Level Certification   |All employees        |100% completion of monthly        |100% inspection                |2%                     |
|tracking                  |maintain required    |tracking report                   |                               |                       |
|                          |certification levels |                                  |                               |                       |

6.0.0. Documentation

6.0.1. The KO, or designee, will maintain a complete Quality Assurance file.  The file will contain copies of all reports, evaluations,
recommendations, and any actions related to the Government’s performance of the quality assurance function, including the originals of all
Surveillance Activity Checklists.  All such records will be retained for the life of this contract.



Present/Past Performance Questionnaire



ATTACHMENT 5 to REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) SP3300-14-R-0003



PART I – BACKGROUND

The RFP has been issued to solicit offers that would provide the best value to the Government for the requirements of the procurement.  The specific RFP requirements may be referenced at .  The place of performance for contract start-up is New Cumberland PA, the customer for the contract is DLA Information Operations, and the contract will be for Share point and Web Content Management Support services.  A company that is interested in providing an offer on the RFP has requested that your firm complete this present/past performance questionnaire and submit it to the following:



DLA DISTRIBUTION

ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER

ACQUISTION OPERATIONS

5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404

NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059

			



PART II – QUESTIONNAIRE INSTRUCTIONS

This questionnaire covers the topics that are in line with the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).  This questionnaire is designed to provide basic information regarding the Contractor’s present/past performance results on the contracts they have been awarded with your company and your satisfaction with their performance.  



RATERS PLEASE NOTE:  Per DOD policy, a fundamental principle of assigning ratings is that contractors will not be assessed a lower than Satisfactory rating solely for not performing beyond the requirement of the contract.   



Please use the following guide in preparing your response to the below questions:  



Exceptional

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.

Note:  To justify an Exceptional rating, identify multiple significant events and state how they were of benefit to the Government.  A singular benefit, however, could be of such magnitude that it alone constitutes an Exceptional rating.  Also there should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.



Very Good

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor was effective. 

Note:  To justify a Very Good rating, identify a significant event and state how it was a benefit to the Government.  There should have been no significant weaknesses identified.



Satisfactory

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear to be or were satisfactory.  

Note:  To justify a Satisfactory rating, there should have been only minor problems, or major problems the contractor recovered from without impact to the contract.  There should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.  



Marginal

Definition:  Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented.

Note:  To justify Marginal performance, identify a significant event in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A Marginal rating should be supported by referencing the management tool that notified the contractor of the contractual deficiency (e.g., management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency report or letter).



Unsatisfactory 

Definition:  Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains a serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective.

Note:  To justify an Unsatisfactory rating, identify multiple significant events in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A singular problem, however, could be of such serious magnitude that it alone constitutes an unsatisfactory rating.  An Unsatisfactory rating should be supported by referencing the management tools used to notify the contractor of the contractual deficiencies (e.g., management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency reports, or letters).



Not Applicable 

Definition:  Did not apply to this acquisition; or, questionnaire respondent has no knowledge of, and/or did not observe, the contractor’s performance in this area.





PART III - PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 



Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:

In addition, please provide a justification for rating given if above or below satisfactory.



1.  QUALITY OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE:

Justification for Rating:  





2.  TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE:

Justification for Rating:  





3.  COST CONTROL:  

Justification for Rating:  





4.  GOOD BUSINESS RELATIONS:

Justification for Rating:  





5.  MANAGEMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL:

Justification for Rating: 

 



6.  UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS:  (ONLY APPLICABLE TO LARGE BUSINESS CONTRACTORS)

 Justification for Rating:  





7.  ANY ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, i.e., SAFETY, SECURITY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE, MAINTENANCE OF GFE, etc.: 

Justification for Rating:  





Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:

In addition, please provide an explanation when necessary.



8.  MEETS MOST ACCEPTABLE PERFORMANCE LEVELS (APLs) AND/OR CONTRACT QUALITY STANDARDS:

If no, please explain:





9.  RESPONDS TO COMPLAINTS IN A TIMELY MANNER:

If no, please explain:





10.  DISPUTES THE SCOPE OF THE REQUIREMENT:

If yes, please explain:





11.  SUBMITS REASONABLE PRICE PROPOSALS ON CONTRACT CHANGES:

If no, please explain:







12.  HAS PROBLEMS WITH PAYROLL, PAYING FOR SUPPLIES, OR SUBCONTRACTORS:

If yes, please explain:





13.  DIFFICULT WHEN NEGOTIATING CHANGES:

If yes, please explain:





14.  PRO-ACTIVELY ANTICIPATES, AVOIDS, OR MITIGATES PROBLEMS:

If no, please explain:





15.  BILLING IS TIMELY, ACCURATE, AND COMPLETE:

If no, please explain:





16.  IF GIVEN A CHOICE, WOULD YOU AWARD TO THIS CONTRACTOR AGAIN:

If no, please explain:





17.  PLEASE PROVIDE ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THIS CONTRACTOR’S PERFORMANCE, IF APPLICABLE:





PART IV - GENERAL PROGRAM INFORMATION

Please provide a brief description of the services/supplies provided under the contract administered by your organization:  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Contract Original Dollar Amount: ____________________

Contract Current Dollar Amount:  ____________________

Contract Original Period of Performance:  ______________ 

Contract Current Period of Performance:   ______________



Evaluator’s Name:  _____________________Evaluator’s Signature:  ________________________                                

Evaluator’s Title:  ___________________Evaluator’s Telephone Number:  ___________________

Agency or Business:  ______________________________________________________________ Address:  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

NOTICE:  WHEN COMPLETED, THIS QUESTIONNAIRE WILL BE CONSIDERED SOURCE SELECTION SENSITIVE INFORMATION IAW FAR 3.104.



Exceptional

Very Good

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



 Yes

NoSOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER See Schedule 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 1 OF 53

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

a. NAME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect calls) Phone: 717-770-7373 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS SMALL BUSINESS UNRESTRICTED OR

Brenda Delawder PNN0007 CODE SP3300

8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME 2014 JAN 30 11:00 AM SET ASIDE: 100 % FOR:

DLA DISTRIBUTION OFFICE OF PROCUREMENT - EBS 2001 MISSION DRIVE NEW CUMBERLAND PA 17070-5000 USA

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM EDWOSB 8 (A) NAICS: 541513 SIZE STANDARD: $25.5M 13b. RATING

11. DELIVERYFOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED

SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE RFP

SEE SCHEDULE 17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE 18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED OFFER SEE ADDENDUM 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES See Schedule 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or Print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or Print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012)
Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 33. SHIP NUMBER 34. VOUCHER NUMBER 36. PAYMENT COMPLETE 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY PARTIAL FINAL 37. CHECK NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

PARTIAL

FINAL

38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) BACK

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 3 OF 53 PAGES

NOTICE TO OFFERORS 1. This Request for Proposal (RFP) is being issued as a 100% Small Business Set Aside acquisition to establish a Firm Fixed Price, Performance Based Services contract to provide SharePoint Portal Server Administration Support and Web Content Management Information Technology (IT) support services at DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA. 2. DLA Distribution shall support DLA's effort to achieve cost savings of at least ten percent by conducting a competition for these services and may utilize the reverse auction price negotiation tool. Reverse auctioning shall be conducted in accordance with DLAD 15.408-90, which is included in this RFP in the Instructions to Offerors. 3. The period of performance will be one (1) base year and four (4) one (1) year options as follows: Base Period (Phase-In): 1 September 2014- 30 Septembe 2014 Base Period (Full Performance): 1 October 2014 ­ 31 August 2015 Option Year One (1): 1 September 2015 ­ 31 August 2016 Option Year Two (2): 1 September 2016 ­ 31August 2017 Option Year Three (3): 1 September 2017 ­ 31 August 2018 Option Year Four (4): 1 September 2018 ­ 31 August 2019 4. Due date and time for proposal questions is 11:00 AM Eastern Time on Thursday, 19 December 2013. Questions must be submitted in accordance with the instructions found in the solicitation. 5. Due date and time for proposal submission is 11:00 AM Eastern Time on Thursday, 30 January 2014. Proposals must be submitted in accordance with the instructions found in the solicitation. 6. Invoicing Instructions: Invoices shall be submitted on a monthly basis in accordance with the task order invoicing instructions, DFARS 252.232-7000, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (June 2012), and DFARS 252.232-7006, Wide Area Workflow Payment instructions (June 2012). 7. The Government is not soliciting for the "same old way" of doing business. The Government encourages proposals that will achieve savings through innovative processes. Furthermore, DLA Distribution personnel are working to eliminate unnecessary requirements and negotiating for a reduction in material prices. Therefore, your assistance is requested in not only reducing prices but also, request submitting all of your ideas for how to improve our buying processes to reduce material costs. 8. As noted in the Attachment to this RFP, DD Form 254, offerors are required to have a Secret Facility Clearance. The prime contractor must have a current or interim Secret facility clearance at time of solicitation closing, in order to be eligible for evaluation. The Government will not sponsor Secret facility clearances during solicitation or prior to contract award. Contract award will not be delayed because of pending security clearances.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 4 OF 53 PAGES

Form

SECTION B CONTINUED ITEM SUPPLIES/SERVICES NO. 0001 BASE YEAR Period of Performance: 1 Sep 2014 - 31 Aug 2015 PHASE IN PERIOD beginning 1 Sep 2014- 30 Sep 2014 for SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2.8 Firm Fixed Price BASE YEAR Full Performance: 1 Oct 2014 ­ 31 Aug 2015 SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2 Firm Fixed Price BASE YEAR Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. TOTAL BASE YEAR CEILING

QTY 1

UNIT MO

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

0002

11

MO

0003

UN

$1.00

$2,500.00

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 5 OF 53 PAGES

1001

PRICE OPTION YEAR ONE Period of Performance: 1 Sep 2015 ­ 31 Aug 2016 SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2 Firm Fixed Price OPTION YEAR ONE Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. TOTAL OPTION YEAR ONE CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR TWO Period of Performance: 1 Sep 2016 ­ 31 Aug 2017 SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2 Firm Fixed Price OPTION YEAR TWO Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the

12

MO

1002

UN

$1.00

$2,500.00

2001

12

MO

2002

UN

$1.00

$2,500.00

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 6 OF 53 PAGES

3001

contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. TOTAL OPTION YEAR TWO CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR THREE Period of Performance: 25 Sep 2017 ­ 24 Sep 2018 SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2 Firm Fixed Price OPTION YEAR THREE Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED

12

MO

3002

UN

$1.00

$2,500.00

4001

Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. TOTAL OPTION YEAR THREE CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR FOUR 12 Period of Performance: 1 Sep 2018 ­ 31 Aug 2019

MO

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 7 OF 53 PAGES

SharePoint Portal Server Admin Support and Web Content Management in accordance with PWS Para.2 Firm Fixed Price OPTION YEAR FOUR Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. TOTAL OPTION YEAR FOUR CEILING PRICE TOTAL CONTRACT CEILING PRICE (CLINS 0001 through 4002) END OF SECTION B

4002

UN

$1.00

$2,500.00

Part 12 Clauses Addendum

FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions ­ Commercial Items (Sep 2013): The following clauses are hereby incorporated by reference: FAR 52.203-3 Gratuities (APR 1984) FAR 52.203-12 Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010) FAR 52.204-2 Security Requirements (AUG 1996) FAR 52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (MAY 2011)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 8 OF 53 PAGES

FAR 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011) FAR 52.216-11 Cost Contract -- No Fee (APR 1984) (Applicable to CLINs 0003, 1002, 2002, 3002, and 4002 only) FAR 52.223-5 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (MAY 2011) FAR 52.223-10 Waste Reduction Program (MAY 2011) FAR 52.227-1 Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) FAR 52.227-2 Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007) FAR 52.228-5 Insurance ­ Work on a Government Installation (JAN 1997) FAR 52.237-2 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (APR 1984) FAR 52.237-3 Continuity of Services (JAN 1991) FAR 52.242-13 Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) DFARS 252.203-7002 Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights (SEP 2013) DFARS 252.204-7000 Disclosure of Information (DEC 1991) DFARS 252.204-7003, Control of Government Personnel Work Product (APR 1992)
DFARS 252.205-7000 Provision of Information to Cooperative Agreement Holders (Dec 1991) DFARS 252.209-7004 Subcontracting with Firms That Are Owned or Controlled by the Government of a Terrorist Country (DEC 2006)

DFARS 252.223-7006 Prohibition on Storage and Disposal of Toxic and Hazardous Materials (APR 2012) DFARS 252.226-7001, Utilization of Indian Organizations, Indian Owned Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns (SEP 2004) DFARS 252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (JUN 2012) DFARS 252.232-7010 Levies on Contract Payments (DEC 2006)
DFARS 252.239-7001 Information Assurance Contractor Training and Certification (JAN 2008)

DFARS 252.243-7002 Requests for Equitable Adjustments (Dec 2012) DFARS 252.244-7000, Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Jun 2013) The following clauses are hereby incorporated by full text:
FAR 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 9 OF 53 PAGES

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days of the last day of any option period.
FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years and six (6) (months). (End of Clause) FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j-336/icps.htm . (This page can also be reached by accessing the J-71 Web page at http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j336/logisticspolicy/procurementlinks2.htm and selecting "Go to FAR/DFARS & Local Clauses." http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ (End of Clause) DFARS 252.201-7000 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 1991) (a) Definition. "Contracting officer's representative" means an individual designated in accordance with subsection 201.602-2 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions. (b) If the Contracting Officer designates a contracting officer's representative (COR), the Contractor will receive a copy of the written designation. It will specify the extent of the COR's authority to act on behalf of the contracting officer. The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or changes that will affect price, quality, quantity, delivery, or any other term or condition of the contract. (End of clause)

DFARS 252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (JUN 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- "Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC)" is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization. "Document type" means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF). "Local processing office (LPO)" is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system. (b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports. (c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall--

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 10 OF 53 PAGES

(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the Central Contractor Registration at https://www.acquisition.gov; and (2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for selfregistration available at this web site. (d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the "Web Based Training" link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/ (e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol. (f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract/order: (1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s). 2-in-1 Invoice Note: If a "Combo" document type is identified but not supportable by the Contractor's business systems, an "Invoice" (stand-alone) and "Receiving Report" (stand-alone) document type may be used instead.) (2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the contracting officer. Not Applicable (3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the system. Routing Data Table* Field Name in WAWF Data to be entered in WAWF Pay Official DoDAAC Issue By DoDAAC Admin DoDAAC Inspect By DoDAAC Ship To Code Ship From Code Mark For Code Service Approver (DoDAAC) Service Acceptor (DoDAAC) Accept at Other DoDAAC LPO DoDAAC DCAA Auditor DoDAAC
SP3300 SP3300 SP3300 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A SP3300 N/A N/A N/A

N/A Other DoDAAC(s) (4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request. (5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the e-mail address identified below in the "Send Additional Email Notifications" field of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system. Cindy.Markle@dla.mil; brenda.delawder@dla.mil (g) WAWF point of contact.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 11 OF 53 PAGES

(1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's WAWF point of contact. Ken Decker at Kenneth.decker@dla.mil (2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988. (End of clause) DLAD 52.204-9000 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (MAR 2012) (a) Work to be performed under this contract or task order may, in full or in part, be performed at the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Headquarters (HQ) or other DLA field activity office(s), with physical access to a Federally-controlled facility. Prior to beginning work on a contract, DLA and its field activity offices require all contractor personnel working on the Federally-controlled facility to have a favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI) or NACI equivalent. (b) Additionally, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Programs, and DLA Issuance 4314, Personnel Security Program, all DoD Contractor personnel who have access to Federally-controlled information systems must be assigned to positions which are designated at one of three information technology (IT) levels, each requiring a certain level of investigation and clearance, as follows: (1) IT-I for an IT position requiring a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) or SSBI equivalent; (2) IT-II for an IT position requiring a National Agency Check with Law and Credit (NACLC) or NACLC equivalent; and (3) IT-III for an IT position requiring a NACI or equivalent. Note: IT levels will be designated according to the criteria in DoD 5200.2-R. (c) Previously completed security investigations may be accepted by the Government in lieu of new investigations if determined by the DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office to be essentially equivalent in scope to the contract requirements. The length of time elapsed since the previous investigation will also be considered in determining whether a new investigation is warranted. To assist the Government in making this determination, the Contractor must provide the following information to the respective DLA Personnel Security Office immediately upon receipt of the contract. This information must be provided for each Contractor employee who will perform work on a Federally-controlled facility and/or will require access to Federallycontrolled information systems: (1) Full name, with middle name, as applicable, with social security number; (2) Citizenship status with date and place of birth; (3) Proof of the individual's favorably adjudicated background investigation or NACI, consisting of identification of the type of investigation performed, date of the favorable adjudication, and name of the agency that performed the investigation; (4) Company name, address, phone and fax numbers with email address; (5) Location of on-site workstation or phone number if off-site (if known by the time of award); and (6) Delivery order or contract number and expiration date; and name of the Contracting Officer. (d) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor is notified as soon as a determination is made by the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office regarding acceptance of the previous investigation and clearance level. (1) If a new investigation is deemed necessary, the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be notified by the respective DLA Personnel Security Office after appropriate checks in DoD databases have been made. (2) If the Contractor employee requires access to classified information and currently does not have the appropriate clearance level and/or an active security clearance, the DLA Personnel Security Office will relay this information to the Contractor and Contracting Officer for further action. (3) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the respective DLA Personnel Security Office initiates the investigation for the required clearance level(s) of the Contractor personnel.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 12 OF 53 PAGES

(4) It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that adequate information is provided and that each Contractor employee completes the appropriate paperwork, as required either by the Contracting Officer or the DLA Personnel Security Office, in order to begin the investigation process for the required clearance level. (e) The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that each Contractor employee assigned to the position has the appropriate security clearance level. (f) The Contractor shall submit each request for IT access and investigation through the contracting officer to the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office. Requests shall include the following information and/or documentation: (1) Standard Form (SF) 85, Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or the SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions (see note below); (2) Proof of citizenship (i.e., an original or a certified copy of a birth certificate, passport, or naturalization certificate); and (3) Form FD-258, fingerprint card (however, fingerprinting can be performed by the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office). (Note to (f)(1) above: An investigation request is facilitated through use of the SF 85 or the SF 86. These forms with instructions as well as the Optional Form (OF) 306, Declaration for Federal Employment, which is required with submission of the SF85 or SF 86, are available at the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) system called Electronic ­Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Hard copies of the SF85 and SF86 are available at OPM's web-site, www.opm.gov, but hard copies of the forms are not accepted.) (g) Required documentation, listed above in paragraphs (f) (1) through (3), must be provided by the Contractor as directed by the Contracting Officer to the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office at the time of fingerprinting or prior to the DLA Security Office releasing the investigation to the Office of Personnel Management. (h) Upon completion of the NACI, NACLC, SSBI, or other sufficient, appropriate investigation, the results of the investigation will be forwarded by the office performing the investigation to either the appropriate adjudication facility for eligibility determination or the DLA Intelligence Security Division for review and determination regarding the applicant's suitability to occupy an unescorted entry position in performance of the DLA contract. Contractor personnel shall not commence work on this effort until the investigation has been favorably adjudicated or has been waived into the position pending completion of adjudication. The DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office will ensure that results of investigations will be sent by the office performing the investigation to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) or DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office. (i) A waiver for an IT-I or IT-II position to allow assignment of an individual Contractor employee to commence work prior to completion of the investigation may be granted in emergency situations when it is determined that a delay would be harmful to national security. A request for waiver will be considered only after the Government is in receipt of the individual Contractor employee's completed forms. The request for a waiver must be approved by the Commander/Director or an authorized representative of the site. The cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office reserves the right to determine whether a waiver request will be forwarded for processing, however, there will be no waiver for an IT-III position. The individual Contractor employee for which the waiver is being requested may not be assigned to a position, that is, physically work at the Federallycontrolled facility and/or be granted access to Federally-controlled information systems, until the waiver has been approved. (j) The requirements of this clause apply to the prime Contractor and any subcontractors the prime Contractor may employ during the course of this contract, as well as any temporary employees that may be hired by the Contractor. The Government retains the right to request removal of Contractor personnel, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status whose actions, while assigned to this contract, who are determined by the Contracting Officer to conflict with the interests of the Government. If such removal occurs, the Contractor shall assign qualified personnel, with the required investigation, to any vacancy.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 13 OF 53 PAGES

(k) All Contractor personnel who are granted access to Government and/or Federally-controlled information systems shall observe all local automated information system (AIS) security policies and procedures as provided by the DLA site Information Systems Security Officer. Violations of local AIS security policy, such as password sharing, performing personal work, file access violations, or browsing files outside the scope of the contract, will result in removal of the Contractor employee from Government property and referral to the Contractor for appropriate disciplinary action. Actions taken by the Contractor in response to a violation will be evaluated and will be reflected in the Contractor's performance assessment for use in making future source selection decisions. In addition, based on the nature and extent of any violations of AIS security policy, the Government will consider whether it needs to pursue any other actions under the contract such as a possible termination. (l) The Contractor is also required to obtain a common access card (CAC) for each contractor employee in accordance with procedures established at the DLA HQ or field activity office. When a CAC is required, the Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor follows the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12. (m) Contractor personnel must additionally receive operations security (OPSEC) and information security (INFOSEC) awareness training. The DLA annual OPSEC refresher training and DLA annual INFOSEC training will satisfy these requirements and are available through the DLA Intelligence Office. (n) When a Contractor employee who has been granted a clearance is removed from the contract, the Contractor shall provide an appropriately trained substitute who has met or will meet the investigative requirements of this clause. The substitute may not begin work on the contract without written documentation, signed by the Contracting Officer, stating that the new Contractor employee has met one of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), or (i) of this clause, (i.e., acceptance of a previously completed security investigation, satisfactory completion of a new investigation, or a waiver allowing work to begin pending completion of an investigation). Contractor individual employees removed from this contract as a result of a violation of local AIS security policy are removed for the duration of the contract. (o) The Contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing, within 12 hours, when a Contractor employee working on this contract resigns, is reassigned, terminated or no longer requires admittance to the Federallycontrolled facility or access to Federally-controlled information systems. When the Contractor employee departs, the Contractor will relay departure information to the cognizant DLA Security Office so appropriate databases can be updated. The Contractor will ensure each departed employee has completed the DLA J6 Out-Processing Checklist, when applicable, for the necessary security briefing, has returned any Governmentfurnished equipment, returned the DoD CAC and DLA (or equivalent) badge, returned any DoD or DLA vehicle decal, and requested deletion of local area network account with a prepared Department of Defense (DD) form 2875. The Contractor will be responsible for any costs involved for failure to complete the out-processing, including recovery of Government property and investigation involved. (p) These Contractor security requirements do not excuse the Contractor from meeting the delivery schedule set forth in the contract, or waive the delivery schedule in any way. The Contractor shall meet the required delivery schedule unless the contracting officer grants a waiver or extension. (q) The Contractor shall not bill for personnel, who are not working on the contract while that Contractor employee's clearance investigation is pending. (End of Clause) DLAD 52.228-9000 INSURANCE (NOV 2011)
(a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire period of any resulting contract, including any extensions granted by contract modification, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance noted here: (1) Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability - $150,000 (except in states with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers' compensation to be written by private carriers.) (2) General Liability- $500,000 per occurrence CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 14 OF 53 PAGES

(3) Automobile Liability ­ Property damage $20,000 per occurrence, bodily injury $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence. (b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall provide a copy of all subcontractors' proofs of required insurance no later than five (5) days before each subcontractor commences work on the Government installation. (End of clause) ACCESSIBILITY OF E&IT PRODUCTS TO PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES (SECTION 508 OF THE REHABILITATION ACT) Unless otherwise specified, all products (supplies or services) furnished under this contract shall comply with the applicable Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR part 1194. CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORTING SYSTEM (CPARS) REQUIREMENTS (a) The contractor, in performing this contract, will be subject to a past performance assessment in accordance with FAR 42.15 and the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) training materials can be found at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/allapps/cpartrng/documents/CPARS%20Presentation.pdf. All information contained in the assessment may be used by the Government, within the limitations of FAR 42.15, for future source selections in accordance with FAR 15.304 where past performance is an evaluation factor. Assessments will be conducted as prescribed by CPARS guidance. (b) The contractor will be provided with a copy of the assessment. The contractor will have 30 calendar-days to submit comments, additional information, or rebut statements if warranted or desired. The contractor must strictly control access to the assessment while in the Contractor's possession and must ensure that the assessment is never released to persons or entities outside of the contractor's control. After receipt of Contractor's comments or expiration of the 30 day comment period, whichever occurs first, and depending on the Contractor's response the Government will: (1) If no comments are received; close the CPAR by the Assessing Official Rep and Reviewing Official; (2) If the Contractor concurs with the assessment; accept/update and close the CPARS and forward comments to all reviewers; (3) If Contractor does not concur with the assessment, coordinate a final response with Reviewing Official, Assessing Official Representative, and Assessing Official;. (4) Enter the final government response and close CPARS. (c) After completion of one of the appropriate actions, the Assessing Official will notify all individuals that the report is complete. The assessment is considered complete when signed by the Assessing or Reviewing Official. (d) The official responsible for the corporate operating unit being assessed can submit a written request to receive a copy of the completed CPARS assessment. The assessment is not subject to the Disputes clause of the contract, nor is it subject to appeal beyond the review and comment procedures described above and in the CPARS Guide. (e) Refer to http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/ for details and additional information related to CPARS, CPARS user access (which includes obtaining a PKI certificate), how contract performance assessments are conducted, and how contractors participate. ILLEGAL ITEMS NOT AUTHORIZED ON FEDERAL INSTALLATION Illegal drugs, guns or other contraband are not authorized on this Federal installation. It is the contractor's responsibility to ensure that its employees working on-site at this installation are U. S. citizens or legal aliens with no outstanding warrants. This installation is manned by a DoD Police Force who possesses apprehension authority, which includes holding suspects for local authorities. The local authorities can issue a citation that charges the individual with a specific offense and requires the individual to appear before a Federal Magistrate. This agency processes illegal aliens in accordance with INS instructions. MARK CONTRACT NUMBER ON ALL CORRESPONDENCE Contractor must mark the contract or purchase order number on all paperwork and shipments. The order number must appear on the exterior of the shipment. Failure to follow these instructions will hold up payment to you and could result in the return of merchandise at your expense. MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES The Contractor personnel are employees of the Contractor and under the administrative control and supervision of the Contractor. The Contractor, through its personnel, shall perform the tasks prescribed in the Performance Work Statement/Statement of Work. The Contractor shall select, supervise, and exercise control and direction over its employees under this contract. The Contractor shall not supervise, direct, or control the activities of the Government personnel or the employee of any other contractor, except any subcontractor employed by the Contractor on this contract. The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor in the performance of contractual services under this contract. The Contractor is accountable to the Government for the actions of its personnel. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST (a) The contractor shall be ineligible from participation as a contractor, subcontractor, or consultant in any procurement arising or resulting from any of the services provided to DDC on this contract. This restriction includes providing services to any potential bidders on such procurements. The contractor shall not incorporate its product or services in any statement of work or specification unless directed to do so in writing by the Contracting Officer.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 15 OF 53 PAGES

(b) If the contractor in the performance of this contract, obtains access to information such as plans, polices, reports, studies, financial data, internal data, or any other non-public information or information by the Privacy Act, the contractor agrees not to release such information without prior written approval from the Contracting Officer. The use of such information for personal gain is prohibited. (c) In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with any restrictions imposed on such information. FAR 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items (Sep 2013)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). _X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Aug 2013) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X__ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (41 U.S.C. 2313). ___ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Public Law 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ___ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (11) [Reserved]

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 16 OF 53 PAGES

__X_ (12) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). ___ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). ___ (13) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X_ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (15) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9. ___ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)). _X_ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (19) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ___ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 103355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f). _X_ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ___ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ___ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). ___ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 17 OF 53 PAGES

_X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X_ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (35) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-theshelf items.) ___ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (37) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011). ___ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ___ (40) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (Nov 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iv) Alternate III (Nov 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Sep 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (43) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2303 Note). ___ (44) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (45) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 18 OF 53 PAGES

___ (46) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (47) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (48) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (49) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (50) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (51) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (52) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). ___ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). ___ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 19 OF 53 PAGES

Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). (xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 20 OF 53 PAGES

(xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause)

CLAUSES ADDED TO PART 12 BY ADDENDUM

Attachments List of Attachments Description ATTACH.Attachment 2 Section 508 Compliance ATTACH.Attachment 3 DD 254 ATTACH.Attachment 4 QASP ATTACH.Attchment 5 PPQ ATTACH.Attachment 1 PWS File Name Attachment 2 - Section 508 GPAT Attachment 3- DD Form 254.pdf Attachment 4 QASP.doc Attachment 5 - Past Performance Revised PWS SharePoint and Web

Instructions to Offerors ADDENDA TO FAR 52.212-1 ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS ­ COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013) Reference paragraph (c) under referenced provision FAR 52.212-1. This paragraph is tailored to read as follows: (c) Period of acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers. The following paragraph under referenced provision 52.212-1 is hereby deleted: (d) Product Samples; (e) Multiple Offers (h) Multiple awards Provisions Incorporated by Reference: DFARS 252.203-7005 Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (Nov 2011) DFARS 252.209-7001 Disclosure of Ownership or Control by the Government of a Terrorist Country (Jan 2009) Provisions Incorporated in Full Text: DFARS 252.215-7008, Only One Offer (JUN 2012) (a) The provision at FAR 52.215-20, Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data, with any alternate included in this solicitation, does not take effect unless the Contracting Officer notifies the offeror that-- (1) Only one offer was received; and CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 21 OF 53 PAGES

(2) Additional cost or pricing data is required in order to determine whether the price is fair and reasonable or to comply with the statutory requirement for certified cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. 2306a and FAR 15.403-3). (b) Upon such notification, the offeror agrees, by submission of its offer, to provide any data requested by the Contracting Officer in accordance with FAR 52.215-20. (c) If negotiations are conducted, the negotiated price should not exceed the offered price. (End of provision)

FAR 52.215-20 -- Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data, Alternate IV (Oct 2010) (a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required. (b) Provide information described below: For CLIN 0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, and 4001 for Sharepoint and Web Content IT Support Services: Labor Categories Number of Productive Labor Hours per Labor Category Burdened Labor Rate for each labor category (End of Provision)
FAR 52.216-1 Type of Contract (Apr 1984) The Government contemplates award of a Firm Fixed Price, Performance Based Services contract resulting from this solicitation. (End of Provision) FAR 52.233-2 Service of Protest (Sep 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Joni L. Stephens, Acquisition Operations, DLA Distribution, J Ave, Building 404, New Cumberland PA 17070 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of Provision) FAR 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j-336/icps.htm . (This page can also be reached by accessing the J-71 Web page at http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j336/logisticspolicy/procurementlinks2.htm and selecting "Go to FAR/DFARS & Local Clauses." http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ (End of Provision)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 22 OF 53 PAGES

52.215-9023 Reverse Auction (Nov 2012) The Contracting Officer may utilize on-line reverse auctioning as a means of conducting price discussions under this solicitation. If the Contracting Officer does not conduct a reverse auction, award may be made on the basis of initial offers or following discussions not using reverse auctioning as a pricing technique. If the Contracting Officer decides to use on-line reverse auctioning to conduct price negotiations, the Contracting Officer will notify offerors of this decision and the following provisions will apply. (a) The award decision will be made in accordance with the evaluation factors as set forth in the solicitation. The reverse on-line auction will be used as a pricing technique during discussions to establish the final offered prices from each offeror. These prices will be used in conjunction with the evaluation factors stated elsewhere in the solicitation in order to make the award decision in accordance with the basis for award stated in the solicitation. (b) Following the decision to conduct discussions using on-line reverse auctioning as a pricing technique, the Contracting Officer or his/her representative will provide offerors determined to be in the competitive range with information concerning the on-line auction process. The Government intends to use a commercial web-based product to conduct the reverse auction. (c) Prior to or simultaneously with conducting the on-line reverse auction, the Contracting Officer may hold discussions with the offerors concerning matters appropriate for discussion, such as issues involving technical proposals or unbalanced pricing. (d) The lowest offeror's price(s) for each round of the reverse auction will be disclosed to other offerors and anyone else having authorized access to the on-line auction. This disclosure is anonymous, meaning that each offeror's identity will be concealed from other offerors (although it will be known to the Government; only a generic identifier will be used for each offeror's proposed pricing, such as "Offeror A" or "lowest-priced offeror"). By submitting a proposal in response to the solicitation, offerors agree to participate in the reverse auction and that their prices may be disclosed, including to other offerors, during the reverse auction. (e) The reverse auction system currently in use designates offers as "Lead," meaning the current low price in that auction, or "Not Lead," meaning not the current low price in that auction. In the event of a tie offer, the reverse auction provider's system designates the first offer of that price as "Lead" and the second or subsequent offer of that price as "Not Lead." Offerors shall not submit a tie offer, since this is inconsistent with the purpose of the reverse auction. If a tie offer is submitted, the "Not Lead" offeror that submitted the tie offer must offer a changed price; it will be ineligible for award if the final price in the auction is the tie offer price. (f) An offeror's final auction price at the close of the reverse auction will be considered its final proposal revision. No price revisions will be accepted after the close of the reverse auction, unless the Contracting Officer decides that further discussions are needed and final proposal revisions are again requested in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.307, or the Contracting Officer determines that it would be in the best interest of the Government to re-open the auction. (g) The following information is provided regarding the procedures to be followed if a reverse auction is conducted. (1) Each offeror identified by the Contracting Officer as a participant in the reverse auction will be contacted by Defense Logistic Agency's commercial reverse auction service provider to advise the offeror of the event and to provide an explanation of the process. (2) In order for an Offeror to participate in the reverse auction, such offeror must agree with terms and conditions of the entire solicitation, including this provision, and agree to the commercial reverse auction service provider's terms and conditions for using its service. Information concerning the reverse auction process and the commercial service provider's terms and conditions is embedded within the email notification sent by the on-line reverse auction pricing tool system administrator. (3) Offerors shall secure the passwords and other confidential materials provided by the commercial reverse auction service provider or the Government and ensure they are used only for purposes of participation in the reverse auction. Offerors shall keep their own and other offerors' pricing in confidence until after contract award. (4) Any offeror unable to enter pricing through the commercial reverse auction service provider's system during a reverse auction must notify the Contracting Officer or designated representative immediately. The Contracting Officer may, at his/her sole discretion, extend or re-open the reverse auction if the reason for the offeror's inability to enter pricing is determined to be without fault on the part of the offeror and outside the offeror's control. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 23 OF 53 PAGES

(5) The reverse auction will be conducted using the commercial reverse auction service provider's website as embedded in the email notification. Offerors shall be responsible for providing their own computer and internet connection. (6) Training: (i) The commercial reverse auction service provider and/or a Government representative will provide familiarization training to offerors' employees; this training may be provided through written material, the commercial reverse auction service provider's website, and/or other means. (ii) An employee of an offeror who successfully completes the training shall be designated as a 'trained offeror.' Only trained offerors may participate in a reverse auction. The Contracting Officer reserves the right to request that offerors provide an alternate offeror employee to become a 'trained offeror.' The Contracting Officer also reserves the right to take away the 'trained offeror' designation from any trained offeror who fails to abide by the solicitation's or commercial reverse auction service provider's terms and conditions. (End of Provision) DLAD 52.233-9000 Agency Protests (Nov 2011) Companies protesting this procurement may file a protest (1) with the Contracting Officer, (2) with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), or (3) pursuant to Executive Order Number 12979, with the Agency for a decision by the Activity's Chief of the Contracting Office. (b) Protests filed with the agency should clearly state that they are an "Agency Level Protest under Executive Order Number 12979." (c) Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) procedures for Agency Level Protests filed under Executive Order Number 12979 allow for a higher level decision on the initial protest than would occur with a protest to the Contracting Officer; this process is not an appellate review of a Contracting Officer's decision on a protest previously filed with the Contracting Officer. Absent a clear indication of the intent to file an agency level protest, protests will be presumed to be protests to the Contracting Officer. (End of Provision) DLAD 52.233-9001 Disputes: Agreement to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution (Nov 2011) (a) The parties agree to negotiate with each other to try to resolve any disputes that may arise. If unassisted negotiations are unsuccessful, the parties will use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques to try to resolve the dispute. Litigation will only be considered as a last resort when ADR is unsuccessful or has been documented by the party rejecting ADR to be inappropriate for resolving the dispute. (b) Before either party determines ADR inappropriate, that party must discuss the use of ADR with the other party. The documentation rejecting ADR must be signed by an official authorized to bind the Contractor (see Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.2331), or, for the Agency, by the Contracting Officer, and approved at a level above the Contracting Officer after consultation with the ADR Specialist and with legal. Contractor personnel are also encouraged to include the ADR Specialist in their discussions with the Contracting Officer before determining ADR to be inappropriate. (c) The offeror should check here to opt out of this clause: [ ] Alternate wording may be negotiated with the Contracting Officer. (End of Provision) Instructions to Offerors This acquisition will be negotiated in accordance FAR Subpart 12--Acquisition of Commercial Items and FAR 15--Contracting By Negotiations. Communications Between the Government and Offerors: Questions regarding this solicitation prior to proposal submission may occur for the purpose of clarifying elements of the solicitation. Questions concerning this solicitation shall be submitted by electronic mail to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder to Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil, with the subject: Solicitation SP3300-14-R-0003. Offerors shall submit any questions regarding the solicitation in an MS Word Table landscape format with the following column headings: Question RFP Page RFP Para Name of Firm POC Tel No. Fax No. e-mail

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 24 OF 53 PAGES

No information concerning this RFP or requests for clarification will be provided in response to offeror-initiated telephone calls. All such requests must be made by electronic mail in the format noted above and submitted to the above email address. Inquiries will be answered in writing and provided to all offerors. To avoid a delay in the procurement process, all questions regarding this RFP must be received by 11:00 a.m. eastern local time on Thursday, 19 December 2013. Questions received after this date and time may not receive a response. Proposal Submission Instructions: The hour and date for receipt of offers is 11:00 am eastern local time on Thursday, 30 January 2014. HARD COPY OFFERS MUST BE RECEIVED IN THIS OFFICE BY THIS DATE AND TIME. Facsimile and email submissions of proposals will not be accepted.

Proposals sent via US Postal Service shall be addressed to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder and mailed to:
DLA DISTRIBUTION ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER ACQUISTION OPERATIONS 5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404 NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059 Proposals sent via Commercial Carrier (i.e., FedEx, UPS, DHL, etc.) shall be addressed to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder and mailed to: DLA DISTRIBUTION ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER ACQUISTION OPERATIONS 5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404 NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059

Note: If packages are sent by commercial carrier, the package must be plainly marked ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE COMMERCIAL CARRIER'S ENVELOPE with the solicitation number, date, and time set forth for receipt of offers as indicated in Blocks 5 & 8, page 1 of the SF 1449. At this time, only FedEx and UPS provide express delivery to the office listed above.
Offerors should e-mail the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) the method in which they sent their proposal and any associated tracking information. If the offeror plans to hand deliver the proposal, the offeror shall contact the Acquisition Specialist via e-mail (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) at least one (1) business day in advance to coordinate the proposal delivery. 2. The packaging of the proposals AND EACH PAGE of the documents submitted must be clearly marked with the Offeror's Name and solicitation number and the following statement: "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY -- SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION - SEE FAR 2.101 AND FAR 3.104" If an offeror has any questions regarding this solicitation or believes that the requirements in this instruction contains an error or omission, the offeror shall immediately notify the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) in writing in the format provided in paragraph 1 on page 4 above. If an offeror believes that the requirements in this instruction are otherwise unsound, the offeror shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer, Joni L. Stephens (joni.stephens@dla.mil), in writing with supporting rationale. The offeror is reminded that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial proposal, as received, without discussions. Submission of a proposal that does not contain all of the items requested may result in elimination from consideration for award. Organization/Number of Copies/Page Limits: The Offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table below. The titles and contents and number of copies required for each volume are defined in this table. Proposals shall be submitted as four (3) separate volumes as follows: Proposal Organization Table VOLU ME I TITLE Technical Proposal PAPER COPIES Original & 4 CDs 1 PAGE LIMITATION No Page

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 25 OF 53 PAGES

Limitation Part 1: Introduction Part 2: Technical Capability (Factor 1) Section 1: Technical Approach (Subfactor (a)) Section 2: Phase-In Plan (Subfactor (b)) Section 3: 508 Compliance Requirements (Subfactor ( c)) Part 3: Management Capability (Factor 2) Section 1: Management Plan (Subfactor (a)) Section 2: Staffing Plan (Subfactor (b)) Part 4: Quality Control Plan (Factor 3) II III Past Performance Proposal (Factor 4) Price Proposal Original & 4 Original & 1 1 1 No Page Limitation N/A

Page Limitations: There are no page limitations for the proposal volumes. Cross-Referencing: To the greatest extent possible, each volume shall be written on a stand- alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with the minimum of cross-referencing to other volumes of the proposal. Information required for proposal evaluation which is not found in its designated volume will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal. Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is permitted where its use would conserve space without impairing clarity. Indexing: Each volume shall contain a more detailed table of contents to delineate the subparagraphs within that volume. Tab indexing shall be used to identify sections. Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms: Each volume shall contain a glossary of all abbreviations and acronyms used, with an explanation of each. Page Size and Format: The Offeror's proposal shall be prepared on standard 8.5 x 11 inch paper and submitted in three-ring binders. Except for the reproduced sections of the solicitation document and chart labels, the text size shall be no less than 10 point font. Use at least 1-inch margins on the top and bottom and ž inch side margins. Pages shall be numbered sequentially by volume. Legible tables, charts, graphs and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation schedules, plans, etc. These displays shall not exceed 11 x 17 inches in size. Foldout pages shall fold entirely within the volume, and may only be used for large tables, charts graphs, diagrams and schematics. Binding and Labeling: Each volume of the proposal shall be separately bound in a three-ring loose-leaf binder which shall permit the volume to lie flat when open. Staples shall not be used. A cover sheet should be bound in each book, clearly marked as to volume number, title, copy number, solicitation identification and the offer's name. The same identifying data should be placed on the spine of each binder. Offerors are advised to apply all appropriate markings including those prescribed in FAR 3.104-4, Disclosure, Protection and Marking of Contractor Bid or Proposal Information and Source Selection Information. Electronic Copies (CDs): The proposal shall also be submitted in CD-ROM format. Each volume of the proposal shall also be submitted on a separate CD-ROM. All CDs shall be readable on an IBM PC-compatible system running Microsoft Office 2007, including Microsoft Word 2007 and Microsoft Excel 2007. For each cost breakdown provided in Microsoft Excel format, the Offeror must show and establish clear identifiable links and calculations, such that the Government is able to understand and replicate the numerical data provided. Each CD shall be clearly labeled and each label shall state the Offeror's name, solicitation number, date of submission and the proposal volume (name and number) contained on the CD. If more than one CD is required for a volume, the CD shall be labeled as Disk "x" of "y", i.e. Disk 1 of 2. The requirement for the CDs in no way CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 26 OF 53 PAGES

relinquishes the Offeror's responsibility to provide hard copies of the cost proposal. If there are any discrepancies between the electronic version and the hardcopy version submitted in response to this Request for Proposal (RFP), the hardcopy (paper) version will be considered binding. Distribution: The originals shall be clearly identified as the "ORIGINAL", and bear the original signature(s) of the Offeror. The "copies" shall be complete and clearly identified as "COPY" or "DUPLICATE". Offerors are advised that the proposal is "For Official Use Only" and are considered "Source Selection Information" ­ See FAR 2.101 & 3.104. Table of Contents: A table of contents for each volume is required.

VOLUME I ­ TECHNICAL PROPOSAL The technical proposal should be written so that information technology oriented personnel can make a thorough evaluation and arrive at a sound determination as to whether the proposal meets the requirements of this solicitation. To this end, the technical proposal shall be specific, detailed and complete as to clearly and fully demonstrate that the prospective contractor has a thorough understanding of the technical requirements contained in the Performance Work Statement (PWS). Statements such as "the Offeror understands", "will comply with the statement of work", "standard procedures will be employed", "well known techniques will be used", and general paraphrasing of the PWS are considered inadequate. The technical proposal must provide details concerning what the contractor will do and how it will be done. This includes a full explanation of the techniques, disciplines, and procedures proposed to be followed. The technical proposal shall not contain any reference to price; however, information concerning labor allocation and categories, labor hours, consultants, travel, materials, equipment, and other information of interest to technical reviewers shall be contained in the technical proposal in sufficient detail so that the Offeror's understanding of the scope of the work may be adequately evaluated. The technical proposal shall be page numbered, contain a table of contents, be organized in the following sections, and address in detail the following: PART 1: INTRODUCTION

This section shall provide any necessary background information and an overview of the proposal which the Offeror believes will assist in the understanding and accurate evaluation of the proposal. PART 2: TECHNICAL CAPABILITY

The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of their technical capability in sufficient detail to evidence the Offeror's understanding of the PWS: SECTION 1: TECHNICAL APPROACH The Offeror shall submit a detailed description of their technical approach to perform each task in the PWS. The Offeror's technical approach must demonstrate an understanding of the requirements in the PWS and the ability to perform all performance tasks and objectives listed in the PWS while maintaining quality and timeliness. This cannot be a mere summary of the requirements stated in the PWS, but rather the Offeror's detailed approach to performing the requirements that clearly demonstrates his understanding of that work. The approach shall also address as a minimum the Offeror's:

Knowledge of the content of the work in terms of constituent activities, their inputs and outputs, and their interrelationships and interdependencies. Recognition of the appropriate sequence and realistic duration of the work activities. Familiarity with difficulties and uncertainties associated with the work.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 27 OF 53 PAGES

Discussion of potential problems, such as increasing utilization and present strategies dealing with them.
SECTION 2: PHASE-IN PLAN The Offeror shall provide a detailed phase-in plan, which discusses the Offeror's scheduling, phasing in all functional activities, and milestone dates for implementation. The phase-in period shall have a duration of no more than one (1) month. SECTION 3: 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS The Offeror shall provide a detailed narrative regarding the process by which the Offeror will address the 508 Compliance Product Requirements identified in the PWS Section 6.6 and attached GPAT SharePoint and Web Content Support. PART 3: MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of their management approach in sufficient detail to evidence the Offeror's understanding of the PWS:

SECTION 1: MANAGEMENT PLAN The Offeror shall describe their overall management methodology and how that methodology will translate into successful contract performance. The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of the responsibilities and authorities for operation management of this contract. The Offeror shall include such elements as lines of communication. The discussion shall address the processes for resolving priority conflicts of resources and tasks identified in the PWS. Additionally, the Offeror shall discuss the following: The interrelationships of the technical on-site team and the business management. All interfaces with the Government must be clearly delineated. The organizational structure, policies, procedures, and techniques for efficiently managing the work. The organizational layout for this contract. The Offeror shall provide an organizational chart specific to this effort, identifying all skill set positions by title. The organizational chart shall also identify the labor categories and the number of productive labor hours proposed per labor category. SECTION 2: STAFFING PLAN The Offeror shall list, in matrix format, names of all personnel proposed for assignment as discussed in Personnel Qualifications and Certifications section of the PWS, the labor category that they represent, their years of experience, degree/education, and their personnel qualifications and experience. In addition, the offeror shall submit the following information for key and non-key personnel: Personnel: The Government has established certain minimum requirements for personnel which are considered essential for contract performance. These minimums are specified in the Personnel Qualifications and Certifications section of the PWS. The offeror shall provide a listing of personnel and the labor category for which they are proposed. The individuals proposed must meet the qualifications specified for the labor category they are proposed for in accordance with the Personnel Qualifications and Certifications section of the PWS and the offeror shall certify to this fact. The offeror shall provide copies of all required certifications for Personnel. NOTE: If subcontractors are to be used, personnel shall be included in this section with the present company affiliation clearly identified. All of the requirements of this section shall apply to the use of subcontractor personnel, as well as the prime contractor's personnel.
PART 4: QUALITY CONTROL PLAN The Offeror shall provide an initial Quality Control Plan (QCP) in accordance with the PWS with their proposal. The QCP shall include an approach to maintaining acceptable quality standards throughout contract performance, and should address the methods for meeting the performance CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 28 OF 53 PAGES

standards, customer requirements, and complying with applicable regulations. The plan shall provide the quality control methodology, processes, techniques, and tools that will result in meeting or exceeding the performance requirements for quality and timeliness. The QCP should not be a reiteration of the Government's Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP), which is the Government's method for monitoring the quality of the Contractor's performance; instead, the QCP should be the Offeror's approach to ensure that the Acceptable Performance Levels are met and that quality is maintained throughout contract performance. VOLUME II ­ PAST PERFORMANCE The Offeror shall describe their background, knowledge and experience related to Information Technology Support Services. Of particular emphasis is performance that was executed in accordance with the same or similar scope and magnitude that is described in the PWS. Past performance information is used in determining the level of confidence the Government has for successful performance based upon the Offeror's actions under previously awarded, relevant contracts. The Government shall only consider relevant past performance data. To be considered relevant, the Offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of scope, complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, and schedule. The Offeror must demonstrate through past performance an ability to perform the work described in the solicitation. This is done by demonstrating that they have successfully executed at least three (3) contracts of similar scope and magnitude within the past five (5) years. Offerors shall provide a detailed explanation of the relevance of the contracts or efforts to the requirements as defined in the PWS. If subcontractor experience is provided as part of the three (3) most relevant contracts, it will be given weight relative to the percentage of effort being provided by that particular subcontractor in the offer submitted. The references will be evaluated in the aggregate in order to allow Offerors who may not have the entire scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement under one individual contract to still be considered relevant if experience with the full scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement can be demonstrated within the allotted number of references as described above. If an Offeror or its subcontractor determines they have no past performance data, they shall provide the following statement in lieu of the information requested below: "(Insert Offeror or subcontractor's name) has determined that they possess no past performance information in accordance with the RFP." To be compliant with this factor offerors shall provide the following information for both the Offeror and proposed subcontractors. (1) An index of previous contract data for the Offeror. The index shall contain three (3) or more PRIME contracts and SUBCONTRACTS that the Offeror is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. The index shall include: - Contractor Name - Name of the customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Length of contract - Period of performance (dates) - Initial Contract Price - Final Contract Price or price as of the last modification - Description of product/service provided (include sufficient detail to demonstrate the scope and complexity of the product/service provided) - Discussion of the similarities and differences of experience (include sufficient detail to demonstrate similarities/dissimilarities to the requirements of this solicitation) - Facilities in which the product/service was performed - Quality of Past Performance; to include a discussion of actual performance under each contract listed, including problems encountered; how they were resolved; the timeliness of deliverables required; how costs were controlled; business relationships; CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 29 OF 53 PAGES

management of personnel, and any other areas deemed necessary to provide insight into actual performance issues (2) A narrative synopsis that shall describe the specific nature of the work, similarities with the proposed work and the relevant experience gained. The narrative portion shall also indicate any occurrence of cost growth and/or schedule delays encountered. The appearance of cost growths and/or schedule delays on past contracts must be explained. (3) An index of Previous Contract Data for all subcontractors containing the information listed in (1) above as it relates to PRIME and SUBCONTRACTS that the subcontractor is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. (4) Completion of the Past Performance Questionnaire attached to this solicitation. Offerors and all subcontractors shall send this questionnaire to previous customers of prime and subcontracts. All questionnaires shall be submitted to the Government by the proposal due date and time identified in the solicitation. All previous contracts the Offeror utilizes for Questionnaire information must be contained in the Previous Contract Data index for the Offeror/subcontractor. The Offeror/subcontractor shall complete the Previous Contract Data index prior to submitting the questionnaire to the customer. The Offeror/subcontractor shall ask the customer to complete the questionnaire and return it directly to the Contract Specialist identified in the solicitation. Government evaluation members may contact the named individuals to clarify, obtain additional information, or conduct a telephone survey of past performance. As such, the Offeror/subcontractor shall provide a list of all Questionnaires submitted that provides the following information: - Name of the customer/agency - Date submitted to customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Whether the Offeror/subcontractor was a Prime or Subcontractor (5) Offerors and their subcontractors may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate technical excellence in the service requested. Examples of such awards or certifications include, the Malcolm Aldridge Quality Award, other Government quality awards, and private sector awards or certifications (e.g., the automobile industries QS 9000, Semitic's SSQA, or ANS/EIA-599). Indicate what segment of the company (division or entire company) received the award or certification and the date. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence the qualifications still apply. The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), responses received from the Performance Risk Assessment Questionnaire, data submitted by the Offeror, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the Offeror's past performance. Volume III: Price Proposal Completed Standard Form 1449. Signed acknowledgements of amendment (SF30). (Applicable only if any amendments are issued against this solicitation). Completed certifications and representations located at FAR 52.212-3 and in the section of the RFP entitled Representations and Certifications. The Contractor's Price Proposal shall be submitted for the period of performance in accordance with the Schedule of Supplies/Services CLIN structure as detailed in the solicitation. *Offerors must use the CLINs specified in the Schedule of Supplies/Services.* Subcontracting Costs: A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of total dollar threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. If the offeror is considered a "major subcontractor", the proposal shall include subcontract cost data in the same level of detail as provided for the offeror. Any subcontracting costs shall be supported. If this CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 30 OF 53 PAGES

information is proprietary to subcontractors, it may be provided under separate cover. However, it must be easily identifiable, readily combined with the rest of the proposal, and received within the timeframe (i.e. closing date) established for this instant solicitation. Price information for subcontractors who do not meet the definition of a "major subcontractor" is NOT being requested and will not be evaluated. (end of provision)

Evaluation Criteria

FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation ­ Commercial Items (JAN 1999) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Factor 1: Technical Capability Subfactor a: Technical Approach Subfactor b: Phase-In Plan Subfactor c: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Factor 2: Management Capability Subfactor a: Management Plan Subfactor b: Staffing Plan Factor 3: Quality Control Plan Factor 4: Past Performance Record Factor 5: Price The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose offer conforms to the solicitation using the Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA) source selection procedures in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.101-2, as supplemented. Technical tradeoffs will not be made and no additional credit will be given for exceeding acceptability. Proposals shall be evaluated for acceptability or unacceptability only and shall not be rated. Offerors must be determined to be responsible according to the standards of FAR Subpart 9 to be eligible for award. Award will be made to the acceptable Offeror with the lowest evaluated price, inclusive of options, which is deemed responsible in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), and the proposal conforms to the solicitation requirements. The requirements include all stated terms, conditions, representations, certifications and all other requirements of this solicitation. The Government intends to award without discussions; therefore, the initial offer should contain the Offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussion if determined necessary by the Contracting Officer. Offerors are advised that unrealistically low price, initially or subsequently, may be grounds for eliminating a proposal from competition either on the basis that the Offeror does not understand this requirement, or has made an incautious proposal.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 31 OF 53 PAGES

The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process. Proposals shall be evaluated for acceptability or unacceptability only and shall not be rated. Award will be based on the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for the non-price factors. Any Offeror who has submitted a technically acceptable proposal and who has been found to have an acceptable or unknown past performance will then have the proposal evaluated for lowest price. The following non-price factors shall be used to determine acceptability of a proposal:

Factor 1: Technical Capability Subfactor a: Technical Approach Subfactor b: Phase-In Plan Subfactor c: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Factor 2: Management Capability Subfactor a: Management Plan Subfactor b: Staffing Plan

Factor 3: Quality Control Plan Factor 4: Past Performance Record Factors 1 through 4 shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the Offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv), Past Performance Evaluation). Therefore, the Offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, "unknown" shall be considered "acceptable." To be considered acceptable and eligible for award, an Offeror must address separately all the factors set forth in accordance with the instructions of this solicitation. A major item and/or gross omission which preclude meeting solicitation objectives, that cannot be corrected prior to or during discussions without major revision or complete resubmission of the proposal, will cause a proposal to be found technically unacceptable. Proposals evaluated as "Unacceptable" on Factor 1, 2, or 3 will be ineligible for award and, if it is determined to be in the best interest of the Government to hold discussions, may be ineligible for inclusion in the competitive range. An initial proposal evaluation of "Unacceptable" in the Past Performance Factor (Factor 4) will not automatically eliminate an Offeror from the competitive range, but may be considered in making the competitive range determination if communications have been conducted pursuant to FAR 15.306(b)(1)(i). Communications shall be held with Offerors whose past performance information is the determining factor keeping them from being placed within the competitive range if the communications are necessary to allow them to address adverse past performance information to which the Offeror(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 32 OF 53 PAGES

It is the intention of the Government to award without discussions. However, if it is determined that discussions are required, then the determination of the competitive range will include all proposals which are considered to be technically acceptable and may include those that are considered to have a reasonable chance of being selected for award, unless the competitive range is further limited in accordance with FAR 15.306(c)(2). Those Offerors whose proposals do not fall into the competitive range will be notified as required by FAR 15.503(a)(1). Offerors will be notified in writing with a concise explanation of their proposal deficiencies without jeopardizing the competitive range. Those Offerors whose proposals are determined by the Contracting Officer (KO) to be in the competitive range will be contacted by the Contract Specialist for discussions. Discussions will be conducted in accordance with FAR 15.306(d). If verbal discussions are held they will be followed by a written reiteration of the discussion. Written discussions may also be held, whereby the Government will provide a written list of discussion questions to each Offeror, as appropriate. In the case of both verbal and written discussions, the Offeror will provide a written response to the discussion question and revision to the proposal as required. This response and revision (if required) will be marked accordingly to distinguish it as a supplement to their original proposal. More than one round of discussions may be held. At the conclusion of final discussions, the Government will request each Offeror in the competitive range to submit a Final Proposal Revision (FPR). The FPR will be evaluated as to its revised technical, past performance, and/or pricing approach in response to the issues identified during discussions. The Government then intends, in accordance with the evaluation factors for award set forth below, to award a contract to the Offeror who has submitted the lowest price technically acceptable proposal. After evaluation of the FPR, a proposal will be determined ineligible for award if Factor 1, Factor 2, Factor 3, or Factor 4 is/are evaluated as "Unacceptable". Factor 1: Technical Capability The Technical Capability Factor has two (2) subfactors: Technical Approach and Phase-In Plan. Both subfactors will be evaluated. The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if any of the subfactors are determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. Subfactor A: Technical Approach The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Technical Approach. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror must demonstrate a complete understanding of the PWS requirements and their ability to perform all performance tasks and objectives. Subfactor B: In-Phase Plan The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Phase-In Plan. To be acceptable, the Offeror's Phase-In Plan must demonstrate an approach that seamlessly phases in all functional activities within the timeframe allotted. Subfactor C: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the requirements for Section 508. EIT Information Content delivered as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508 requirements for
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 33 OF 53 PAGES

accessibility. EIT delivered must include a completed GPAT or VPAT, a sample of the GPAT is included as a part of this solicitation. Factor 2: Management Capability The Management Capability Factor has two (2) subfactors: Management Plan and Staffing Plan. Both subfactors will be evaluated. The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if any of the subfactors are determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. Subfactor A: Management Plan The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Management Plan. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror's Management Plan must reflect a clear understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the required results within the required time frame. This includes: an effective overall management methodology to manage the requirements of the PWS and an effective approach to resolve priority conflicts for the resources to ensure that the requirements of the PWS are met. Subfactor B: Staffing Plan The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Staffing Plan. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror's Staffing Plan must demonstrate a complete understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the required results within the required time frame. This includes: an effective use of personnel to perform the services and an effective approach to fulfill the staffing requirements of the PWS. Factor 3: Quality Control Plan The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if the Quality Control Plan is determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. The Offeror's approach to Quality Control will be evaluated to determine if the approach is acceptable. To be acceptable, the Quality Control Plan must provide assurance that quality and timeliness will be achieved. Factor 4: Past Performance The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), data submitted by the Offeror as part of the Past Performance Proposal, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the Offeror's past performance. Each proposal will be evaluated to the extent to which the Offeror has demonstrated an ability and willingness to perform: 1) A quality product or service (i.e. the conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship); 2) Timeliness of the contract with regard to completion of contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules and administrative requirements (e.g., effort that contributes to or affects the schedule variance); 3) Acceptable cost control with regard to the Offeror's effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract cost; 4) Good business relationships with regard to the timeliness,
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 34 OF 53 PAGES

completeness and quality of problem identification and resolution, Offeror's history of reasonable and cooperative behavior, customer satisfaction, timely award and management of subcontracts, and whether the contractor met their small/small disadvantaged and women owned business participation goals; and 5) Management of personnel with regard to demonstration of a commitment to the management of personnel with regard to the Offeror's performance in selecting, retaining, supporting, and replacing when necessary, personnel. The Government will only consider relevant past performance data of the Offeror and its major subcontractors. A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of total dollar threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. Subcontractors not meeting the definition of a "major subcontractor" will not be evaluated. To be considered relevant, the Offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, schedule, and scope. Additionally, the performance must have occurred during the last five (5) years. Offerors shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the Offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv), Past Performance Evaluation). Therefore, the Offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, "unknown" shall be considered "acceptable". Should the Government discover adverse past performance information to which the Offeror(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond, the Contracting Officer will conduct communications if deemed appropriate.

PRICE PROPOSAL Proposals determined to meet or exceed the acceptability standards for the non-price evaluation factors then will be evaluated for the lowest price. Price reasonableness will be determined through price analysis in accordance with FAR 15.402. The Government will utilize a comparison of proposed prices received in response to the solicitation. Normally, adequate price competition establishes price reasonableness (see FAR 15.403-1(c)(1)). In addition the Government may utilize a comparison of previously proposed prices and previous Government historical and commercial contract prices with current proposed prices for the same or similar items, if both the validity of the comparison and the reasonableness of the previous price(s) can be established. Award will be based on the lowest priced proposal that meets or exceeds the acceptability standards for the nonprice factors. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 35 OF 53 PAGES

offer), whether or not there are negotiations after it receipt, unless a written notice or withdrawal is received before award. (End of Provision)

Part 12 Provisions Representations and Certifications

52.212-3 -- Offeror Representations and Certifications -- Commercial Items (Aug 2013), Alternate I (April 2011) An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation," as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except--
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 36 OF 53 PAGES

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 37 OF 53 PAGES

Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 38 OF 53 PAGES

"Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAMwebsite. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 39 OF 53 PAGES

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture:

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 40 OF 53 PAGES

_____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 41 OF 53 PAGES

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 42 OF 53 PAGES

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act ­ Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act":
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 43 OF 53 PAGES

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 44 OF 53 PAGES

[List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 45 OF 53 PAGES

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 46 OF 53 PAGES

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: Listed Countries of Origin:
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 47 OF 53 PAGES

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [_] Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 48 OF 53 PAGES

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 49 OF 53 PAGES

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [_] TIN:_____________________. [_] TIN has been applied for. [_] TIN is not required because: [_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government; (4) Type of organization. [_] Sole proprietorship; [_] Partnership; [_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [_] Foreign government; [_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [_] Other ____________________. (5) Common parent. [_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent: [_] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________________________ TIN ______________________________________ (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 50 OF 53 PAGES

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 51 OF 53 PAGES

Alternate I (Apr 2011). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(12) to the basic provision: (12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory or the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (End of Provision) 52.209-7 ­ Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceeding at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 52 OF 53 PAGES

"Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [_] has [_] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the System for Award Management database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision)

252.225-7031 Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel (Jun 2005) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision--

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0003

PAGE 53 OF 53 PAGES

(1) "Foreign person" means any person (including any individual, partnership, corporation, or other form of association) other than a United States person. (2) "United States" means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, outlying areas, and the outer Continental Shelf as defined in 43 U.S.C. 1331. (3) "United States person" is defined in 50 U.S.C. App. 2415(2) and means-- (i) Any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States who is employed by other than a United States person); (ii) Any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern); and (iii) Any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern that is controlled in fact by such domestic concern. (b) Certification. If the offeror is a foreign person, the offeror certifies, by submission of an offer, that it-- (1) Does not comply with the Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel; and (2) Is not taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the Secondary Boycott of Israel by Arab countries, which 50 U.S.C. App. 2407(a) prohibits a United States person from taking. (End of provision)

PROVISIONS ADDED TO PART 12 BY ADDENDUM

