<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

RATING

PAGE OF PAGES

1
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED

126

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
7. ISSUED BY CODE

SEALED BID (IFB) X NEGOTIATED (RFP)

11/29/2012

ASG - DMSC

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

CMS,OAGM,ASG,DMSC 7500 SECURITY BLVD., MS: B3-30-03 BALTIMORE MD 21244-1850

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and depository located in

10 B3-30-03

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the until

1400 ES
(Hour)

local time

01/10/2013
(Date)

CAUTION: LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.
10. FOR INFORMATION CALL:

A. NAME AREA CODE

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) NUMBER EXT.

C. E-MAIL ADDRESS

Christina Eberhart
11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
DESCRIPTION PAGE(S) (X) SEC. DESCRIPTION

See attached

(X)

SEC.

PAGE(S)

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2-4 5 6 7 8 9-22 23-45

X X

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

46-56 57 58-72 73-113 114-26

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X X X

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

L M

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within ______________ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232.8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR CODE FACILITY 16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print) AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) CALENDAR DAYS (%)

15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20. AMOUNT

21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) ) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c) ( CODE )

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

MARK SMOLENSKI
(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable
STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS
B.1 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES

The purpose of this contract is to support the federally-facilitated Exchange (FFE) and statebased Exchanges (SBEs) for the Eligibility Support tasks under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act) of 2010. The tasks in the associated Statement of Work (SOW) include the intake, routing, review, and troubleshooting of applications submitted for enrollment into a Qualified Health Plan (QHP) and for insurance affordability programs including, but not limited to, Advance Payment of Premium Tax Credits, Cost-Sharing Reductions, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and the Basic Health Program (where applicable), beginning on October 1, 2013. B.2 TYPE OF CONTRACT

This is cost-plus-fixed-fee (CPFF) contract. The Government reserves the right to change the contract type from CPFF to any other contract type that is deemed appropriate by the Contracting Officer. B.3 SCHEDULE

The following schedule delineates the estimated cost and fixed fee for each period of performance:
ESTIMATED COST BASE PERIOD Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total Base Period ESTIMATED COST OPTION PERIOD 1 Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total Option Period 1 FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF

2 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ESTIMATED COST OPTION PERIOD 2 Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total Option Period 2 ESTIMATED COST OPTION PERIOD 3 Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total Option Period 3 ESTIMATED COST OPTION PERIOD 4 Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total Option Period 4 ESTIMATED COST TOTAL Required Tasks Optional Tasks Total FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF FIXED FEE TOTAL CPFF

The Total CPFF shown above includes the fixed fee and estimated costs associated with all required tasks and optional tasks in Attachment J-1, Statement of Work. As further explained in the Statement of Work, optional tasks may be exercised at the Government's discretion at any point during the period of performance of the contract. B.4 FIXED FEE PAYMENT SCHEDULE

The fixed fee set forth in this contract will be paid in installments at the time of each monthly provisional payment. The amount of each such fixed fee installment shall be paid at the same ratio as the total fixed fee is to total estimated costs.

3 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
B.5 HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION (HHSAR) 352.232-71 ESTIMATED COST - INCREMENTALLY FUNDED CONTRACT (JUNE 2010)

(a) The total estimated cost to the Government for full performance of this contract, including all allowable direct and indirect costs, is $TBD. (b) The following represents the schedule by which the Government expects to allot funds to this contract: TBD (c) Total funds currently obligated and available for payment under this contract are $TBD. (d) The Contracting Officer may issue unilateral modifications to obligate additional funds to the contract and make related changes to paragraphs (b) and/or (c) above. (e) Until this contract is fully funded, the requirements of the clause at FAR 52.232­22, Limitation of Funds, shall govern. Once the contract is fully funded, the requirements of the clause at FAR 52.232-20, Limitation of Cost, govern.

4 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT
C.1 STATEMENT OF WORK

The attached Statement of Work (See Attachment J-1) provides requirements which the Contractor is expected to accomplish to meet minimum contract needs. Independently, and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish the necessary services, personnel, materials, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform this contract.

5 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING
D.1 PACKAGING, MARKING AND SHIPPING

All deliverables required under this contract shall be packaged, marked and shipped in accordance with the Statement of Work.

6 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE
E.1 FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: www.acquisition.gov NUMBER 52.246-5 E.2 a. b. TITLE Inspection of Services - Cost-Reimbursement DATE APR 1984

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE All work under this contract is subject to inspection and final acceptance by the Contracting Officer or the duly authorized representative of the Government. The Government's Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) is the duly authorized representative of the Government and is responsible for inspection and acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract. Inspection and acceptance of the Contractor's performance shall be in accordance with the applicable FAR clauses in Section E.1 above. APPROVALS BY THE CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR)

c. E.3

All items to be delivered to COR will be deemed to have been approved thirty (30) calendar days after date of delivery, except as otherwise specified in this contract, if written approval or disapproval has not been given within such period. The COR's approval or revision to the items submitted shall be within the general scope of work stated in this contract.

7 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE
F.1 FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: www.acquisition.gov NUMBER 52.242-15 F.2 TITLE Stop-Work Order (AUG 1989) - Alternate I DATE APR 1984

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The work and services required hereunder shall be delivered as follows: Performance beyond the base period may be authorized by the Government's right to unilaterally exercise the following option periods: (Note: Actual dates will be included at contract award) Base Period Option Period 1 Option Period 2 Option Period 3 Option Period 4 June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2014 June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015 June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 June 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017 June 1, 2017 to May 31, 2018

NOTE: The option periods delineated above may be executed in accordance with the option clause in Section I of this contract. F.3 TIME AND PLACE OF DELIVERIES

The deliverables to be furnished must be delivered in accordance with the deliverables schedules as specified in the Statement of Work.

8 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA
G.1 GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR)

The following COR will represent the Government for the purpose of this contract: [TBD] The COR is responsible for: (1) monitoring the Contractor's technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and compliance with all substantive project objectives; (2) interpreting the statement of work and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required; (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this contract; (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance; and (6) providing technical direction in accordance with Section G-2; and, (7) reviewing vouchers. The COR does not have the authority to act as an agent of the Government under this contract. Only the Contracting Officer has authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes in the statement of work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the Contractor any costs incurred during the performance of this contract; or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this contract. The Government may unilaterally change its COR designation. G.2 TECHNICAL DIRECTION

a. Technical Direction includes ˇ Directions to the Contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish the contractual statement of work. Provision of information to the Contractor which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work description. Review and, where required by the contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract.

ˇ ˇ

b. Technical direction must be within the general Scope of Work stated in the contract. The COR does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical directions which:

9 | Page

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general Scope of Work of the contract. Constitutes a change as defined in the contract clause entitled "Changes - Cost Reimbursement." In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total estimated contract cost, base fee, or the time required for contract performance. Changes any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract.

c. All technical direction shall be issued in writing by the COR or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within 5 working days after issuance. d. The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the COR in the manner prescribed by this article and within his/her authority under the provisions of this article. e. If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COR is within one of the categories as defined in (b) above, the Contractor shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing within 5 working days after the receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting Officer to modify the contract, accordingly. Upon receiving such notification from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the Contractor in writing that, in his/her opinion, the technical direction is within the scope of this contract. The Contractor shall thereupon proceed immediately with the instructions or direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto and shall be subject to the provision of the contract clause entitled "Disputes." G.3 CONTRACTOR'S PROJECT DIRECTOR

[TBD] will serve as the Contractor's Project Director. It will be his/her responsibility to obtain the staff necessary and to direct the work for the conduct of this project. The Government reserves the right to approve any necessary successor to be designated as Project Director. G.4 a. PAYMENT, SELECTED ITEMS OF COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS Travel Costs (Including Foreign Travel)

The Contractor shall be reimbursed for travel costs in accordance with FAR 31.205-46.

10 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
b. Per Diem Expenses for subsistence and lodging shall be reimbursed to the Contractor only to the extent where overnight stay is necessary for performance under this contract. Incurred costs shall be considered to be reasonable and allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed, on a daily basis, the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the Federal Travel Regulations. See FAR 31.205-46. c. Cost of Materials The cost of materials furnished or used under this contract shall be reimbursed in accordance with the clause entitled "Allowable Costs (FAR 52.216-07)" and FAR 31.205-26. The Contractor shall be required to support all material costs claimed. d. Direct Charge Relocation Costs In accordance with FAR 31.205-35, relocation costs, either direct charged or included in the contractor's indirect cost pools, associated with an individual not completing a term of service equal to one year working under this contract shall be an unallowable cost under this contract. G.5 BUSINESS MEALS

a. It is the Department's policy that OPDIVS and STAFFDIVS shall not use appropriated funds to purchase food (whether for conferences or meetings; for meals, light refreshments, or beverages; or for Federal or non-Federal participants). b. However, under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 31.2, contractor business meal costs are allowable when they meet the requirements for reasonableness, the terms of the contract, and certain other limitations. In no case, however, may the contractor bill for costs that are unallowable under the FAR. c. Reasonableness test must be met for any cost to be allowable. For example, is the cost (1) of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business or contract performance; (2) a generally accepted sound business practice; and (3) congruent with the contractor's responsibilities to the government and the public at large. Even if the nature of the expense is reasonable, part of the expense could be unallowable because it is excessive. d. The contractor is responsible for maintaining supporting documentation justifying any costs claimed. The contractor in advance of incurring business meal expenses must provide the following documentation to the Contracting Officer for review: 1. The contractor's internal policies, procedures, and internal controls on claiming contractor meal expenses as allowable costs;
11 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
2. An agenda that includes comments that business will continue during the meal; and, 3. The rationale used to determine the meal will be an integral part of the meeting. Immediately following the meeting, the Contractor shall provide notes of the specifics of business discussed during the meal. e. NOTE: This contract clause does not pertain to the meals portion of allowable costs incurred as part of the per diem expense allowed under the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR). However, Contractor employees on travel status must remove the cost of the meal(s) from their allowable per diem reimbursement when attending conferences or meetings where meals are included in the cost of a conference or meeting. G.6 DATA TO BE DELIVERED

a. Any working papers, interim reports, data given by the government or first produced by the Contractor under the contract or collected or otherwise obtained by the Contractor under the contract, or results obtained or developed by the Contractor (subcontractor or consultants) pursuant to the fulfillment of this contract are to be delivered, documented, and formatted as directed by the Contracting Officer. b. In addition, information and/or data, which are held by the Contractor related to the operation of their business and/or institution and which are obtained without the use of Federal funds, shall be considered "PROPRIETARY DATA" and are not "subject data" to be delivered under this contract. G.7 USE OF GOVERNMENT DATA

a. Any data given to the Contractor by the Government shall be used only for the performance of the contract unless the Contracting Officer specifically permits another use, in writing. Should the Contracting Officer permit the Contractor the use of Government-supplied data for a purpose other than solely for performance of this contract and, if such use could result in a commercially viable product, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor must negotiate a financial benefit to the Government. This benefit should most often be in the form of a reduction in the price of the contract; however, the Contracting Officer may negotiate any other benefits he/she determines is adequate compensation for the use of these data. b. Upon the request of the Contracting Officer, or the expiration date of this contract, whichever shall come first, the Contractor shall return or destroy all data given to the Contractor by the Government. However, the Contracting Officer may direct that the data be retained by the Contractor for a specific period of time, which period shall be subject to agreement by the Contractor. Whether the data are to be returned, retained, or destroyed shall be the decision of the Contracting Officer with the exception that the Contractor may refuse to retain the data. The Contractor shall retain no data, copies of data, or parts thereof, in any form, when the Contracting Officer directs that the data be returned or
12 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
destroyed. If the data are to be destroyed, the Contractor shall directly furnish evidence of such destruction in a form the Contracting Officer shall determine is adequate. G.8 INDIRECT COST RATES

a. In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.2167(d) (2), Allowable Cost and Payment incorporated by reference in this contract in Part II, Section I, the Contractor shall submit an adequate final indirect cost rate proposal to the Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA) and auditor within the 6-month period following the expiration of each of its fiscal years. b. Additionally, In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.216-7(e), until final annual indirect cost rates are established for any period, the Government shall reimburse the Contractor at provisional billing rates established by the cognizant auditor. c. For those contractors where DHHS is the CFA, DHHS has assigned the establishment of forward pricing, billing and final indirect cost rates to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for commercial organizations. d. The DHHS cognizant Contracting Officer representative responsible for negotiating provisional and/or final indirect cost rates is identified below: Director, Division of Financial Advisory Services Office of Acquisition Management and Policy National Institutes of Health 6100 Building, Room 6B05 6100 Executive Blvd. MSC-7540 Bethesda, MD. 20892-7540 e. CMS contractors, regardless of their Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA), shall submit their annual Incurred Cost Proposal (ICP) submissions to their CFA, and to CMS, Acquisition Policy Group, Division of Audit, Compliance and Contracts Closeout. f. In the event that the final rate proposal is submitted to a CFA other than DHHS, the Contractor shall also advise the CMS Contracting Officer in writing when and to whom it was submitted. g. To prevent substantial over or under payment, provisional billing rates should be revised as frequently as determined necessary by the Contractor. A copy of the Government approved provisional billing rate agreement shall be provided to the Contracting Officer.

13 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
G.9 FINAL INDIRECT COST CEILING RATES ­ ADVANCE UNDERSTANDING Indirect Cost Rate Description Allocation Base Final Indirect Cost Rate Ceilings

Contractor Fiscal Year ( )

Fringe* Overhead* Etc. * *As applicable to the contractor's accounting system By submitting a proposal, the Contractor agrees to indirect rate ceilings established at no more than 10 percent above the indirect rates offered by the Contractor at the time of proposal submission (For example, a rate of 20% X 10% = 2. The ceiling would be 22%.) up to a maximum of 5 percentage points above the indirect rates offered by the Contractor at the time of proposal submission. Pursuant to FAR Clause 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, this advance understanding sets forth final indirect cost rate ceilings as delineated in the table above. Contractor reimbursement of allowable indirect costs by the Government is limited to the final indirect cost rate ceilings. Where indirect cost rates exceed the final indirect cost rate ceilings set forth in this advance understanding, the contractor shall only be reimbursed at the final indirect cost rate ceilings. The Government is not obligated to pay any additional amount whereby indirect costs are incurred above the established final indirect cost rate ceilings. The contractor shall not recoup amounts occasioned by the incurrence of indirect costs above the established final indirect cost rate ceilings on other contracts or grants with the Government. This advance understanding shall not change any monetary ceiling, contract obligation, or specific cost allowable or disallowance provided for in this contract. G.10 CONSULTANT APPROVAL

a. The Contractor shall obtain prior written approval from the Contracting Officer whenever an individual and/or commercial entity is to be reimbursed as a "Consultant" under this contract. The term "Consultant" is defined in FAR 31.205-33. b. To obtain approval of proposed consultants, the Contractor must submit the following to the Contracting Officer: ˇ ˇ The necessity of contracting for the service, considering the contractor's capability in the particular area. The past pattern of acquiring such services and their costs.

14 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ˇ ˇ ˇ Whether the service can be performed more economically by employment rather than by contracting. The qualifications of the individual or concern rendering the service and the customary fee charged, especially on non-Government contracts. A written determination that the rate proposed for the consultant is fair and reasonable and the Contractor's statement regarding whether or not the fees paid to the Consultant will exceed the lowest fee charged by others for performing similar consulting services. A justification for the number of hours proposed for the Consultant. A copy of the contractual agreement for the service which shall include description of the service, estimate of time required, rate of compensation, termination provisions.

ˇ ˇ

c. The following consultants are hereby approved for the periods of time, rates and total amounts shown: NAME G.11 # DAYS DAILY/HOURLY RATE TOTAL AMOUNT

SUBCONTRACT REPORTING (CMS CLAUSE 10, JAN 05, 2005)

The Contractor shall report all subcontract awards to small, small disadvantaged, womenowned, HUBZones, veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns. The reports shall be prepared using the electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) via the internet at http://www.esrs.gov. The Individual Subcontracting Report (ISR), formerly SF 294, shall be submitted semi-annually for the periods of October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30. The Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR), formerly SF 295, shall be submitted annually for the period of October 1 through September 30. G.12 SUBCONTRACTING PROGRAM FOR SMALL BUSINESSES

a. The subcontracting plan submitted and approved by the Contracting Officer for this requirement is incorporated herein and made a part of this contract at Attachment J-3. b. The Contractor has established, in its subcontracting plan, the following goals for awards to small business (SB), small-disadvantaged business (SDB) concerns, women owned small business (WOSB), HUBZone small business, Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (DVOSB), and Veteran Owned Small Business (VOSB). (1) $ ____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $________ to small business concerns (including SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, DVOSB and VOSB),

15 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(2) $____of the total planned subcontract amount of $_________ to small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and (3) $____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $_________to small women owned business. (4) $____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $_________ to HUBZone small business. (5) $____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $_________ to veteran-owned small business. (6) $____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $__________ to service-disabled veteran-owned small business (7) $____ of the total planned subcontract amount of $________ to other than small business. G.13 SUBCONTRACT CONSENT

a. If the Contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is required as indicated in FAR 44.202-1. If the Contractor has a government approved purchasing system, consent is required for the following subcontracts: ˇ ˇ All cost reimbursement, time and materials, and labor hour subcontracts over $750,000. Fixed price subcontracts over 5% of the total estimated costs of the contract for the current period of performance.

b. To facilitate the review of a proposed subcontract, the Contractor shall submit the information required by the FAR Clause 52.244-2 entitled, "Subcontracts." c. Consent is hereby granted for the use of the following subcontractors: (To Be Determined) G.14 DESIGNATION OF PROPERTY ADMINISTRATOR

a. The Contractor is responsible for an annual physical inventory accounting for all government property under this contract. The inventory must be conducted by September 30th and the DHHS Form 565 Report of Accountable Personal Property submitted by October 31st of each year. b. The inventory report shall include all items acquired, furnished, rented or leased under the contract. Employees who conduct the inventories should not be the same individuals who

16 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
maintain the property records. Following the physical inventory, the contractor shall prepare an inventory report and submit the report to the CMS Property Administrator at the following address: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services OICS, Administrative Services Group Attn: Elias Bouloubassis Division of Property and Space Management 7500 Security Blvd, MS SLL-14-06 Baltimore, MD 21244-1850 c. The Contractor shall submit a consolidated report of all government property under this contract, including subcontractor inventory information. d. The final inventory report shall indicate that all items required for continued contract performance are acceptable and free from contamination. Property that is no longer usable or required shall be reported and disposition requested through the Contracting Officer via submission of a Form HHS-22. The final inventory report shall be submitted upon the date of contract expiration. G.15 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY

Pursuant to FAR Part 45 - Government Property and Clause 52.245-5 of this contract, the Government will furnish for performance of the work required herein items as specified in Section 6 of the Statement of Work. G.16 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S AUTHORIZATION (COA)

a. In order to efficiently document approval of property purchases and to facilitate invoice approval and final contract audits, a COA is required prior to the purchase of Contractor Acquired Property (CAP) over $10,000. b. Requests for a COA shall include: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Reason for the purchase and why it is appropriate. Complete listing of items to be purchased. Competing quotes if applicable or justification for sole source. Recommended Source Lease vs. Buy analysis or justification for its absence.

17 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
G.17 INVOICING AND PAYMENT

a. Submission of Invoices for Payment (1) Invoices shall be prepared and submitted as follows: (See Attachment J-4 for specific cost reimbursement billing instructions.) (a) Original and one (1) copy shall be submitted to the address below: Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services OFM/Division of Accounting Operations P .O. BOX 7520 Baltimore, Maryland 21207-0520 For Overnight Delivery: Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services OFM/Division of Accounting Operations 7500 Security Blvd., Mailstop C3-11-03 Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 (b) An electronic copy shall be sent to the COR and Contract Specialist. (c) Content of Invoice (If Applicable): ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Contractor's name and invoice date. Contract number or other authorization for delivery of property and/or services. Description, cost or price and quantity of property and/or services actually delivered or rendered. Shipping and payment terms. Other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract. Period of performance or delivery date of goods or services provided.

b. Invoice Payment (1) In accordance with FAR 52.232-33, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) shall only make an electronic reimbursement/payment. In accordance with FAR 52.204-7, the contractor must register in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. Failure to register in CCR may prohibit CMS from making awards to your organization.

18 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The contractor shall notify CMS' Division of Accounting Operations of all EFT and address changes in CCR via the following email address: CCRChanges@cms.hhs.gov (2) Reimbursement for invoices submitted under this contract shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the original invoice and requested copies from the contractor at the paying office designated in Section "a" above. (3) Payment will be authorized after the Division of Accounting Operations has audited the invoice for adherence to Federal regulations. This audit includes certification of the invoice by the COR and Contracting Officer and verification that the invoice amount is consistent with the payment schedule as set forth in the contract. Any discrepancies determined as a result of the audit could delay the processing of the invoice and may result in the invoice being returned to the contractor for corrections. c. Interest on Overdue Payment The Prompt Payment Act, 31 U.S.C. Chap.39 (Public Law 97-177) and FAR 52.232-25 Prompt Payment (Oct 2008), are applicable to payments under this contract. G.18 METHOD OF PAYMENT

a. Payments under this contract will be made by the Government by electronic funds transfer through the Automated Clearing House (ACH). b. In the event the contractor, during the performance of this contract, elects to designate a different financial institution for the receipt of any payment made using electronic funds transfer procedures; or a different method of payment, notification of such change and the required information must be received 30 days prior to the date such change is to become effective. c. Any changes shall be furnished to CCRChanges@cms.hhs.gov. It is the contractor's responsibility to furnish the changes promptly to avoid payments to erroneous addresses or bank accounts, or delays in payments otherwise properly due. d. The information provided to CCRChanges@cms.hhs.gov must be dated and contain the signature, title, and telephone number of the contractor's official authorized to provide it, as well as, the contractor's name and contract number. G.19 DISSEMINATION, PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION

a. Data and information either provided to the Contractor, or to any subcontractor or generated by activities under this contract or derived from research or studies supported by this contract, shall be used only for the purposes of the contract. It shall not be duplicated,

19 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
used or disclosed for any purpose other than the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract. This restriction does not limit the Contractor's right to use data or information obtained from a non-restrictive source. Any questions concerning "privileged information" shall be referred to the Contracting Officer. b. Some data or information may require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that preliminary findings which could create erroneous conclusions are not simulated. Also, some data or information, which relate to policy matters under consideration by the Government, may also require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that the open and vigorous debate, within the government, of possible policy options is not damaged. c. Any questions about use or release of the data or information or handling of material under this contract shall be referred to the Contracting Officer who must render a written determination. The Contracting Officer's determinations will reflect the results of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

d. Written advance notice of at least forty-five (45) days shall be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's desire to release findings of studies or research or data or information described above. If the Contractor disagrees with the Contracting Officer's determination, and if this disagreement cannot be settled by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer in a mutually satisfactory manner, then the issue will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause. e. Any presentation of any report, statistical or analytical material based on information obtained from this contract shall be subject to review by the COR before dissemination, publication, or distribution. Presentation includes, but is not limited to, papers, articles, professional publications, speeches, testimony or interviews with public print or broadcast media. This does not apply to information that would be available under the Federal Freedom of Information Act. f. The COR's review shall cover accuracy, content, manner of presentation of the information, and also the protection of the privacy of individuals. If the review finds that the Privacy Act is or may be violated, the release/use of the presentation shall be denied until the offending material is removed or until the Contracting Officer makes a formal determination, in writing, that the privacy of individuals is not being violated. g. If the review shows that the accuracy, content, or manner of presentation is not correct or is inappropriate in the light of the purpose of the project, the COR shall immediately inform the Contractor, in writing, of the nature of the problem. If the Contractor disagrees, the COR may insist that the presentation contain, in a manner of equal importance, materials which show the government's problem with the presentation.

20 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
h. The Contractor agrees to acknowledge support by CMS whenever reports of projects funding, in whole or in part, by this contract are published in any medium. The Contractor shall include in any publication resulting from work under this contract, an acknowledgement substantially, as follows: "The analyses upon which this publication is based were performed under Contract Number [ ], entitled, "[ ]," sponsored by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health & Human Services." Any deviation from the above legend shall be approved, in writing, by the Contracting Officer. G.20 AUDIT OF HOURS

In addition to the examination of costs, as detailed in FAR, 52.215-02, entitled "Audit and Records - Negotiation," the Contracting Officer or his representatives will have the right to examine all books, records, documents and other data of the Contractor relating to this contract for the purpose of evaluating the accuracy and completeness of the hours which the Contractor has recorded on his/her invoices as expended toward satisfaction of the requirements of this contract. G.21 CMS CONTRACTING PERSONNEL

The following CMS personnel are points of contact for this contract: Contracting Officer Mark Smolenski Division of Medicare Support Contracts Office of Acquisition and Grants Management Mail Stop: B3-30-03 410-786-0175 mark.smolenski@cms.hhs.gov Contract Specialist Christina Eberhart Division of Medicare Support Contracts Office of Acquisition and Grants Management Mail Stop: B3-30-03 410-786-1558 christina.eberhart@cms.hhs.gov

21 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) To Be Determined Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight Mail Stop: Phone: Email: G.22 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS (SDB) PARTICIPATION

In accordance with FAR 19.1202-4, when an evaluation includes an SDB participation evaluation factor that considers the extent to which SDB concerns are specifically identified, the SDB concerns considered in the evaluation shall be listed in the contract. The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any substitutions of these firms. The following small disadvantaged businesses have been identified: [To Be Determined] The following are the SDB participation targets for this contract: DOLLARS To Be Proposed PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL CONTRACT To Be Proposed

NOTE: Small Disadvantaged Business Concern is defined at FAR 2.101

22 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
H.1 SECTION 508 - ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (EIT) (CMS CLAUSE 01, MAR 01, 2004) a. This contract is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220). Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow all Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities. The EIT accessibility standards at 36 CFR Part 1194 were developed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board ("Access Board") and apply to contracts and task/delivery orders, awarded under indefinite quantity contracts on or after June 25, 2001. Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CRF 1194), as specified in the contract, as a minimum. If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing. The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing. If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following recourses: 1. Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase order, or line item without termination liabilities; or 2. In the case of custom EIT being developed by a Contractor for the Government, the Government shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed, by itself, or by another firm for the non-compliant EIT, with the Contractor liable for reimbursement to the Government for any expenses incurred thereby. d. The contractor must ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant with the accessibility standards are provided pursuant to extensive market research and are the most current compliant products or services available to satisfy this contract's requirements.

b.

c.

23 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
e. For every EIT product or service accepted under this contract by the Government that does not comply with 36 CRF 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either the planned refresh cycle of the product or service, or on the contract renewal/effective option date, whichever shall occur first. H.2 SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE FOR COMMUNICATIONS (CMS CLAUSE 01, MAR 01, 2004)

The contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below. In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and this contract, the contract shall take precedence. Rehabilitation Act, Section 508 Accessibility Standards (1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended) (2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards) (3) www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm (508 standards) (4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508) (5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508) In addition, all contract deliverables are subject to these 508 standards as applicable. Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced, including text, audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including subcontractors) or consultants responsible for preparing or posting content must comply with applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents above. Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the contract, shall be the responsibility of the contractor or consultant. The following Section 508 provisions apply to the content or communications material identified in this contract: ˇ 36 CFR Part 1194.21 a ­ l ˇ 36 CFR Part 1194.22 a ­ p ˇ 36 CFR Part 1194.31 a ­ f ˇ 36 CFR Part 1194.41 a ­ c The contractor shall provide a completed Section 508 Product Assessment Template and the contractor shall state exactly how proposed EIT deliverable(s) meet or does not meet the applicable standards. For software development, the Contractor/Developer/Vendor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:

24 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards (1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended) (2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards) 36 CFR Part 1194.21 (a ­ l) 36 CFR Part 1194.31 (a ­ f) 36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a ­ c) (3) www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm (508 Standards) (4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508) (5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508) a. Information Technology ­ General Information (www.cms.hhs.gov/InfoTechGenInfo/) For web-based applications, the Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below: Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards (1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended) (2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards) 36 CFR Part 1194.22 (a ­ p) 36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a ­ c) (3) www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm (508 Standards) (4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508) (5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508) Information Technology ­ General Information (http://www.cms.hhs.gov/InfoTechGenInfo/) H.3 CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION(S) (CMS CLAUSE 03 (REV #1 DATED OCT 01, 2010))

In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 42.15, CMS will complete annual and final contractor performance evaluations. Annual evaluations will be prepared to coincide with the anniversary date of the contract. Additional interim performance evaluations may be prepared at Contracting Officer discretion, as necessary. Final performance evaluations will be completed upon contract expiration. CMS will utilize the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) in order to execute annual and final contractor performance evaluations. CPARS is a secure Internet website located at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsmain.htm. CMS will register the contractor in CPARS upon receipt of the name and email address of two (2) individuals who will be responsible for serving as the Contractor's primary and alternate CPARS contacts. Once CMS registers the contractor in CPARS, the Contractor will receive an automated CPARS email message that contains User IDs and instructions for creating a password. Once a performance evaluation is issued, the Contractor's primary and alternate CPARS contact
25 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
will receive an email instructing them to logon to CPARS in order to review the performance evaluation. The Contractor has 30 days from the date of performance evaluation issuance in which to review the evaluation. If the Contractor is in agreement with the performance evaluation outcome, the evaluation becomes final. Should the Contractor be in disagreement with the performance evaluation outcome, rebuttal comments must be submitted via the CPARS within 30 days from date the evaluation was issued by CMS. Any disagreement between the Contracting Officer and the Contractor will be referred to the Deputy Director, CMS Office of Acquisition and Grants Management, whose decision will be final. Copies of each performance evaluation and contractor responses, if any, will be retained as part of the official contract file and will be used to support future award decisions. Evaluations will also be stored for a 3-year period in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) at www.ppirs.gov. Contractors may obtain CPARS training material and register for on-line training at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/allapps/cpcbtdlf.htm. There is no fee for registration or use of the CPARS. H.4 APPROVAL OF CONTRACT ACQUIRED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) (CMS CLAUSE 04, MAR 01, 2004)

a. The Contractor must obtain the Contracting Officer's written approval prior to the acquisition of any IT investments (see FAR Part 2.101, for definition of IT) to ensure compatibility and successful integration with CMS's infrastructure/architecture. b. In the performance of a system life cycle development project, the Contractor must submit to the Project Officer the technical specifications for each of the following incremental phase of the projected life cycle prior to the commencement of work: 1. Design and Engineering 2. Development, and 3. Testing c. Upon written approval from the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall commence work under the approved technical specification for the authorized incremental phase. d. In either instance of an approved IT investment acquisition, or an incremental phase of a system life cycle development project, the contract shall be modified accordingly and the Contractor shall proceed. e. CMS may disallow any contractor incurred cost that would not be allocated to the approved IT investment acquisition.

26 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
H.5 CODE OF CONDUCT (CMS CLAUSE 07, JUN 25, 2004)

SMOKING Effective June 9, 2004, smoking is not permitted anywhere on the CMS single site campus. This includes all areas outside the building, such as off-site facility, entranceways, sidewalks and parking areas. Smoking will not be permitted anywhere in Regional Offices or Washington, D.C. Office locations unless permitted by GSA guidelines or local landlord requirements. Contractor employees are subject to the same restrictions as government personnel. Fines up to $50 per occurrence will be issued and enforced by the Federal Protective Service. DRESS The preferred dress codes at CMS facilities are professional attire, business attire or business casual attire. H.6 HIPAA BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROVISION II (CMS CLAUSE 08, MAY 24, 2012)

a. Definitions: All terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning as in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA," 42 U.S.C. sec. 1320d) and the corresponding implementing regulations. Provisions governing the Contractor's duties and obligations under the Privacy Act (including CMS' data use agreements) are covered elsewhere in the contract. "Business Associate'' shall mean the Contractor. "Covered Entity" shall mean CMS' Medicare Fee for Service program and/or Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan. "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services or the Secretary's designee. b. Obligations and Activities of Business Associate 1. Business Associate agrees to not use or disclose Protected Health Information ("PHI"), as defined in 45 C.F.R. § 160.103, created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as permitted or required by this Contract or as required by law. 2. Business Associate agrees to use safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of PHI created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as provided for by this Contract. Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to use
27 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
appropriate administrative, physical and technical safeguards that reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the electronic protected health information ("EPHI"), as defined in 45 C.F.R. 160.103, it creates, receives, maintains or transmits on behalf of the Covered Entity to prevent use or disclosure of such EPHI. 3. Business Associate agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is known to Business Associate of a use or disclosure of PHI by Business Associate in violation of the requirements of this Contract. 4. Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any use or disclosure involving PHI it receives/maintains from/on behalf of the Covered Entity that is not provided for by this Contract of which it becomes aware. Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any security incident involving EPHI of which it becomes aware. The Business Associate shall report any violation in use or disclosure involving PHI or any security incident to CMS within one (1) hour of discovery in accordance with the "CMS Guide for the Incident Reporting Process" at http://cmsnet.cms.hhs.gov/hpages/oess/dgb/Incident_Reporting_Guide_CMS2010R.pd f (See also Section J, List of Attachments). In addition, the Business Associate will also notify the CMS Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) by email within one (1) hour of identifying such violation or incident. 5. Business Associate agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply through this Contract to Business Associate with respect to such information. Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to ensure that its agents and subcontractors implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards for the PHI received from or on behalf of the Business Associate. 6. Business Associate agrees to provide access, at the request of Covered Entity, to PHI received by Business Associate in the course of contract performance, to Covered Entity or, as directed by Covered Entity, to an Individual in order to meet the requirements under 45 CFR § 164.524. 7. Business Associate agrees to make any amendment(s) to PHI in a Designated Record Set that Covered Entity directs or agrees to pursuant to 45 CFR § 164.526 upon request of Covered Entity. 8. Business Associate agrees to make internal practices, books, and records, including policies and procedures and PHI, relating to the use and disclosure of PHI received from, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, available to Covered Entity, or to the Secretary for purposes of the Secretary determining Covered Entity's compliance with the various rules implementing the HIPAA.
28 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
9. Business Associate agrees to document such disclosures of PHI and information related to such disclosures as would be required for Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528. 10. Business Associate agrees to provide to Covered Entity, or an individual identified by the Covered Entity, information collected under this Contract, to permit Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528. c. Permitted Uses and Disclosures by Business Associate Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use or disclose PHI on behalf of, or to provide services to, Covered Entity for purposes of the performance of this Contract, if such use or disclosure of PHI would not violate the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules if done by Covered Entity or the minimum necessary policies and procedures of Covered Entity. d. Obligations of Covered Entity 1. Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any limitation(s) in its notice of privacy practices of Covered Entity in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.520, to the extent that such limitation may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI. 2. Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any changes in, or revocation of, permission by Individual to use or disclose PHI, to the extent that such changes may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI. 3. Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any restriction to the use or disclosure of PHI that Covered Entity has agreed to in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.522, to the extent that such restriction may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI. e. Permissible Requests by Covered Entity Covered Entity shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose PHI in any manner that would not be permissible under the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules. f. Term of Provision 1. The term of this Provision shall be effective as of date of contract award, and shall terminate when all of the PHI provided by Covered Entity to Business Associate, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, is destroyed or returned to Covered Entity, or, if it is infeasible to return or destroy PHI, protections are
29 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
extended to such information, in accordance with the termination provisions in this Section. 2. Upon Covered Entity's knowledge of a material breach by Business Associate, Covered Entity shall either: i. Provide an opportunity for Business Associate to cure the breach or end the violation consistent with the termination terms of this Contract. Covered Entity may terminate this Contract for default if the Business Associate does not cure the breach or end the violation within the time specified by Covered Entity; or,

ii. Consistent with the terms of this Contract, terminate this Contract for default if Business Associate has breached a material term of this Contract and cure is not possible; or, ii. If neither termination nor cure is feasible, Covered Entity shall report the violation to the Secretary. 3. Effect of Termination. i. Except as provided in paragraph f.2 of this section, upon termination of this Contract, for any reason, Business Associate shall return or destroy all PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity. This provision shall apply to PHI that is in the possession of subcontractors or agents of Business Associate. Business Associate shall retain no copies of the PHI.

ii. In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying the PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to Covered Entity notification of the conditions that make return or destruction infeasible. Upon such notice that return or destruction of PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall extend the protections of this Contract to such PHI and limit further uses and disclosures of such PHI to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as Business Associate maintains such PHI. g. Miscellaneous 1. A reference in this Contract to a section in the Rules issued under HIPAA means the section as in effect or as amended. 2. The Parties agree to take such action as is necessary to amend this Contract from time to time as is necessary for Covered Entity to comply with the requirements of the Rules issued under HIPAA.

30 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
3. The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under paragraph f.3 of the section entitled "Term of Provision" shall survive the termination of this Contract. 4. Any ambiguity in this Contract shall be resolved to permit Covered Entity to comply with the Rules implemented under HIPAA. H.7 SECURITY CLAUSE -BACKGROUND - INVESTIGATIONS FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (CMS CLAUSE 09, MAY 2007)

If applicable, Contractor personnel performing services for CMS under this contract, task order or delivery order shall be required to undergo a background investigation. CMS will initiate and pay for any required background investigation(s). After contract award, the CMS Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) and the Security and Emergency Management Group (SEMG), with the assistance of the Contractor, shall perform a position-sensitivity analysis based on the duties contractor personnel shall perform on the contract, task order or delivery order. The results of the position-sensitivity analysis will determine first, whether the provisions of this clause are applicable to the contract and second, if applicable, determine each position's sensitivity level (i.e., high risk, moderate risk or low risk) and dictate the appropriate level of background investigation to be processed. Investigative packages may contain the following forms: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. SF-85, Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, 09/1995 SF-85P, Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions, 09/1995 OF-612, Optional Application for Federal Employment, 12/2002 OF-306, Declaration for Federal Employment, 01/2001 Credit Report Release Form FD-258, Fingerprint Card, 5/99, and CMS-730A, Request for Physical Access to CMS Facilities (NON-CMS ONLY), 11/2003.

The Contractor personnel shall be required to undergo a background investigation commensurate with one of these position-sensitivity levels: 1) High Risk (Level 6) Public Trust positions that would have a potential for exceptionally serious impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service. This would include computer security of a major automated information system (AIS). This includes positions in which the incumbent's actions or inaction could diminish public confidence in the integrity, efficiency, or effectiveness of assigned government activities, whether or not actual damage occurs, particularly if duties are especially critical to the agency or program mission with a broad scope of responsibility and authority.

31 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Major responsibilities that would require this level include: a. development and administration of CMS computer security programs, including direction and control of risk analysis and/or threat assessment; b. significant involvement in mission-critical systems; c. preparation or approval of data for input into a system which does not necessarily involve personal access to the system but with relatively high risk of causing grave damage or realizing significant personal gain; d. other responsibilities that involve relatively high risk of causing damage or realizing personal gain; e. policy implementation; f. higher level management duties/assignments or major program responsibility; or g. independent spokespersons or non-management position with authority for independent action. Approximate cost of each investigation: $2,900 2) Moderate Risk (Level 5) Level 5 Public Trust positions include those involving policymaking, major program responsibility, and law enforcement duties that are associated with a "Moderate Risk." Also included are those positions involving access to or control of unclassified sensitive, proprietary information, or financial records, and those with similar duties through which the incumbent can realize a significant personal gain or cause serious damage to the program or Department. Responsibilities that would require this level include: a. the direction, planning, design, operation, or maintenance of a computer system and whose work is technically reviewed by a higher authority at the High Risk level to ensure the integrity of the system; b. systems design, operation, testing, maintenance, and/or monitoring that are carried out under the technical review of a higher authority at the High Risk level; c. access to and/or processing of information requiring protection under the Privacy Act of 1974; d. assists in policy development and implementation; e. mid-level management duties/assignments; f. any position with responsibility for independent or semi-independent action; or g. delivery of service positions that demand public confidence or trust. Approximate cost of each investigation: $2,400 3) Low Risk (Level 1) Positions having the potential for limited interaction with the agency or program mission, so the potential for impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service is small. This includes computer security impact on AIS.

32 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Approximate cost of each investigation: $550 The Contractor shall submit the investigative package(s) to SEMG within three (3) days after being advised by the SEMG of the need to submit packages. Investigative packages shall be submitted to the following address: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Office of Operations Management Security and Emergency Management Group Mail Stop SL-13-15 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 The Contractor shall submit a copy of the transmittal letter to the Contracting Officer (CO). Contractor personnel shall submit a CMS-730A (Request for Badge) to the SEMG. The Contractor and the COR shall obtain all necessary signatures on the CMS-730A prior to any Contractor employee arriving for fingerprinting and badge processing. The Contractor must appoint a Security Investigation Liaison as a point of contact to resolve any issues of inaccurate or incomplete form(s). Where personal information is involved, SEMG may need to contact the contractor employee directly. The Security Investigation Liaison may be required to facilitate such contact. SEMG will fingerprint contractor personnel and send their completed investigative package to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OPM will conduct the background investigation. Badges will not be provided by SEMG until acceptable finger print results are received; until then the contractor employee will be considered an escorted visitor. The Contractor remains fully responsible for ensuring contract, task order or delivery order performance pending completion of background investigations of contractor personnel. SEMG shall provide written notification to the CO with a copy to the COR of all suitability decisions. The COR shall then notify the Contractor in writing of the approval of the Contractor's employee(s), at that time the Contractor's employee(s) will receive a permanent identification badge. Contractor personnel who the SEMG determines to be ineligible may be required to cease working on the contract immediately. The Contractor shall report immediately in writing to SEMG with copies to the CO and the COR, any adverse information regarding any of its employees that may impact their ability to perform under this contract, task order or delivery order. Reports should be based on reliable and substantiated information, not on rumor or innuendo. The report shall include the contractor employee's name and social security number, along with the adverse information being reported.

33 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Contractor personnel shall be provided an opportunity to explain or refute unfavorable information found in an investigation to SEMG before an adverse adjudication is made. Contractor personnel may request, in writing, a copy of their own investigative results by contacting: Office of Personnel Management Freedom of Information Federal Investigations Processing Center PO Box 618 Boyers, PA 16018-0618. At the Agency's discretion, if an investigated contractor employee leaves the employment of the contractor, or otherwise is no longer associated with the contract, task order, or delivery order within one (1) year from the date the background investigation was initiated by CMS, then the Contractor may be required to reimburse CMS for the full cost of the investigation. Depending upon the type of background investigation conducted, the cost could be approximately $550 to $2,900. The amount to be paid by the Contractor shall be due and payable when the CO submits a written letter notifying the Contractor as to the cost of the investigation. The Contractor shall pay the amount due within thirty (30) days of the date of the CO's letter by check made payable to the "United States Treasury." The Contractor shall provide a copy of the CO's letter as an attachment to the check and submit both to the Office of Financial Management at the following address: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services PO Box 7520 Baltimore, Maryland 21207 The Contractor must immediately provide written notification to SEMG (with copies to the CO and the COR) of all terminations or resignations of Contractor personnel working on this contract, task order or delivery order. The Contractor must also notify SEMG (with copies to the CO and the COR) when a Contractor's employee is no longer working on this contract, task order or delivery order. At the conclusion of the contract, task order or delivery order and at the time when a contractor employee is no longer working on the contract, task order or delivery order due to termination or resignation, all CMS-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys must be promptly returned to SEMG. Contractor personnel who do not return their government-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys within 48 hours of the last day of authorized access shall be permanently barred from the CMS complex and subject to fines and penalties authorized by applicable federal and State laws. Work Performed Outside the United States and its Territories: The contractor, and its subcontractors, shall not perform any activities under this contract at a
34 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
location outside of the United States, including the transmission of data or other information outside the United States, without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. The factors that the Contracting Officer will consider in making a decision to authorize the performance of work outside the United States include, but are not limited to the following: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. All contract terms regarding system security All contract terms regarding the confidentiality and privacy requirements for information and data protection All contract terms that are otherwise relevant, including the provisions of the statement of work Corporate compliance All laws and regulations applicable to the performance of work outside the United States The best interest of the United States

In requesting the Contracting Officer's authorization to perform work outside the United States, the contractor must demonstrate that the performance of the work outside the United States satisfies all of the above factors. If, in the Contracting Officer's judgment, the above factors are not fully satisfied, the performance of work outside the United States will not be authorized. Any approval to employ or outsource work outside of the United States must have the concurrence of the CMS SEMG Director or designee. H.8 CMS INFORMATION SECURITY (CMS CLAUSE 11, APRIL 2008)

This clause applies to all organizations which possess or use Federal information, or which operate, use or have access to Federal information systems (whether automated or manual), on behalf of CMS. The central tenet of the CMS Information Security (IS) Program is that all CMS information and information systems shall be protected from unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse, or theft--whether accidental or intentional. The security safeguards to provide this protection shall be risk-based and business-driven with implementation achieved through a multi-layered security structure. All information access shall be limited based on a least-privilege approach and a need-to-know basis, i.e., authorized user access is only to information necessary in the performance of required tasks. Most of CMS' information relates to the health care provided to the nation's Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and as such, has access restrictions as required under legislative and regulatory mandates. The CMS IS Program has a two-fold purpose: (1) To enable CMS' business processes to function in an environment with commensurate security protections, and (2) To meet the security requirements of federal laws, regulations, and directives.

35 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The principal legislation for the CMS IS Program is Public Law (P.L.) 107-347, Title III, Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), http://csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/FISMAfinal.pdf. FISMA places responsibility and accountability for IS at all levels within federal agencies as well as those entities acting on their behalf. FISMA directs Office of Management and Budget (OMB) through the Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), to establish the standards and guidelines for federal agencies in implementing FISMA and managing costeffective programs to protect their information and information systems. As a contractor acting on behalf of CMS, this legislation requires that the Contractor shall: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Establish senior management level responsibility for IS, Define key IS roles and responsibilities within their organization, Comply with a minimum set of controls established for protecting all Federal information, and Act in accordance with CMS reporting rules and procedures for IS.

Additionally, the following laws, regulations and directives and any revisions or replacements of same have IS implications and are applicable to all CMS contractors. ˇ P.L. 93-579, The Privacy Act of 1974, http://www.usdoj.gov/oip/privstat.htm , (as amended); ˇ P.L. 99-474, Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986, www.usdoj.gov/criminal/cybercrime/ccmanual/01ccma.pdf P.L. 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1978, as amended in 1995, U.S. Code 44 Chapter 35, www.archives.gov/federal-register/laws/paperworkreduction; ˇ P.L. 104-208, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act), http://www.cio.gov/Documents/it_management_reform_act_Feb_1996.html; ˇ P.L. 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Kennedy-Kassenbaum Act) http://aspe.hhs.gov/admnsimp/pl104191.htm; ˇ OMB Circular No. A-123, Management's Responsibility for Internal Control, December 21, 2004, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a123/a123_rev.html; ˇ OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 30, 2000, http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a130/a130trans4.html; ˇ NIST standards and guidance, http://csrc.nist.gov/; and, ˇ Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) regulations, policies, standards and guidance http://www.hhs.gov/policies/index.html These laws and regulations provide the structure for CMS to implement and manage a cost-effective IS program to protect its information and information systems. Therefore, the Contractor shall monitor and adhere to all IT policies, standards, procedures, directives, templates, and guidelines that govern the CMS IS Program, http://www.cms.hhs.gov/informationsecurity and the CMS System Lifecycle

36 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Framework, http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SystemLifecycleFramework. The Contractor shall comply with the CMS IS Program requirements by performing, but not limited to, the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Implement their own IS program that adheres to CMS IS policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines, as well as industry best practices; Participate and fully cooperate with CMS IS audits, reviews, evaluations, tests, and assessments of contractor systems, processes, and facilities; Provide upon request results from any other audits, reviews, evaluations, tests and/or assessments that involve CMS information or information systems; Report and process corrective actions for all findings, regardless of the source, in accordance with CMS procedures; Document its compliance with CMS security requirements and maintain such documentation in the systems security profile; Prepare and submit in accordance with CMS procedures, an incident report to CMS of any suspected or confirmed incidents that may impact CMS information or information systems; and Participate in CMS IT information conferences as directed by CMS.

If the contractor believes that an updated IS-related requirement posted to the CMS website may result in a significant cost impact, the contractor may submit a request for equitable cost adjustment before implementing change. H.9 HHSAR 352.242-70 KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 2006)

The key personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to work performance. At least 30 days prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs or contracts (or as soon as possible, if an individual must be replaced, for example, as a result of leaving the employ of the Contractor), the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and shall submit comprehensive justification for the diversion or replacement request (including proposed substitutions for key personnel) to permit evaluation by the Government of the impact on performance under this contract. The Contractor shall not divert or otherwise replace any key personnel without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Government may modify the contract to add or delete key personnel at the request of the contractor or Government. (End of clause) Each request shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitution, a complete resume and any other information required by CMS. All proposed substitutions must have qualifications equal to or greater than the person being replaced.

37 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The following individuals are considered key personnel under this contract: NAME TITLE Program Director Project Manager Regional Manager(s) EMAIL PHONE

H.10

ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST

a. General: The Contractor and the services provided to Medicare beneficiaries and other Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) constituents under this contract should be free of conflicts of interest. Except as consistent with FAR 9.504, the Contracting Officer shall not enter into a contract with an offeror or maintain a contract with a Contractor that the Contracting Officer determines has, or has the potential for, an unresolved conflict of interest. Important Note: Please see Section H.10.c.2.(e) for information pertaining to specific contracting exclusions due to Organizational Conflict of Interest. Please also see Section L.17(c) for information pertaining to potential exclusion from the Eligibility Support competition due to Unequal Access to Information Organizational Conflict of Interest. b. Disclosure: In accordance with section d.1.f, d.2.a below, offerors are required to submit an executed Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate with their proposal. Contractors must disclose all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest to the Contracting Officer during the term of the contract in accordance with paragraph H.10.c. below. The Contractor shall have programs in place to identify, evaluate and mitigate all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest that preclude, or would appear to preclude, the Contractor from rendering impartial assistance or advice on work performed for this contract, or the Contractor's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or the Contractor has or obtains an unfair competitive advantage. The Contractor's Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate, that includes the Contractor's plan to mitigate all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest identified during the term of the contract and certification that all work to be performed under this contract is free of unresolved conflicts of interest will be incorporated into the contract after award. (See Attachment J-5) c. Conflict of interest identification: 1. Guidance: While FAR standards are applicable, used in this subpart, the following guidance is provided: (a) Financial relationship includes --

38 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(1) A direct or indirect ownership or investment interest (including an option or nonvested interest) in any entity that exists through equity, debt, or other means and includes any indirect ownership or investment interest no matter how many levels removed from a direct interest; or A compensation arrangement with an entity.

(2)

(b) Conflict of interest-- Conflict of interest means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage. For purposes of the Eligibility Support contract, the activities and relationships described include those of the offeror or Contractor itself and other business related to it and those of officers, directors (including medical directors), managers, and subcontractors. (c) Affiliate ­ Affiliate means associated business concerns or individuals if, either directly or indirectly-- (1) One controls or can control the other; or, (2) A third party controls or can control both. For purposes of this contract, affiliate control or influence includes, but is not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members; shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees; or, a business concern organized just prior to or immediately following, the release of a solicitation or request for information, which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the offeror or contractor.

Any business concern may be found to be an affiliate, whether or not it is organized for profit or located in the United States or its outlying areas. Control

39 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
may be affirmative or negative and it is immaterial whether it is exercised so long as the power to control exists. 2. Identification of conflict: (a) The Contracting Officer determines that an offeror or Contractor has a conflict of interest, or the potential for the conflict exists, if(1) The offeror or Contractor is an entity described in paragraph H.10.c.2.c of this section; or (2) The offeror or Contractor has a present, or establishes a future, direct or indirect financial relationship with an entity described in paragraph H.10.c.2.c of this section. (b) A financial relationship may exist either-- (1) Through an offeror's or Contractor's parent company, subsidiaries, affiliates, subcontractors, or current clients; or (2) From the activities and relationships of the officers, directors (including medical directors), or managers of the offeror or Contractor and may be either direct or indirect. An officer, director, or manager has an indirect financial relationship if an ownership or investment interest is held in the name of another but provides benefits to the officer, director, or manager. Examples of indirect financial relationships are, but are not limited to, holdings in the name of a spouse or dependent child of the officer, director, or manager and holdings of other relatives who reside with the officer, director, or manager. (c) For the purpose of identifying entities with conflicts of interest above, the entity is one that is engaged in or is affiliated, as that term is defined in H.10.c.1 above, with the ­ (1) Operation or sale of managed care plans, drug insurance plans, Medicare supplemental insurance plans or policies, durable medical equipment products or services, dialysis services, or any other related provider and health plan issuer's products or services; (2) Sale of commercial products or services targeted at populations covered by Medicare and other CMS programs e.g., retirement time-share vacations, etc.; and, (3) Independent review or assessment, for the government, of the performance or effectiveness of the operations under the Eligibility Support contract.

40 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(d) The Contracting Officer may determine that an offeror or Contractor has a conflict of interest, or the potential for a conflict exists, based on the following or on other factors: (1) Apparent conflicts of interest. An apparent conflict of interest exists if a person believes that the offeror or Contractor would have a conflict of interest in performing the requirements of a contract under this subpart. No inappropriate action by the offeror or Contractor is necessary for an apparent conflict of interest to exist. (2) Other contracts and grants. (e) Contracting Exclusions/Restrictions: (1) The services performed by the Contractor include the intake, routing, review, and troubleshooting of applications that will become the basis for Exchange appeals. Exchange appeals will be conducted under a separate CMS contract entitled "Eligibility Appeals." An exclusion for contracting is necessary to ensure an independent and objective review of eligibility determinations and to ensure that the Contractor will take the necessary steps to prevent disclosure of information under this contract. In accordance with FAR 9.5, the Contractor (and any subcontractors or consultants partnering with the Contractor) for this Eligibility Support contract will be excluded from serving as either the prime contractor or a subcontractor on the Eligibility Appeals contract and/or any other contract or task order that involves appeals under the federally-facilitated Exchange until the end of this contract. (2) The services solicited in this request for proposal support the FFE and SBEs for the Eligibility Support tasks under the Affordable Care Act. The tasks in the associated Statement of Work include the intake, routing, review, and troubleshooting of applications submitted for enrollment into a QHP and for insurance affordability programs including, but not limited to, Advance Payment of Premium Tax Credits, Cost-Sharing Reductions, Medicaid, CHIP, and the Basic Health Program (where applicable), beginning on October 1, 2013. Contractors that are working on or have worked on contracts awarded by CMS to build systems that collect and process Eligibility verifications and Enrollment transactions and/or build systems that integrate with the FFE to facilitate Eligibility verifications and Enrollment transactions have been given access to all or nearly all of CMS' Eligibility and Enrollment information. That knowledge provides those contractors with unequal access to information that affords them an unfair competitive advantage. In accordance with FAR 9.5, any offeror that meets the above description is ineligible to receive consideration for award as a prime contractor, subcontractor, and consultant or in any other role. Note: After contract award and for the duration of this contract, the Contracting Officer reserves the right to consider approval of
41 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
any proposed subcontractor/consultant/vendor that has done work as described above, and would otherwise be excluded under this subsection. 3. Offeror's or Contractor's responsibility with regard to subcontractors. An offeror or Contractor is responsible for identifying whether a conflict of interest exists in any of its proposed or actual subcontractors at any tier and is responsible for ensuring that the subcontractors have mitigated any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest. This information shall be submitted with the proposal the same as the offeror's conflict information. The Contracting Officer shall be notified of such identifications in accordance with H.10.b. The Contractor shall maintain documentation necessary to support its conclusion that its subcontractors have mitigated any conflict or potential conflict. A Contractor may require its subcontractors to follow the procedures for identifying, evaluating and disclosing conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest as contained herein. 4. Post-award conflicts of interest. (a) In addition to the conflicts identified in this section regardless of when such conflict may arise, the Contracting Officer considers that a conflict of interest has occurred if during the term of the contract-- (1) The Contractor receives any fee, compensation, gift, payment of expenses, or any other thing of value from any entity that is reviewed or contacted during the normal course of performing activities under the Eligibility Support contract; or (2) The Contracting Officer determines that the Contractor's activities are creating a conflict of interest. (b) In the event the Contracting Officer determines that a conflict of interest exists during the term of the contract, the Contracting Officer may take action including, but not limited to: (1) Not renewing the contract for an additional term; (2) Modifying the contract; or (3) Terminating the contract. d. Conflict of interest evaluation: 1. Disclosure. Offerors that wish to be eligible for the award of the Eligibility Support contract under this subpart and the Eligibility Support contractor, must submit, at times specified in paragraph H.10.d.2. of this section, an Organizational Conflicts of Interest Certificate. The Certificate must contain the information specified in paragraphs H.10.d.1 (a) through (h) of this section as follows:
42 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(a) A description of all business or contractual relationships or activities that the Contractor's compliance officer has determined could be viewed as a conflict of interest. (b) A description of the methods the offeror or Contractor will apply to mitigate any situations listed in the Certificate that could be identified as a conflict of interest. (c) A description of the offeror's or Contractor's program to monitor its compliance and the compliance of its proposed and actual subcontractors with the conflict of interest requirements as identified in the relevant solicitation. (d) A description of the offeror's or Contractor's plans to contract with an independent auditor to conduct an annual conflict of interest audit. (e) A description of all healthcare related contracts both government (local, state or federal) and nongovernment to include contracts with CMS and other government health care agencies held by the Contractor, its parent company, subsidiaries or other affiliated entities. (f) An affirmation, using language provided below, signed and dated by an official authorized to bind the Contractor: I, (Name and Title), certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief: 1) I am an official authorized to bind the entity; 2) the information contained in the Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate is true and accurate as of (Date); and 3) I understand that the Contracting Officer may consider any deception or omission in this Certificate to be grounds for non-consideration for contract award, modification or nonrenewal or termination of the current contract, and/or other contract or legal action. An offeror shall submit an affirmation certifying the information to be true and accurate as of the date the proposal is submitted. Upon award, the Contractor shall submit an updated affirmation, if necessary, certifying the information to be accurate as of the date of contract award. (g) Corporate and organizational structure. (h) Financial interests in other entities, including the following: (1) Percentage of ownership in any other entity. (2) Income generated from other sources. (3) A list of current or known future contracts or arrangements, regardless of size, with any-(i) Insurance organization or subcontractor of an insurance organization; or (ii) Providers or suppliers furnishing health services for which payment may be made under Medicare and other CMS programs. (4) In the case of contracts or arrangements identified in accordance with paragraph H.10.3.d.1(h)(3) of this section, the dollar amount of the contracts
43 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
or arrangements, the type of work performed, and the period of performance. (i) The following information for all of the offeror's or Contractor's officers, directors (including medical directors), and managers who would be, or are involved with, the performance of this Eligibility Support contract: (1) The information required under paragraphs H.10.d.1 (a), H.10.d.1(h)(3) and (4) of this section. (2) The information specified in paragraphs H.10.d.1 (h)(1) and (2) of this section. 2. When disclosure is made. The Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate is submitted-- (a) With the offeror's proposal; (b) When the Contracting Officer requests a revision in the Certificate; (c) Within 45 days of any change in the information submitted in accordance with paragraph H.10.d.1 of this section. (d) As part of the annual conflict of interest certification by an independent auditor. The first annual certification shall be submitted on the anniversary date that the contract became fully operational and annually thereafter. 3. Evaluation. The Contracting Officer evaluates conflicts of interest and potential conflicts, using the information provided in the Conflicts of Interest Certificate, and information from other sources. For each conflict identified, the Contracting Officer will evaluate the plan proposed to mitigate the conflict to determine if the mitigation plan will allow the Contractor to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government; or the Contractor's objectivity in performing the contract work is not or will not be otherwise impaired; or the Contractor will not or has not obtained an unfair competitive advantage. e. Conflict of Interest Resolution: Resolution of a conflict of interest is a determination that: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) The conflict has been mitigated; The conflict precludes award of a contract to the offeror; The conflict requires that the Contracting Officer modify an existing contract; The conflict requires that the Contracting Officer terminate an existing contract; or It is in the best interest of the Government to contract with the offeror or Contractor even though the conflict exists.

44 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
H.11 CONDITIONS FOR PERFORMANCE

In addition to the performance requirements of this contract as set forth under Section C, DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT, the Contractor may be required to comply with the requirements of any revisions in legislation or regulations which may be enacted or implemented during the period of performance of this contract, and are directly applicable to the performance requirements of this contract. H.12 WAGE DETERMINATIONS

In the performance of this contract, the contractor shall comply with the requirements of U.S. Department of Labor Wage Determination Number(s): To Be Determined (See Attachment J-2) (See also Section I, FAR 52.222-49 (Service Contract Act- Place of Performance Unknown)).

45 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES
I.1 FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: https://www.acquisition.gov NUMBER 52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-8 52.203-10 52.203-12 52.203-13 52.203-14 52.204-2 52.204-4 52.204-7 52.204-9 52.204-10 52.209-6 52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-11 52.215-13 52.215-15 52.215-18 TITLE Definitions Gratuities Covenant Against Contingent Fees Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government Anti-Kickback Procedures Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Display of Hotline Poster (http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/reportfraud/index.asp) Security Requirements Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper Central Contractor Registration Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment Audit and Records--Negotiation Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data Modifications Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions DATE JAN 2012 APR 1984 APR 1984 SEP 2006 OCT 2010 JAN 1997 JAN 1997 OCT 2010 APR 2010 DEC 2007 AUG 1996 MAY 2011 AUG 2012 JAN 2011 FEB 2012 DEC 2010 OCT 2010 OCT 1997 AUG 2011 OCT 2010 OCT 2010 JUL 2005

46 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
52.215-19 52.215-21 52.215-23 52.216-7 52.216-8 52.217-8 52.219-8 52.219-9 52.219-16 52.219-28 52.222-1 52.222-3 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-35 52.222-36 52.222-37 52.222-41 52.222-50 52.222-54 52.223-6 52.223-15 52.223-18 52.224-1 52.224-2 52.225-13 52.227-14 52.227-17 52.230-2 52.230-6 52.232-9 52.232-17 52.232-18 52.232-20 52.232-22 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33 Notification of Ownership Changes Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications Limitations on Pass-Through Charges Allowable Cost and Payment Fixed Fee Option to Extend Services Utilization of Small Business Concerns Small Business Subcontracting Plan (OCT 2001) - Alternate II Liquidated Damages - Subcontracting Plan Post-Award Small Business Program Representation Notice to the Government of Labor Disputes Convict Labor Prohibition of Segregated Facilities Equal Opportunity Equal Opportunity for Veterans Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans Service Contract Act of 1965 Combating Trafficking in Persons Employment Eligibility Verification Drug-Free Workplace Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving Privacy Act Notification Privacy Act Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases Rights in Data--General Rights in Data--Special Works Cost Accounting Standards Administration of Cost Accounting Standards Limitation on Withholding of Payments Interest Availability of Funds Limitation of Costs Limitation of Funds Assignment of Claims Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) - Alternate 1 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration OCT 1997 OCT 2010 OCT 2009 JUN 2011 JUN 2011 NOV 1999 JAN 2011 JAN 2011 JAN 1999 APR 2009 FEB 1997 JUN 2003 FEB 1999 MAR 2007 SEPT 2010 OCT 2010 SEPT 2010 NOV 2007 FEB 2009 JAN 2009 MAY 2001 DEC 2007 AUG 2011 APR 1984 APR 1984 JUN 2008 DEC 2007 DEC 2007 OCT 2010 JUN 2010 APR 1984 OCT 2010 APR 1984 APR 1984 APR 1984 JAN 1986 FEB 2002 OCT 2003

47 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
52.233-1 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.237-3 52.239-1 52.242-1 52.242-3 52.242-4 52.242-13 52.243-2 52.243-7 52.244-2 52.244-5 52.244-6 52.245-1 52.245-9 52.246-25 52.248-1 52.249-6 52.249-14 52.251-1 52.253-1 I.2 Disputes (JUL 2002) - Alternate I Protest After Award (AUG 1996) ­ Alternate 1 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim Continuity of Service Privacy or Security Safeguards Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs Penalties for Unallowable Costs Certification of Final Indirect Costs Bankruptcy Changes- Cost Reimbursement (AUG 1987) ­ Alternate 1 Notification of Changes Subcontracts (OCT 2010) ­ Alternate 1 Competition in Subcontracting Subcontracts for Commercial Items Government Property Use and Charges Limitation Of Liability ­ Services Value Engineering Termination (Cost Reimbursement) Excusable Delays Government Supply Sources Computer Generated Forms DEC 1991 JUN 1985 OCT 2004 JAN 1991 AUG 1996 APR 1984 MAY 2001 JAN 1997 JUL 1995 APR 1984 APR 1984 JUN 2007 DEC 1996 DEC 2010 AUG 2010 AUG 2010 FEB 1997 OCT 2010 MAY 2004 APR 1984 APR 2012 JAN 1991

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION (HHSAR) TITLE Paperwork Reduction Act Anti-Lobbying Additional Cost Principles Mentor-Protégé Program Mentor-Protégé Program Reporting Requirements Contractor Cooperation in EEO Investigations Privacy Act Publications and Publicity Insurance ­ Liability to Third Persons (in lieu of FAR 52.228-7, Insurance ­ Liability to Third Persons, This is an Authorized FAR Deviation) Litigation and Claims Withholding of Contract Payments Final Decisions on Audit Findings DATE JAN 2006 MAR 2012 JAN 2006 JAN 2010 JAN 2010 JAN 2010 JAN 2006 JAN 2006 DEC 1991 JAN 2006 JAN 2006 JAN 1984

NUMBER 352.201-70 352.203-70 352.216-70 352.219-70 352.219-71 352.222-70 352.224-70 352.227-70 352.228-7 352.333-71 352.242-73 352.242-74

48 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
I.3 HHSAR 352.202-1 DEFINITIONS (JAN 2006)

This is an authorized FAR deviation (a) In accordance with FAR 52.202­1(a)(1), substitute the following as paragraph (a): ``(a) The term ``Secretary'' or ``Head of the Agency'' (also called ``Agency Head'') means the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or any Assistant Secretary, Administrator or Commissioner of the Department of Health and Human Services; and the term ``his/her duly authorized representative'' means any person, persons, or board authorized to act for the Secretary.'' (b) In accordance with FAR 52.202­1(a)(1), add the following paragraph (h): ``(h) The term ``Contracting Officer's Technical Representative" or "Contracting Officer's Representative" means the person who monitors the technical aspects of contract performance. The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative is not authorized to issue any instructions or directions which cause any increase or decrease in the Statement of Work/Performance Work Statement/Specifications which would result in the increase or decrease in the price of this contract, or changes in the delivery schedule or period of performance of this contract. If applicable, the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative is not authorized to receive or act upon any notification or revised cost estimate provided by the Contractor in accordance with the Limitation of Cost or Limitation of Funds clauses of this contract.''
I.4

FAR 52.209-9 UPDATES OF PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (FEB 2012)

(a) The Contractor shall update the information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) on a semi-annual basis, throughout the life of the contract, by posting the required information in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov. (b) As required by section 3010 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 (Pub. L. 111-212), all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. FAPIIS consists of two segments-- (1) The non-public segment, into which Government officials and the Contractor post information, which can only be viewed by-- (i) Government personnel and authorized users performing business on behalf of the Government; or (ii) The Contractor, when viewing data on itself; and (2) The publicly-available segment, to which all data in the non-public segment of FAPIIS is automatically transferred after a waiting period of 14 calendar days, except for--

49 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(i) Past performance reviews required by subpart 42.15; (ii) Information that was entered prior to April 15, 2011; or (ii) Information that is withdrawn during the 14-calendar-day waiting period by the Government official who posted it in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. (c) The Contractor will receive notification when the Government posts new information to the Contractor's record. (1) If the Contractor asserts in writing within 7 calendar days, to the Government official who posted the information, that some of the information posted to the non-public segment of FAPIIS is covered by a disclosure exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, the Government official who posted the information must within 7 calendar days remove the posting from FAPIIS and resolve the issue in accordance with agency Freedom of Information procedures, prior to reposting the releasable information. The contractor must cite 52.209-9 and request removal within 7 calendar days of the posting to FAPIIS. (2) The Contractor will also have an opportunity to post comments regarding information that has been posted by the Government. The comments will be retained as long as the associated information is retained, i.e., for a total period of 6 years. Contractor comments will remain a part of the record unless the Contractor revises them. (3) As required by section 3010 of Pub. L. 111-212, all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. (d) Public requests for system information posted prior to April 15, 2011, will be handled under Freedom of Information Act procedures, including, where appropriate, procedures promulgated under E.O. 12600 I.5 FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within the current period of performance; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years.

50 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
I.6 FAR 52.219-4 NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION PREFERENCE FOR HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011)

(a) Definitions. See 13 CFR 125.6(e) for definitions of terms used in paragraph (d). (b) Evaluation preference. (1) Offers will be evaluated by adding a factor of 10 percent to the price of all offers, except-- (i) Offers from HUBZone small business concerns that have not waived the evaluation preference; and (ii) Otherwise successful offers from small business concerns. (2) The factor of 10 percent shall be applied on a line item basis or to any group of items on which award may be made. Other evaluation factors described in the solicitation shall be applied before application of the factor. (3) A concern that is both a HUBZone small business concern and a small disadvantaged business concern will receive the benefit of both the HUBZone small business price evaluation preference and the small disadvantaged business price evaluation adjustment (see FAR clause 52.219-23). Each applicable price evaluation preference or adjustment shall be calculated independently against an offeror's base offer. These individual preference amounts shall be added together to arrive at the total evaluated price for that offer. (4) When the two highest rated offerors are a HUBZone small business concern and a large business, and the evaluated offer of the HUBZone small business concern is equal to the evaluated offer of the large business after considering the price evaluation preference, award will be made to the HUBZone small business concern. (c) Waiver of evaluation preference. A HUBZone small business concern may elect to waive the evaluation preference, in which case the factor will be added to its offer for evaluation purposes. The agreements in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause do not apply if the offeror has waived the evaluation preference. ___ Offeror elects to waive the evaluation preference. (d) Agreement. A HUBZone small business concern agrees that in the performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for-- (1) Services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern or employees of other HUBZone small business concerns;
51 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern or other HUBZone small business concerns; (3) General construction. (i) At least 15 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns; or (4) Construction by special trade contractors. (i) At least 25 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns. (e) A HUBZone joint venture agrees that the aggregate of the HUBZone small business concerns to the joint venture, not each concern separately, will perform the applicable percentage of work requirements. (f)(1) When the total value of the contract exceeds $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer agrees to furnish in performing this contract only end items manufactured or produced by HUBZone small business concern manufacturers. (2) When the total value of the contract is equal to or less than $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer may provide end items manufactured by other than a HUBZone small business concern manufacturer provided the end items are produced or manufactured in the United States. (3) Paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section do not apply in connection with construction or service contracts.

52 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(g) Notice. The HUBZone small business offeror acknowledges that a prospective HUBZone awardee must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract. The HUBZone offeror shall provide the Contracting Officer a copy of the notice required by 13 CFR 126.501 if material changes occur before contract award that could affect its HUBZone eligibility. If the apparently successful HUBZone offeror is not a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful HUBZone small business concern or other offeror. I.7 FAR 52.222-2 PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS (JUL 1990)

(a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium does not exceed [TBD] or the overtime premium is paid for work (1) Necessary to cope with emergencies such as those resulting from accidents, natural disasters, breakdowns of production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature; (2) By indirect-labor employees such as those performing duties in connection with administration, protection, transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation of utilities, or accounting; (3) To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances, and operations in flight or afloat that are continuous in nature and cannot reasonably be interrupted or completed otherwise; or (4) That will result in lower overall costs to the Government. (b) Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall (1) Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with present workload, staffing, and other data of the affected unit sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the necessity for the overtime; (2) Demonstrate the effect that denial of the request will have on the contract delivery or performance schedule; (3) Identify the extent to which approval of overtime would affect the performance or payments in connection with other Government contracts, together with identification of each affected contract; and (4) Provide reasons why the required work cannot be performed by using multi-shift operations or by employing additional personnel.
53 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
[ ] Insert either "zero" or the dollar amount agreed to during negotiations. The inserted figure does not apply to the exceptions in subparagraph (a)(1) through (a)(4) of the clause. I.8 FAR 52.222-42 STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)

In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332. This Statement is for Information Only: It is not a Wage Determination Employee Class [TBD] I.9 Monetary Wage - Fringe Benefits [TBD] [TBD]

FAR 52.222-49 SERVICE CONTRACT ACT - PLACE OF PERFORMANCE UNKNOWN (MAY 1989)

(a) This contract is subject to the Service Contract Act, and the place of performance was unknown when the solicitation was issued. In addition to places or areas identified in wage determinations, if any, attached to the solicitation, wage determinations have also been requested for the following: [TBD]. The Contracting Officer will request wage determinations for additional places or areas of performance if asked to do so in writing by [15 calendar days after release of solicitation]. Alternatively, the Contractor may choose to obtain the applicable wage determination(s) using Wage Determinations Online.gov, available at http://www.wdol.gov/. (b) Offerors who intend to perform in a place or area of performance for which a wage determination has not been attached or requested may nevertheless submit bids or proposals. However, a wage determination shall be requested and incorporated in the resultant contract retroactive to the date of contract award, and there shall be no adjustment in the contract price. I.10 HHSAR 352.231-70 SALARY RATE LIMITATION (AUG 2012)

(a) Pursuant to the current and applicable prior HHS appropriations acts, the Contractor shall not use contract funds to pay the direct salary of an individual at a rate in excess of the Federal Executive Schedule Level in effect on the date the funding was obligated (the effective date of the contract action). Funding obligated on or after December 23, 2011 cannot be used to pay the direct salary of an individual at a rate in excess of Federal Executive Schedule Level II.
54 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(b) For purposes of the salary rate limitation, the terms "direct salary," "salary," and "institutional base salary," have the same meaning and are collectively referred to as "direct salary," in this clause. An individual's direct salary is the annual compensation that the Contractor pays for an individual's direct effort (costs) under the contract. Direct salary excludes any income that an individual may be permitted to earn outside of duties to the Contractor. Direct salary also excludes fringe benefits, overhead, and general and administrative expenses (also referred to as indirect costs or facilities and administrative [F&A] costs). Note: The salary rate limitation does not restrict the salary that an organization may pay an individual working under an HHS contract or order; it merely limits the portion of that salary that may be paid with contract funds. (c) The salary rate limitation also applies to individuals under subcontracts. If this is a multipleyear contract or order, it may be subject to unilateral modification by the Contracting Officer to ensure that an individual is not paid at a rate that exceeds the salary rate limitation provision established in the HHS appropriations act in effect when the expense is incurred regardless of the rate initially used to establish contract or order funding. (d) See the salaries and wages pay tables on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management Web site for Federal Executive Schedule salary levels that apply to the current and prior periods. I.11 HHSAR 352.237-73 NON-DISCRIMINATION IN SERVICE DELIVERY (MAR 2012)

It is the policy of the Department of Health and Human Services that no person otherwise eligible will be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or subjected to discrimination in the administration of HHS programs and services based on non-merit factors such as race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, or disability (physical or mental). By acceptance of this contract, the Contractor agrees to comply with this policy in supporting the program and in performing the services called for under this contract. The Contractor shall include this clause in all sub-contracts awarded under this contract for supporting or performing the specified program and services. Accordingly, the Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees, and any sub-contractor staff, is made aware of, understands, and complies with this policy. I.12 HHSAR 352.239-70 STANDARD FOR SECURITY CONFIGURATIONS (JAN 2010)

(a) The Contractor shall configure its computers that contain HHS data with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) (see http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm) and ensure that its computers have and maintain the latest operating system patch level and anti-virus software level.

55 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Note: FDCC is applicable to all computing systems using Windows XPTM and Windows VistaTM, including desktops and laptops - regardless of function - but not including servers. (b) The Contractor shall apply approved security configurations to information technology (IT) that is used to process information on behalf of HHS. The following security configuration requirements apply: 1. Contractor computers containing HHS data shall be configured with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) (http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm), (iii) and shall have and maintain the latest operating system patch level and anti-virus software level. 2. The Contractor shall apply approved security configurations to information technology that is used to process information on behalf of the Department, its Operating Divisions (OPDIVs) and Staff Divisions (STAFFDIVs). (c) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications operated on behalf of HHS are fully functional and operate correctly on systems configured in accordance with the above configuration requirements. The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)-validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to ensure its products operate correctly with FDCC configurations and do not alter FDCC settings - see http://nvd.nist.gov/validation.cfm. The Contractor shall test applicable product versions with all relevant and current updates and patches installed. The Contractor shall ensure currently supported versions of information technology products meet the latest FDCC major version and subsequent major versions. (d) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications designed for end users run in the standard user context without requiring elevated administrative privileges. (e) The Contractor shall ensure hardware and software installation, operation, maintenance, update, and patching will not alter the configuration settings or requirements specified above. (f) The Contractor shall (1) include Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 201compliant (see http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips201-1/FIPS-201-1-chng1.pdf), Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) card readers with the purchase of servers, desktops, and laptops; and (2) comply with FAR Subpart 4.13, Personal Identity Verification. (g) The Contractor shall ensure that its subcontractors (at all tiers) which perform work under this contract comply with the requirements contained in this clause.

56 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
J-1 J-2 J-3 J-4 J-5 J-6 J-7 J-8 J-9 J-10 J-11 Statement of Work Wage Determinations (To Be Determined) Subcontract Plan - Sample Subcontract Plan can be found at http://www.hhs.gov/about/smallbusiness/subcontractplan.html Invoice Instructions (Cost Reimbursement) Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate (To Be Determined) Compliance Program Attestation Proposal Intent Response Form Eligibility Support Pricing Template Eligibility Support Level of Effort Assumptions Past Performance Questionnaire and Cover Letter Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF LLL) can be found at https://www.acquisition.gov (See FAR 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions) Organizational Conflict of Interest Template

J-12

57 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS
K.1 REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATION TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFEROR: [THE REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS MUST BE EXECUTED BY AN INDIVIDUAL AUTHORIZED TO BIND THE OFFEROR]

The offeror makes the following Representations and Certifications as part of its proposal (check or complete all appropriate boxes or blanks on the following pages). _____________________________ (Name of Offeror) _____________________________ (Signature of Authorized Individual) ________________________ (RFP No) ________________________ (Date)

________________________________________________________________ (Typed Name of Authorized Individual) Note: The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C 1001. K.2 FAR 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (MAY 2012)

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611 Administrative Management and General Management Consulting (2) The small business size standard is $14 million. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding
58 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. (iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

59 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- Representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, or 2012. (vi) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (vii) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (ix) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. (x) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (xi) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.22226, Equal Opportunity.

60 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(xiii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiv) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA­designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (xv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA­designated items. (xvi) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvii) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternates I, II, and III.) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $77,494, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (D) If the acquisition value is $77,494 or more but is less than $100,000, the provision with its Alternate III applies. (xviii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xix) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-- Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations.

61 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(xx) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran--Representation and Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xxi) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-- (A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. (2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (i) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status __ (A) Basic __ (B) Alternate I __ (ii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products __ (iii) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification __ (iv) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services­Certification __ (v) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Products (Alternate I only). __ (vi) 52.227-6, Royalty Information __ (A) Basic

62 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
__(B) Alternate I __ (vii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR CLAUSE # ____________ TITLE _________ DATE CHANGE _______

_____

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. K.3 52.230-1 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (MAY 2012)

Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract. If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the

63 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively. I. Disclosure Statement - Cost Accounting Practices and Certification (a) Any contract in excess of $700,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror's proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. (c) Check the appropriate box below: [ ] (1) Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement. The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and (ii) One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. (Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.) Date of Disclosure Statement: [ ] Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: [ ]

64 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement. [ ] (2) Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement. The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: Date of Disclosure Statement: [ ] Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: [ ] The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. [ ] (3) Certificate of Monetary Exemption. The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. [ ] (4) Certificate of Interim Exemption. The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under subparagraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. Caution: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAScovered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded.

65 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
II. Cost Accounting Standards - Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. [ ] The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAScovered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. Caution: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more. III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts. [ ] yes [ ] no K.4 FAR 52.230-7 PROPOSAL DISCLOSURE--COST ACCOUNTING PRACTICE CHANGES (APR 2005)

The offeror shall check "yes" below if the contract award will result in a required or unilateral change in cost accounting practice, including unilateral changes requested to be desirable changes. ___ Yes ___ No If the offeror checked "Yes" above, the offeror shall ­

66 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(1) Prepare the price proposal in response to the solicitation using the changed practice for the period of performance for which the practice will be used; and (2) Submit a description of the changed cost accounting practice to the Contracting Officer and the Cognizant Federal Agency Official as pricing support for the proposal. K.5 SECTION 508 - REPRESENTATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS

(a) Submission of the representation referenced in paragraph (b) and (c) is a prerequisite imposed by 36 CFR 1194 for making or entering into this contract. (b) The offeror represents that the products and services offered in response to this solicitation comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless stated otherwise within their proposal/offer. (c) The offeror further represents that all EIT products and services represented that are less than fully compliant are offered pursuant to extensive market research, which ensures that they are the most current compliant products and services available to satisfy this solicitation's requirements. K.6 FAR 52. 209-7 INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (FEB 2012)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).

67 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
"Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7).

68 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
K.7 REPRESENTATIONS (FINANCIAL)

1. Contractor: Address:* Telephone No Individual(s) to contract regarding this proposal: Dun & Bradstreet, Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) No.: *If financial records are maintained at some other location, show the address of the place where the records are kept. 1. Cognizant Government Audit Agency: Address: Auditor: Telephone No.: 3. Sales: a. Work Distribution for the Last Completed Fiscal Accounting Period Government cost reimbursement type prime contracts and subcontracts: $_______________ Government fixed price prime contracts and and subcontracts: $_______________ Commercial Sales: $_______________ Total Sales: $_______________ b. Total Sales for First and Second Fiscal Years Immediately Proceeding Last Completed Fiscal Year Total sales for first preceding fiscal year:

69 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Total sales for second preceding fiscal year: 4. Is company a separate entity or division? If a division or subsidiary corporation, name parent company: 5. Date company organized: 6. Manpower: Total employees: Direct: Indirect: Standard Work Week (Hours): 7. Commercial Products: 8. Attach a current organizational chart of the company. 9. Description of contractor's system of estimating and accumulating costs under Government contracts. (Check appropriate blocks). Estimated/ Standard Cost Actual Cost

Estimating System Job Order Process Accumulating System Job Order Process

Has your cost estimating system been approved by any Government agency? Yes_____No_____ If yes, give name and location of agency:

70 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
10. What is your fiscal year period? (Give month-to-month dates) What were the indirect cost rates for your last completed fiscal year? Fiscal Year: Fringe Benefits Overhead G&A Other Indirect Cost Rates Basis of Allocation

11. Have the proposed indirect cost rate(s) been evaluated and accepted by any Government agency? If yes, give name and location of the Government Agency: Date of last preaward audit review by a Government agency: 12. Cost estimating is performed by: ( ) accounting department ( ) contract department ( ) other (describe) 13. Has system of control of Government property been approved by a Government agency? If yes, give name and location of agency: *If the answer is no, data supporting the proposed rates must accompany the cost or price proposal. A breakdown of the items comprising overhead and G & A must be furnished. 14. Purchasing Procedures: Are purchasing procedures written? Yes____No____ Has your purchasing system been approved by a Government agency? Yes_____No_____

71 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
If yes, give name and location of agency: 15. Does your firm have an established written incentive compensation or bonus plan? Yes_____No_____

72 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS
L.1 FAR 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address: www.acquisition.gov
FAR Reference Title Date

52.215-16 52.215-22 52.219-24 52.222-24 52.222­46 52.237-10

Facilities Capital Cost of Money Limitations on Pass-Through Charges ­ Identification of Subcontract Effort Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program Targets Pre-award On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees Identification of Uncompensated Overtime

JUN 2003 OCT 2009 OCT 2000 FEB 1999 FEB 1993 OCT 1997

L.2

FAR 52.215-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION (JAN 2004) (Note: As prescribed in the Department of Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulations (HHSAR), paragraph (e) of the FAR version of this clause is replaced by the HHSAR paragraph (e)).

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Discussions" are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting Officer's discretion, result in the offeror being allowed to revise its proposal. "In writing," "writing," or "written" means any worded or numbered expression that can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes electronically transmitted and stored information. "Proposal modification" is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation's closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award.

73 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
"Proposal revision" is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer as the result of negotiations. "Time," if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next working day. (b) Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s). (c) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (1) Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in the solicitation, proposals and modifications to proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the offeror. Offerors using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost wrapper with the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision. (2) The first page of the proposal must show-- (i) The solicitation number; (ii) The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the offeror (and electronic address if available); (iii) A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation and agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item; (iv) Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate on the offeror's behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and (v) Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent's authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office. (3) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.

74 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(i) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modifications or revisions, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due. (ii)(A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-- (1) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals; or (2) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (3) It is the only proposal received. (B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (iii) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (iv) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the

75 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (v) Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award. (4) (5) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items. Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation, and in U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is included in the solicitation. Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award. Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer. Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting Officer.

(6)

(7) (8)

(d) Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror). (e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data (HHSAR 352.215-1 Authorized FAR deviation). As prescribed in HHSAR 315.209, FAR 52.215-1 is modified as follows (1) The proposal submitted in response to this request may contain data (trade secrets; business data, e.g., commercial information, financial

76 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
information, and cost and pricing data; and technical data) which the offeror, including its prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the proposal. The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted; provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the following legend, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted in accordance with the conditions of the legend. The Government's determination to withhold or disclose a record will be based upon the particular circumstances involving the record in question and whether the record may be exempted from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. The legend reads: "Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information (FOI) officials of the Department of Health and Human Services, data contained in the portions of this proposal which have been specifically identified by page number, paragraph, etc. by the offeror as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for evaluation purposes. The offeror acknowledges that the Department may not be able to withhold a record (data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record requested pursuant to the Act and that the Department's FOI officials must make that determination. The offeror hereby agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure if the Department has determined that disclosure is required by the Act. If a contract is awarded to the offeror as a result of, or in connection with, the submission of this proposal, the Government shall have right to use or disclose the data to the extent provided in the contract. Proposals not resulting in a contract remain subject to the Act. The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose, including the release of the information pursuant to requests under the Act. The data subject to this restriction are contained in pages (insert page numbers, paragraph designations, etc. or other identification)."

77 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(2) In addition, the offeror should mark each page of data it wishes to restrict with the following statement: "Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restriction on the cover sheet of this proposal or quotation." (3) Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive legends or statements differing in substance from the above legend may not be considered for award. The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with a nonconforming legend. (End of HHSAR Deviation)

(f)

Contract award. (1) The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror(s) whose proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the solicitation. (2) The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government's interest. (3) The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received. (4) The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror's initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals (5) The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal.

78 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(6) The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the Government's best interest to do so. Exchanges with offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government. The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government. If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance or schedule risk.

(7) (8)

(9)

(10) A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time specified in the proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. (11) If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable[, in accordance with FAR 15.506]: (i) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (ii) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (iii) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (iv) A summary of the rationale for award. (v) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (vi) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

79 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
L.3 FAR 52.215-20 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010) - ALTERNATE IV (OCT 2010)

(a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required. (b) Provide information described below: (See Attachment J-8). Access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with 15.403-3 shall be provided. L.4 FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of a cost-plus-fixed-fee (CPFF) contract. L.5 FAR 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEPT 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ATTN: Mark Smolenski, Contracting Officer Mail Stop B3-30-03 7500 Security Blvd Baltimore, MD 21244 (410) 786-0175 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. L.6 SECTION 508, ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (EIT) COMPLIANCE (CMS CLAUSE 01, MAR 01, 2004)

Offerors are advised that any resultant contract awarded under a solicitation, or task orders awarded under IDIQ Task Order Contracts, may be subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220). Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures EIT, the EIT must allow federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities. Offerors are advised to review the Section 508 solicitation provisions at Section H,

80 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Section K, and Section L. L.7 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (CCR)

In accordance with FAR 52.204-7, the offeror shall acknowledge that they are registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance, and through final payment of any award resulting from this solicitation. FAILURE TO REGISTER IN CCR WILL PROHIBIT CMS FROM MAKING AN AWARD TO YOUR ORGANIZATION. The prospective awardee must enter all mandatory data fields, including the DUNS number or DUNS+4 number into the CCR database. (see FAR Provision: 52.204-6 Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number). The prospective awardee must also enter all Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) data in the CCR database. The prospective awardee is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database. At a minimum, the prospective awardee must review and update the CCR database on an annual basis. Note: The System for Award Management (SAM) consolidates the capabilities of CCR and other systems used in Federal procurement and award processes. Offerors must register in SAM in order to access CCR. Information on SAM registration and annual confirmation requirements is available at http://www.sam.gov and http://www.acquisition.gov/SAM_Guides/index.html. L.8 HHSAR 352.232-70 INCREMENTAL FUNDING (JUNE 2010)

The Government intends to negotiate and award a cost-reimbursement contract using incremental funding as described in the clauses at FAR 52.232­22, "Limitation of Funds," and 352.232-71, "Estimated Cost ­ Incrementally Funded Contract." The initial obligation of funds under the contract is expected to cover (To Be Determined). The Government intends to obligate additional funds up to and including the full estimated cost of the contract for the remaining years of performance by unilateral contract modification. However, the Government is not required to reimburse the Contractor for costs incurred in excess of the total amount obligated, nor is the Contractor required to perform beyond the level supported by the total amount obligated. L.9 SMALL BUSINESS AND SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

a) If the proposed contract exceeds a total estimated cost of $650,000 for the entire period of performance, the offeror shall submit a subcontracting plan in accordance with the terms of the clause entitled "Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business
81 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Subcontracting Plan" FAR Clause No. 52.219-9, incorporated herein by reference in the Solicitation. Attachment J-3 to this RFP provides a link to a sample plan. b) THIS PROVISION DOES NOT APPLY TO SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS. c) The term "subcontract" means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime Contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for the performance of the original contract or subcontract. d) CMS recommends the following goals for subcontracting opportunities: Of the total dollars subcontracted, 33% should go to small businesses. As a subset of that 33%, the following goals are recommended: GOAL 5% 5% 3% 3% 3% SMALL BUSINESS CATEGORY Small Disadvantaged Business Women Owned Small Business Hubzone Small Business Veteran Owned Small Business Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Bus.

e) The offeror understands that: (1) No contract will be awarded unless and until an acceptable plan is negotiated with the Contracting Officer. Such plan will be incorporated into the contract, as a material part thereof. (2) An acceptable plan must, in the determination of the Contracting Officer, provide the maximum practicable opportunity for small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged persons to participate in the performance of the contract. (3) If a subcontracting plan acceptable to the Contracting Officer is not negotiated within the time limits prescribed by the contracting activity and such failure arises out of causes within the control and with the fault or negligence of the offeror, the offeror shall be ineligible for an award. The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor in writing of the reasons for determining a subcontracting plan unacceptable early enough in the negotiation process to allow the Contractor to modify the plan within the time limits prescribed.

82 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(4) Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract. (5) It is the offeror's responsibility to develop a satisfactory subcontracting plan with respect to both small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and that each such aspect of the offeror's plan will be judged independent of the other. (6) The offeror will submit, as required by the Contracting Officer, subcontracting reports in accordance with the instructions thereon, and as further directed by the Contracting Officer. Subcontractors will also submit these reports to the Government's Contracting Officer or as otherwise directed, with a copy to the prime Contractor's designated small and disadvantaged business liaison. L.10 TECHNICAL QUESTIONS

a. All technical questions concerning this Request for Proposal shall be submitted electronically and shall be received by the Contract Specialist by December 14, 2012. Any questions for which answers can be provided may be conveyed to prospective offerors by amendment to this solicitation, with copies of both the questions and answers being supplied to all prospective offerors, without reference as to the originating source. Technical questions submitted by telephone or verbally will not be honored. b. Offerors shall submit any questions they may have via electronic mail (E-mail) to CCIIO_Eligibility_Support@cms.hhs.gov. Questions shall be submitted in Microsoft Excel. (See format below) c. Submission of questions shall include at a minimum, company name, address, point of contact, phone number, and: For EACH question submitted the offeror shall provide: 1. Document 2. Document Section Number (Including Subparagraph Designation) 3. Section Title 4. Question

83 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Example: Document SOW Solicitation Section 3.4 L.13 Section Title Complex Issue Resolution General Instructions Question

d. The Government will not entertain opinion based statements, but only questions based upon the government's requirements as presented in the RFP. e. Offerors should note that in order to remain on the timeline for award, late questions may not be able to be addressed. f. NOTE: Offerors shall direct all communications to the attention of the Contract Specialist cited on the face page of this RFP. Communications with other officials may compromise the competitiveness of this acquisition and result in cancellation of the requirement or an offeror's eligibility for award. L.11 NAICS CODE AND SMALL BUSINESS SIZE STANDARD

a. The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611 (Administrative Management and General Management Consulting). b. The small business size standard is $14 million in average annual receipts. c. The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture is [N/A] employees. L.12 REQUIREMENT FOR TECHNICAL DATA REPRESENTATION

The offeror shall submit with its offer a representation as to whether the offeror has delivered or is obligated to deliver to the Government under any contract or subcontract the same or substantially the same technical data included in its offer; if so, the offeror shall identify: (a) Existing contract or subcontract under which the technical data were delivered or will be delivered, and the place of delivery; and (b) Any limitation on the Government's right to use or disclose the data, including, when applicable, identification of the earliest date the limitation expires.

84 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
L.13 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

The following establishes the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals: a. The proposal must be prepared as follows: ˇ ˇ ˇ Volume I - Business Proposal (See Section L.16) Volume II - Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate and Compliance Program Attestation (See Section L.17) Volume III - Written Technical Proposal (See Section L.18)

Each of the parts shall be separate and complete in itself so the evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of evaluation of the other. The written technical proposal must not contain reference to price/cost; however, resource information such as data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontract, etc., may be contained in the technical proposal so that your understanding of the scope of the work may be evaluated. b. The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M of this RFP. c. The offeror is advised that its proposal will become part of the official contract file. d. The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed acquisition. e. ASSUMPTION - Offerors shall assume a contract start date of June 1, 2013. f. It is the Government's intention that all work under this contract shall be performed within the contiguous United States. g. CMS anticipates awarding one (1) contract. However, CMS reserves the right to adjust the number of total awards as determined appropriate. h. Late Proposals will be handled in accordance with FAR 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors - Competitive Acquisition. i. CMS reserves the right to amend or cancel the RFP as necessary.

85 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
j. Offerors should not assume that the Contracting Officer will independently obtain information necessary to evaluate the offeror's proposal, and should therefore supply all information required by this RFP for the evaluation of its proposal. The offeror's failure to provide the information required could result in rejection of the proposal. PROPOSAL ORGANIZATION

L.14

The offeror's proposal submission shall consist of Volume I, Business Proposal; Volume II, Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate and Compliance Program Attestation; and, Volume III, Written Technical Proposal. (See Sections L.16, L.17 and L.18, respectively). Your proposal shall be organized as follows: a. Volume I - Business Proposal: The Business Proposal shall consist of the following (See also Section L.16): 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Table of Contents SF-33, Section K Representations and Certifications, and Section H as Applicable Information Other Than Cost & Pricing Data (See Attachment J-8) Subcontractor proposal(s) if applicable Consultant Agreement(s) if applicable Indirect Cost Rate Agreement, Forward Pricing Rate Agreements and Rate History 7. Other Administrative Data: a) b) c) d) e) f) g) h) i) Statement of Proposal Validity (minimum of 270 days is required) Statement of Offeror's Financial Capability Subcontract Plan (See Attachment J-3) CAS Disclosure Statement (If Applicable) Approved Accounting and Estimating System Property Uncompensated Overtime Total Compensation Plan Service Contract Act Wage Determination Crosswalk

8. Small Disadvantaged Business Participation b. Volume II - Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI) Certificate and Compliance Program Attestation The offeror's proposal shall be organized as follows: (See also Section L.17)
86 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
1. OCI Certificate 2. Compliance Program Attestation c. Volume III - Written Technical Proposal: The Written Technical Proposal shall consist of the following: (See also Section L.18): 1. Executive Summary 2. Pass/Fail Screening 3. Eligibility Support Technical Capability ­ Technical Understanding ­ Technical Approach ­ Feasibility 4. Program Management ­ Management Plan ­ Organizational Structure ­ Key Personnel and Staffing 5. Relevant Corporate Experience 6. Past Performance L.15 PROPOSAL PRESENTATION

a. Proposal Delivery - Offerors shall deliver to the following address at the date and time specified on the Standard Form 33, submit one (1) original and ten (10) copies of the Technical, Business and Organizational Conflict of Interest proposal volumes and 1 CD-ROM in each copy of the required volumes (i.e., Volume I: Business Proposal, Volume II: OCI Certificate and Compliance Program Attestation, and Volume III: Written Technical Proposal): Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Acquisition Support Group ATTN: Christina Eberhart, Phone: 410-786-1558 Solicitation No.: HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002 7500 Security Boulevard, B3-30-03 Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 CD-ROM files shall be in either Microsoft Office Word or Excel ­ Version 2007. Files must be searchable. The CD-ROM copy of the business proposal templates shall be provided in Excel, be unprotected and include all formulas utilized in the formation of the spreadsheets. Annual reports and corporate policies may be submitted in Adobe Acrobat or PDF format. Organizational charts may be submitted in Microsoft PowerPoint or Adobe version 2003 or 2007. Microsoft Project Files are acceptable
87 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
(version 2003 or 2007). However, in any case where a portion of the offeror's proposal is sent in Microsoft Project it must be accompanied by a PDF document that includes the same information. Offerors are hereby advised that the place for submission of proposals (CMS Single Site at 7500 Security Blvd, Baltimore (Woodlawn), Maryland), is a secure building. Proposal delivery must be made to the exact location stated in this solicitation on or before the date and time specified. Offerors are also advised to make sure that the proposal is clearly marked as to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ The RFP number, The date and time for receipt, The intended recipient, and The telephone number of the intended recipient.

For hand delivered proposals, offerors shall enter the CMS single site facility through the North Gate--Dogwood Road. For security purposes offerors shall contact the Contract Specialist via email at CCIIO_Eligibility_Support@cms.hhs.gov with the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Delivery personnel name Year, make, and model of delivery vehicle Vehicle license plate number Approximate number of boxes Anticipated date and time of delivery

The above information should be received by the Contract Specialist at least 24 hours prior to delivery. If the above information is unknown 24 hours prior to delivery, the offeror should provide the information as soon as it becomes available, but no later than 3 hours before proposal drop-off. Personnel will be asked to verify the above information at the North Gate-Dogwood Road prior to entering the CMS complex. Upon verification, the delivery vehicle will be directed to the CMS warehouse, where proposals will be received. Offerors may, at a minimum, be subject to a vehicle search and all packages/boxes and their contents may be opened and searched prior to entering the CMS complex. Offerors are cautioned that hand-delivered proposals are considered "received" by CMS when the offeror receives a signed receipt by the Contract Specialist or Contracting

88 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Officer or their designee indicating the time and date of proposal receipt, which, if following the above guidance, will take place at the CMS warehouse. Proposal delivery by a mail carrier service other than the U.S. Postal Service are not accepted in the CMS mailroom and therefore, offerors' proposals may not be delivered timely to the location and person specified in this solicitation. Offerors are reminded that FAR 52.215-1 does not make allowance for proposals received late when submitted by mail services other than the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service. Offerors are advised to take that possibility into consideration in determining when and how a proposal must be received at the specified location to meet the date and time requirements. The prime contractor is responsible for tracking the submissions of any proposed subcontracts in the event that the subcontractors find a need to submit business information under separate cover. It is the responsibility of the prime contractor in its Executive Summary and its Technical Submission to clearly identify ALL proposed subcontractors. It is the responsibility of the prime contractor to ensure timely submission of separate subcontractor proposals. While subcontractor pricing proposals may be evaluated if received late, the government may consider this lack of responsibility to be a significant weakness in the area of program management and this may be reflected in the evaluation of that criteria. NOTE: For the purposes of this procurement, the Government is accepting ONLY hard copy submissions, no electronic submissions and no facsimile submissions. b. Binding and Labeling - All proposals shall be in locking 3 ring binders. A binder cover sheet shall be affixed to each volume, which clearly identifies each volume, volume number, copy number (e.g. copy 2 of 10), the Request for Proposal (RFP) identification, and offeror's name. If the material for a volume requires more than one book, then that volume shall be labeled with the name and number of the volume and book number, i.e., Written Technical Proposal, Volume III, Book 1 of 2. The original of Volumes I, II and III shall be marked ORIGINAL and all other copies shall be marked COPY. c. Indexing - TAB indexing shall be used to identify all sections. Each volume shall be organized such that an extensive search of required documents is not necessary to review the proposal. d. Page Size, Typing, Spacing and Page Numbering - Page size shall be 8 ˝ by 11 inches. Fold-outs will count as two pages. The proposal shall be numbered. Please print on both sides if possible. Submit proposals, to the extent possible, on high grade white paper

89 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
that can be recycled. Type size shall not be less than 12 point with at least a single space between lines. Line height shall be no less than the default setting for the software program being utilized. Margins shall be no less than 1". Graphs and tables shall be no less than 8 point type and single spaced. The Contracting Officer, at his/her discretion, shall have the authority to waive minor deviations from the above specifications. The number of pages for Volume I (Business Proposal) and Volume II (Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate and Compliance Program Attestation) are not limited, however, they should be carefully prepared to be clear and concise. Volume III (Written Technical Proposal) is limited to 50 single sided pages or 25 double sided pages. Any pages beyond the maximum allowed for Volume III will not be considered. The Written Technical Proposal Volume III shall include an Executive Summary that will count against the 50 page limit. Additionally, the following items shall be included as an appendix and will not count against the 50 page limit: ˇ ˇ ˇ Resumes for key personnel - are limited to three (3) pages each. Resumes should be at least 12 point font with no less than a single space between lines Key Personnel Letters of Commitment with negotiated salary specified Final, fully executed subcontracting agreements - and any legal documentation substantiating new legal entities as required by Section L.18.b, Pass/Fail Requirements Past performance information BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

ˇ L.16

The business proposal shall be comprised of the following elements: a. Table of Contents b. SF-33, Section K Representations and Certifications and Section H.9 Key Personnel The SF-33 and the Representations and Certifications contained in Section K must be executed by an official authorized to bind the offeror. In addition, complete Section H.9, Key Personnel, including the name, e-mail and phone number of designated key personnel.

90 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
c. Information Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data Certified cost or pricing data is not required; however, CMS is requesting information other than certified cost or pricing data in order to establish a fair and reasonable price and cost realism. Data shall be provided in accordance with FAR 52.215-20 (Alt IV). 1. General Pricing Instructions The Business Proposal shall set forth the offeror's proposed price on a CPFF basis. The offeror shall submit a written narrative and Attachment J-8, Eligibility Support Pricing Template, as part of its Business Proposal. The offeror shall provide in the written narrative any explanations the offeror deems necessary for the Government to understand the derivation of the pricing proposed. The offeror shall provide its proposed pricing in the format specified in Attachment J-8 to the solicitation. This shall include all costs and fees anticipated for all phases of operation (i.e., transition and full operations). On the CD/DVD submitted with the Business Proposal, the offeror shall retitle this worksheet as "Offeror Name_Pricing Worksheet." Application volumes and other variables impacting the size and scope of eligibility support operations are currently unknown. Therefore, to ensure consistency in the derivation of offerors' proposed pricing, this RFP provides pricing assumptions to be used by all offerors for bidding purposes. Where numerical assumptions are provided by the Government in this RFP (e.g., labor hours, travel costs, ODCs), the offeror shall use these assumptions to derive its proposed pricing. Offerors may have accounting systems which treat certain activities designated in the pricing template as indirect vs. direct costs or may have an organizational structure which would not allow them to easily segregate costs into a direct cost element as defined in the pricing structure spreadsheets. Therefore, offerors may present costs for only those line items with identifiable direct costs. For those items not separately priced, insert "N/A," provide a narrative description as to why the line item is labeled "N/A" and how costs for that activity are being accounted for in the proposal. 2. Eligibility Support Pricing Template Instructions The purpose of Attachment J-8, Eligibility Support Pricing Template, is to ensure consistency and transparency in the derivation of offerors' proposed pricing. This requires the offeror to show the break-out of the cost elements used in the derivation of proposed pricing. Categories and amounts are required for the entire contract period, including for the base period and all option periods. Attachment J-8 is comprised of 17 individual tabs as follows:

91 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Tab 1. Tab 2. Tab 3. Tab 4. Tab 5. Tab 6. Tab 7. Tab 8. Tab 9. Tab 10. Tab 11. Tab 12. Tab 13. Tab 14. Tab 15. Tab 16. Tab 17. Base Year Required Tasks Base Year Optional Tasks Base Year Facilities Option Year 1 Required Tasks Option Year 1 Optional Tasks Option Year 1 Facilities Option Year 2 Required Tasks Option Year 2 Optional Tasks Option Year 2 Facilities Option Year 3 Required Tasks Option Year 3 Optional Tasks Option Year 3 Facilities Option Year 4 Required Tasks Option Year 4 Optional Tasks Option Year 4 Facilities Summary Change Tracker

Offerors shall follow the instructions below when completing Attachment J-8: General Guidelines a) Formulas: Where data was derived or estimated, the offeror must show formulas that are clearly visible in the individual cells and verifiable. The offeror shall include formulas for cumulative totals, subtotals, and grand totals as necessary for labor hours, FTEs, costs, and other items. b) Links: The offeror may link cells between worksheets or workbooks on the condition that all linked reference files are submitted with the proposal. The workbooks must not contain any macros or hidden cells. The Government will not accept pasted values where formulas must be shown; if the offeror employs pasted values under these circumstances, this may delay the offeror's proposal evaluation. c) Supportive Narratives: The offeror shall provide supportive narratives to explain where a data field in the pricing template is left blank or has $0 price.

92 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Tabs 1, 4, 7, 10, and 13 ­ Required Tasks For the base period and each option period, the offeror shall provide all costs associated with performing the following required tasks as described in the Statement of Work: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Task 1, Paper Intake and Forms Processing Task 2, Support Processing of Paper Applications Task 3, Support Verification of Information Task 4, Complex Issue Resolution Task 5, Limited Telephone Support Task 6, Mass Changes Task 7, Standard Operating Procedures Task 8, Training and Coordination Task 9, Performance, Quality Assurance and Data Analytics Task 10, Program Management

Please note that the offeror does not need to provide separate cost and pricing data for each required task. a) Labor: The offeror shall propose direct labor costs as specified below: Labor Categories and Hours: The Government has specified the labor categories and labor hours to be used by offerors for pricing purposes. For bidding purposes, the offeror shall use the labor categories and hours pre-populated in Attachment J-8 and also provided in Attachment J-9, Eligibility Support Level of Effort Assumptions, to derive its total estimated direct labor costs. The offeror shall not change the specified labor categories and associated levels of effort. Labor Rates: The offeror shall provide the unburdened labor rates associated with each labor category. The offeror's proposed labor rates shall be supported with payroll information, letters of commitment, and salary survey information. If the labor rates are escalated, the offeror shall provide a rationale for the proposed escalation rate. Labor rate escalation will not be dictated by the Government. That is a business decision for the offeror. Labor rate escalation impacts whether a contractor can recruit and retain qualified staff. The Government will likely use Global Insights forecasting information to inform its analysis of proposed labor rate escalation. Offerors must state their proposed escalation rates utilized in determining the labor projections for option years and if significant deviations from Global Insights are proposed, provide the rationale as to why such deviations would be warranted and are realistic to recruit and retain qualified staff.
93 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Key Personnel: The offeror shall designate Key Personnel with a "Yes" or "No" in the "Key Personnel" column. Subcontractors: Any subcontractor labor shall be listed in the worksheets in the "Prime/Sub" column and should clearly indicate which subcontractor is associated with each applicable labor category. If a labor category pertains to both the prime contractor and its subcontractor(s), separate lines should be added to clearly delineate which labor hours, FTEs, and costs relate to the prime contractor versus the subcontractor(s). Total labor hours, FTEs, and costs should be shown in separate line items for the prime contractor and each of its subcontractors as reflected in the worksheets. Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs): The offeror must provide FTEs associated with each proposed labor category. The offeror shall clearly note the annual productive labor hours used for their FTE (e.g., 1,920 hours). Total Labor Cost: The offeror must provide the total costs associated with each labor category. Total direct labor costs for the prime contractor and each of its subcontractors shall be provided. b) ODCs: For bidding purposes, all ODCs except for facilities costs are specified by the Government and are pre-populated in Attachment J-8. This includes ODCs related to scanners and printers, postage, training, and video teleconferencing. The offeror shall not change the specified cost amounts for ODCs and shall include these costs within its proposed CPFF. Details concerning ODCs will be agreed upon after contract award. For bidding purposes, the offeror shall assume that all ODCs would be incurred by the prime contractor. c) Travel: For bidding purposes, travel costs are specified by the Government and are pre-populated in Attachment J-8. The offeror shall not change the specified cost amounts for travel and shall include these costs within its proposed CPFF. Details concerning the actual number of trips, number of travelers, and destinations will be agreed upon after contract award. For bidding purposes, the offeror shall assume that all travel would be performed by the prime contractor. d) Facilities: The offeror shall propose facilities costs associated with performing the Eligibility Support functions. A separate break-down of proposed facilities costs is required and shall be provided at Tabs 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 in accordance with the instructions detailed below.

94 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
e) Indirect Costs: The offeror shall propose all indirect costs, including fringe benefits, overhead, and G&A expenses, for the prime contractor and its subcontractor(s). The offeror shall clearly delineate the indirect cost rates applicable to the prime contractor versus its subcontractor(s). In the written narrative, the offeror shall explain its organization's overhead structure and detail what is encompassed within their overhead costs. f) Fee: The offeror shall propose a fixed fee for the offeror and a separate fixed fee for its subcontractor(s). The full fee should not be proposed on the subcontractor costs. Also, fee shall not be proposed on the travel or postage costs that are specified by the Government. The offeror shall provide the basis and rationale for the proposed fee as part of the written narrative. Tabs 2, 5, 8, 11, and 14 ­ Optional Tasks For the base period and each option period, the offeror shall provide all costs associated with performing the following optional tasks as described in the Statement of Work: ˇ ˇ ˇ Optional Task 11, Development of Standard Operating Procedures Optional Task 12, Increase in Volume of Exchange Participation Optional Task 13, Increased Volume of Appeals Requests

The Government may exercise any of the optional tasks at its discretion at any time during the period of performance of this contract. For bidding purposes only, the offeror shall provide aggregated cost and pricing data for all three optional tasks, assuming that all three optional tasks would be exercised by the Government simultaneously. Please note that the offeror does not need to provide separate cost and pricing data for each optional task. The "Optional Tasks" worksheets follow the same format as the "Required Tasks" worksheets. Accordingly, the offeror shall follow the instructions detailed above for the "Required Tasks" when preparing the "Optional Tasks" worksheets. Tabs 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 - Facilities For the base period and each option period, the offeror shall provide the total cost for the facilities required to execute the Eligibility Support tasks described in the Statement of Work. Offerors shall complete the chart entitled "Facilities Costs: REQUIRED TASKS" by itemizing facilities costs associated with performing all required tasks (Tasks 1--10). Offerors shall complete the chart entitled "Facilities Costs: OPTIONAL TASKS" by

95 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
itemizing any additional facilities costs associated with performing Optional Tasks 11-- 13, should the Government choose to exercise those optional tasks. The facilities costs proposed by the offeror shall include all costs that are required for the Contractor to house all of the people and equipment to perform the Eligibility Support functions. Facilities costs are not to be amortized, but should be reported in the year in which they are expected to occur. Facilities pricing must define the cost elements that comprise the lease or buy pricing and include build out cost and any other direct costs (initial and ongoing). In the narrative portion of its Business Proposal, the offeror may supplement any information provided in Attachment J-8 with additional information to further describe the facilities pricing or lease/buy arrangements. Tab 16 - Summary The Summary worksheet provides a roll-up of all estimated costs and fixed fees associated with the Eligibility Support contract. This includes a break-down by required tasks and optional tasks and by contract period (e.g., base and options). The offeror shall link the totals from Tabs 1 through 15 to the Tab 16 Summary worksheet as appropriate. Tab 17 - Change Tracker Tab 17 provides a record of any changes that are initiated after submission of the offeror's initial proposal. The offeror shall clearly (i) indicate the date each change was initiated, (ii) identify by tab number the worksheet on which the change was made, (iii) describe the change, and (iv) provide a justification for the change. d. Subcontract Proposal(s) 1. The prime shall submit a complete business proposal for all subcontractors. Specifically, the proposal shall include the following: a) A copy of the subcontract agreement which includes: (For the purpose of providing the business proposal information required by this section, draft subcontract and teaming agreements are acceptable. However, please note that subcontracting agreements and the establishment of new legal entities must be final and fully executed at the time of proposal submission for those offerors utilizing the experience of subcontractors to meet the pass/fail criteria (See Section M.4). Additionally, please note that in evaluating small disadvantaged

96 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
business participation (See Section M.7), CMS will evaluate the extent to which SDB concerns are specifically identified and the extent of the offeror's commitment to use SDB concerns (e.g., are subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, teaming agreements). ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ A description of the services to be subcontracted (i.e., Statement of Work): Identification of the pricing arrangement (e.g., Fixed Price, Cost Plus Fixed Fee); Proposed subcontract price; and, Flow down of appropriate FAR clauses

b) Section K Representations and Certifications c) Information other than certified cost and pricing data - Subcontractor cost or pricing data shall be submitted in the same format as the prime's proposal. d) All other information required as part of the prime contractor's proposal submission. (e.g., a copy of any current Government agreements on indirect cost rates, indirect rate history for the past three years if applicable, and other administrative data). e) Provide a statement as to the adequacy of each subcontractor's accounting system, what agency made the determination of adequacy, and provide supporting documentation of the determination. If a subcontractor does not have an adequate accounting system, the subcontractor will be unable to be awarded cost reimbursement or Time and Materials subcontracts until their accounting system is deemed adequate. f) If a subcontractor is providing a commercial item and/or service, the subcontractor must demonstrate that its supplies and/or services meet the definition set forth in FAR 2.1. The subcontractor should substantiate its prices by providing information in the form regularly maintained by the offeror in its commercial operations. 2. The prime contractor shall a) Conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices (See FAR 15.404-3).

97 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
If a subcontractor is claiming their price is based on a commercial item, the subcontractor must demonstrate that its supplies and/or services meet the definition set forth in FAR 2.1. b) Include the results of these analyses in the form of a subcontract negotiation memorandum reflecting: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ The principal elements of the subcontract price negotiations: The most significant considerations controlling establishment of initial or revised prices; The reason cost or pricing data were or were not required; The extent, if any, to which the Contractor relied on the subcontractor's cost or pricing data in determining the price objective and in negotiating the final price; The extent to which it was recognized in the negotiations that the subcontractor's cost and pricing data were not accurate, complete or current: the action taken by the Contractor and the subcontractor; and the effect of any such defective data on the total price negotiated; The reasons for any significant difference between the Contractor's price objective and the price negotiated; and, A complete explanation of the incentive fee or profit plan when incentives are used. The explanation shall identify each critical performance element, management decision used to quantify each incentive element, reasons for the incentives, and a summary of all trade-off possibilities considered.

ˇ ˇ

c) Description of the extent to which price competition was obtained, or justification for its absence. d) Statement as to whether the proposed subcontractor is on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Non-procurement Programs. e. Consultant Agreements The offeror shall furnish the following information for all consultants proposed: ˇ ˇ ˇ The necessity of contracting for the service, considering the contractor's capability in the particular area. The past pattern of acquiring such services and their costs. Whether the service can be performed more economically by employment rather than by contracting.

98 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ˇ ˇ The qualifications of the individual or concern rendering the service and the customary fee charged, especially on non-Government contracts. A written determination that the rate proposed for the consultant is fair and reasonable and the Contractor's statement regarding whether or not the fees paid to the Consultant will exceed the lowest fee charged by others for performing similar consulting services. A justification for the number of hours proposed for the Consultant. A copy of the contractual agreement for the service which shall include description of the service, estimate of time required, rate of compensation, termination provisions.

ˇ ˇ

f. Indirect Cost Rate Agreements, Forward Pricing Rate Agreements and Rate History The offeror shall provide a copy of any forward pricing rate agreements, and any other Government indirect cost rate agreements used in pricing herein. If the offeror has no forward pricing rate agreement, or other Government indirect cost rate agreements in place, proposed rates shall be supported by documentation detailing how the rates used in this proposal were calculated. Specifically, the offeror shall provide: 1. The last two years of actual indirect rates with a rate schedule showing both the pool (by cost centers) and base of allocation for each indirect rate. 2. Budgeted out year indirect rates with sufficient detail to support the basis of estimate for each cost center in the overheard pool. The indirect bases should be in line with anticipated future work. NOTE: The offeror shall propose indirect rates assuming award of this contract, but no other contract(s) on which the offeror has proposed but no award has been made. It is assumed that award of this contract would have significant impact on how indirect rates are derived. Independent Research & Development (IR&D) ­ See the Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulations clause (HHSAR) 352.216-70, Additional Cost Principles, for the treatment of IR&D costs. Facilities Capital Cost of Money (FCCM) ­See the Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulation (HHSAR) section 315.404-4, Profit, for the treatment of FCCM.

99 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
g. Other Administrative data 1. Statement of Proposal Validity: Your proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP. In addition, it must contain a statement to the effect that it is firm for a period of at least 270 days from the date specified for receipt of offers by the Government. 2. Statement of Offeror's Financial Capability: Your proposal must indicate whether you have the necessary financial capacity, working capital, and other resources to perform the contract without assistance from any outside source (If not, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source). Include a copy of your audited financial statements for the past 2 fiscal years. If an audited financial statement is not available, provide the most recent revised, compiled or internally prepare financial statement. Offerors that are newly formed shall submit the financial statements of the "parent" company (ies). 3. Subcontract Plan: Prime contractors who are large businesses must submit a subcontract plan (See Section L.9 and Attachment J-3). 4. CAS Disclosure Statement: Offerors shall submit a CAS Disclosure Statement in accordance with FAR Part 30.202 as part of their business proposal. (Please also see Section K Representations and Certifications). If your CAS Disclosure Statement has previously been considered adequate, please indicate this by providing the following information: Approving agency, Point of Contact and phone number, and the date of the determination. 5. Approved Accounting and Estimating System: Offerors shall have a Government approved accounting system that is in compliance with applicable Contract Cost Principles of FAR Part 31 as well as FAR Appendix A, Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), in order to be considered for award of cost type contracts. Offerors shall provide a copy of the federal government audit and/or letter of approval from the cognizant Federal agency (See FAR 42.003), which deems the offeror's accounting system acceptable or adequate. Offerors shall also state if their practices used in estimating costs are consistent with their cost accounting practices used in accumulating, segregating and reporting costs. 6. Property: a) NOTE: It is HHS policy that Contractors provide all equipment, materials, facilities, etc. necessary for performance of this contract; however, in some instances, an exception may be granted to furnish Government owned property or to authorize

100 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
purchase with contract funds. If additional equipment must be acquired, you must include in your proposal the description and estimated cost of each item. b) You must identify all Government-owned property in your possession and all property acquired from Federal funds, to which you have title, which is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract. c) The management and control of Government Property must be in accordance with HHS Publication OS-686 entitled, "Contractor's Guide to Control of Government Property," a copy of which will be provided upon request. 7. Uncompensated Overtime: The offeror shall provide the information required by FAR 52.237-10, Identification of Uncompensated Overtime (Oct 1997). 8. Total Compensation Plan: The offeror shall provide a total compensation plan in accordance with FAR 52.222-46, Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees (Feb 1993). 9. Estimated Termination Liability: Transition phases will be fully funded. However, full operations will be incrementally funded, at a minimum, in monthly increments. If additional funds are not allotted, the Contracting Officer will terminate this contract in accordance with the provisions of the Termination clause of this contract. The Contractor is not obligated to continue performance under this contract (including actions under the Termination clause of this contract) or otherwise incur costs in excess of the amount then allotted to the contract (See FAR 52.232-22 Limitation of Funds). The estimated termination liability for each operational year will be mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and the Government after contract award. 10. Service Contract Act Wage Determination Crosswalk: Offerors shall identify the proposed labor categories subject to the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended (FAR 22.10) and provide a crosswalk to the labor category in the applicable Wage Determination for their place of performance. h. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) Participation Offerors shall include with their offers, SDB targets expressed as dollars and percentage of total contract value for proposed SDB subcontractors. In addition, offerors must provide information that describes their plans for meeting the targets set forth in their proposal.

101 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Specifically, the offeror shall: 1. List and Identify Proposed SDBs. Provide the name of the SDB, address, point of contact and phone number. Demonstrate that the SDB meets the size standard related to the NAICS code appropriate for the work they will be performing under the contract. 2. Describe the Extent of Offeror's Commitment to Use SDBs. Commitment should be as specific as possible (e.g. are subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, teaming arrangements). Provide copies of documents demonstrating this commitment. 3. Provide The Extent of Participation of SDBs in Terms of the Value of the Total Acquisition. The Offeror shall provide targets expressed as dollars and percentage of total contract value for SDB participation. These targets will be incorporated into and become a part of the resultant contract. Please see the following example: Total Contract Value (includes all options): SDB Participation by subcontractors (Dollars): SDB Participation by subcontractors (Percentage): $1,000,000 $150,000 15%

NOTE: Offerors should note that addressing the extent of small disadvantaged business participation is not in any way intended to be a substitute for submission of the subcontracting plan, which is required for this solicitation. L.17 ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATE AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM ATTESTATION PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

a. Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate 1. The offeror shall provide an Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI) Certificate which shall include the disclosure information required by Section H.10.d.1 (a) through (h). Failure to submit the required information may result in an offeror's proposal being deemed unacceptable. NOTE: CMS Compliance Program Guidance can be found on CMS's website at https://www.cms.gov/MedicareContractingReform/Downloads/compliance.pdf. You may wish to consult this guidance when documenting your compliance program for this requirement. 2. When describing the business relationships or activities, and contracts held as required by H.10.d.1, the description shall include at a minimum as applicable:
102 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
a) Identify whether the offeror is a Prime, Subcontractor, parent company, subsidiary, or other affiliated entity b) Contract Number or Other Identifier c) Period of Performance e) Points of Contact (Project Officer and Contracting Officer) f) Cost g) Short Description of Work h) Whether the identified contract, relationship or activity creates any of the following types of OCIs: (1) Unequal Access to Information, (2) Biased Ground Rule, (3) Impaired Objectivity, and/or (4) Other. If a potential organization conflict of interest is identified, the offeror must submit a mitigation plan as required by H.10.d.1. Please use Attachment J-12, Organizational Conflict of Interest Template, to input the specified information. Unequal Access to Information Consists of situations in which a firm has access to nonpublic information as part of its performance of a government contract and where that information may provide the firm a competitive advantage in a later competition for a government contract. § FAR 9.505-4. In these "unequal access to information" cases, the concern is limited to the risk of the firm gaining a competitive advantage; there is no issue of bias. Consists of situations in which a firm, as part of its performance of a government contract, has in some sense set the ground rules for another government contract by, for example, writing the statement of work or the specifications. In theses "biased ground rules" cases, the primary concern is that the firm could skew the competition, whether intentionally or not, in favor of itself. § FAR 9.505-1, 9.505-2. These situations may also involve a concern that the firm by virtue of its special knowledge of the agency's future requirements would have an unfair advantage in the competition for those requirements. Consists of situations where a firm has conflicting roles that might bias a contractor's judgment including but not limited to where a firm's work under one government contract could entail evaluating itself, either through an assessment of performance under another contract or an evaluation of proposals. § FAR 9.505-3. In theses "impaired objectivity" cases, the concern is that the firm's ability to render impartial advice to the government could be or appear to be undermined.

Biased Ground Rules

Impaired Objectivity

3. All proposed subcontractor(s) must disclose to the prime contractor all contracts, both government (local, state and Federal) and non-government currently held as a prime and/or subcontractor, at the same level required under "a" through "h" stated above.

103 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
4. Examples of methods an offeror may use to mitigate conflicts of interest, including conflicts created as a result of the financial relationships of officers, directors and managers within the organization are provided below. The examples are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the possible methods to mitigate conflicts of interest. Further the Contacting Officer is not obligated to approve a mitigation method that uses one or more of these examples. An offeror's method of mitigating conflicts of interest, if required, will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis during the proposal evaluation process. ˇ ˇ Divestiture of the financial relationship the organization has in another organization; If the conflict exists because of the financial relationships of individuals within the organization, recusal of the individual from decisions related to the interest or divestiture of the relationships by the individual involved; and, If the conflict exists because of an individual's indirect interest, recusal of the individual from decision related to the interest, divestiture of the interest or removal of the individual from the work under the contract.

ˇ

b. Compliance Program Attestation In addition to the affirmation required at H.10.d.1.f, the offeror shall provide a Compliance Program Attestation in the format specified by CMS. (See Attachment J-6) c. Consideration for Award Exclusion As described in Section B of the RFP, the services solicited in this request for proposal support the FFE and SBEs for the Eligibility Support tasks under the Affordable Care Act. The tasks in the associated Statement of Work include the intake, routing, review, and troubleshooting of applications submitted for enrollment into a QHP and for insurance affordability programs including, but not limited to, Advance Payment of Premium Tax Credits, Cost-Sharing Reductions, Medicaid, CHIP, and the Basic Health Program (where applicable), beginning on October 1, 2013. Contractors that are working on or have worked on contracts awarded by CMS to build systems that collect and process Eligibility verifications and Enrollment transactions and/or build systems that integrate with the FFE to facilitate Eligibility verifications and Enrollment transactions have been given access to all or nearly all of CMS' Eligibility and Enrollment information. That knowledge provides those contractors with unequal access to information that affords them an unfair
104 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
competitive advantage. In accordance with FAR 9.5, any offeror that meets the above description is ineligible to receive consideration for award as a prime contractor, subcontractor, and consultant or in any other role. See also Contract Section H.10.c.2.(e). L.18 WRITTEN TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

a. Executive Summary The written technical proposal Volume III shall include an Executive Summary that must, at a minimum, identify the offeror's proposed team to include all subcontractors and consultants and their size status in relation to the work they will be performing under this contract. b. Pass/Fail Requirements The offeror shall demonstrate how it has met the pass/fail requirements in Section M of this solicitation by providing the following information listed in items 1-3, below. If this narrative summary does not clearly explain how the offeror met each pass/fail requirement, the Agency is under no obligation to seek information from sources outside the Proposal's pass/fail requirements section. 1. A narrative summary of how the offeror met the pass/fail criteria. 2. As applicable, a copy of final, fully executed subcontracts, teaming agreements and legal documentation substantiating any new legal entities. 3. Cite a specific example or examples which support the offeror's assertion that it meets the pass/fail criteria. Information provided for each example shall include at a minimum:  Name of Contracting Activity  Contract Number  Contract Period of Performance  Contract Description and how it meets the pass/fail criteria  Contracting Officer and Telephone  Government or Customer Program Manager and Telephone c. Evaluation Criteria The offeror shall clearly demonstrate its understanding of CMS requirements as set forth in the Eligibility Support Statement of Work.

105 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The offeror shall provide its overall approach to the following: 1. Eligibility Support Technical Capability a) The offeror shall provide a detailed description of its technical approach to eligibility support and managing performance metrics set forth in the Eligibility Support Statement of Work. The offeror shall provide a description of its proposed approach for executing the contract requirements. The offeror shall describe how it will address the projected workload and any contingency plans for handling the fluctuations in volume. The offeror shall also address any mitigation strategies proposed to ensure the successful implementation of the program. b) The offeror shall describe the facilities proposed for all operations and the time frames for their implementation. This discussion should include, at a minimum: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ a description of the infrastructure layout a description of how minimum hours of availability will be achieved any disaster recovery considerations a description of how the workspace will be configured whether existing facilities are being proposed or if a build-out is required if facilities will be shared with other engagements (and if so, how segregation of activities will be accomplished) the location(s) and mailing address(es) of the proposed processing center site(s)

The offeror shall describe its strategy to ensure facilities are flexible and expandable to accommodate additional staffing if necessary for spikes in volumes, as well as to accommodate new technologies or pilots as required by CMS. c) The offeror shall provide a high level discussion of its strategy and method for business continuity and disaster recovery planning.
2. Program Management

a) The offeror shall describe its program management approach and how this program management approach supports and complements eligibility

106 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
support operations. The program management approach shall demonstrate a cohesive approach to managing large document processing centers, meeting performance metrics, and providing value-added, cost-saving innovations. Program management should detail the offeror's approach to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Strategic planning, Financial planning and management, Risk identification, planning, and mitigation, Issue resolution, Project management, and Policy and regulatory support.

The offeror shall describe how its approach has been successfully implemented on other engagements of similar size and scope as the eligibility support operations. b) As part of the program management approach, the offeror shall provide a detailed description of its business model for supporting the program, including identification of all significant team members/subcontractors along with the identification and a description of respective roles. The offeror shall include an approach to ensure effective and efficient communications with CMS on all areas of the eligibility support operation and supporting business process. The offeror shall describe how it has effectively provided the required reporting in previous engagements and how it supported ongoing communications and process improvements. c) The offeror shall provide and explain its methodology for staffing. The offeror shall include an explanation of how its facilities approach (i.e., location of eligibility support processing centers) will support the fluctuations in staffing throughout the year. d) The offeror shall provide its staffing plan for ensuring schedule adherence. The government will consider staffing plans that provide for overlapping responsibilities or less than full time allocation to this contract if the offeror can demonstrate that such a plan is in the best interest of the government. e) The offeror shall provide its approach for conducting training within the eligibility support processing centers and how its approach would support the eligibility support operations.

107 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
f) The offeror shall provide and explain its methodology for determining process improvement opportunities within the eligibility support processing centers and how this methodology was implemented on other engagements of similar size and scope as the eligibility support operations. g) The offeror shall provide a conceptual discussion of its overall approach to quality management and the processes and procedures for ensuring the quality and reliability of its products and services. Discussion shall include the offeror's quality approach to functions including, but not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Paper Intake and Forms Processing, Support Processing of Paper Applications, Support Verification of Information, Complex Issue Resolution, Limited Telephone Support, Mass Changes, Standard Operating Procedures, Training and Coordination, Performance, Quality Assurance and Data Analytics, and Program Management.

h) The offeror shall describe its approach to, at a minimum, sampling and evaluating the quality, accuracy and consistency of customer interactions using correspondence (e.g., telephone, TDD/TTY, email, written, fax), and ensuring the quality standards are consistent with the nature of the standards established. The offeror shall also describe its methodology and experience with utilizing a translation service integrating with its operations. i) The offeror shall detail its understanding and approach to performance measurement including the use of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), as well as specific processes, procedures, and/or methodologies the offeror may use to meet or exceed KPIs. j) The offeror shall include a list of names and proposed duties of the key personnel assigned to the Eligibility Support Contract. The offeror shall, at a minimum, provide resumes for the following key personnel positions: ˇ ˇ ˇ Program Director Project Manager Regional Manager(s)

108 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Resumes shall contain information on education, professional background, general and industry specific professional accomplishments. Each resume shall contain sufficient detail to clearly indicate the person is qualified for the position proposed. Letters of commitment are required of all key personnel not presently employed by the offeror. The letter of commitment shall include the date of availability, how long the individual's commitment is binding, agreed upon yearly salary, and be signed by the individual.
3. Relevant Corporate Experience

The offeror shall demonstrate experience with contracts of similar size and scope to that defined in the Statement of Work. Contracts listed may include those entered into with the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers. The offeror shall demonstrate experience in the following areas: a) Experience successfully operating a document processing operation of similar size and scope to that which is described in the Statement of Work and this RFP. In evaluating this experience, CMS will consider the volume of the paper intake and electronic submissions, the variety and complexity of the submitted forms and documents, the handling of complex issues, and the successful use of information technology. b) Experience with communicating and coordinating simultaneously with at least two (2) entities (one of which must include a federal, state, or local entity) to accomplish program objectives on a nationwide scale. c) Experience adhering to security standards and Government records management procedures, and remediating security vulnerabilities. d) Experience with eligibility and enrollment policy and operations, including public benefit programs and private health insurance products, and/or activities that are similar from a subject matter or operational perspective. e) Experience designing and implementing training programs for staff. f) Experience adjusting capacity quickly for increases and decreases in workload.

109 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
The offeror shall include the following information for each contract and/or subcontract: ˇ Name of Contracting Activity ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Contract Number Contract Pricing Arrangement Period of Performance Total contract value Contract description and how it demonstrates the experience required above Contracting Officer and telephone Customer's Program Manager and telephone Administrative Contracting Officer, if different from the Contracting Officer, and telephone

4. Past Performance

CMS will evaluate the offeror's past performance on contracts similar in size and scope to the Statement of Work. More recent past performance will be given more weight. Offerors shall submit the following information as part of their proposal for both the offeror and proposed significant or critical subcontractors ("significant" or "critical" is defined as those subcontractors who are performing a portion of the requirement considered critical to the success of Eligibility Support). Offerors shall submit a list of at least the last three (3) most current (within the last 3 years), relevant contracts and/or subcontracts (completed or currently in progress) for the prime contractor and any significant or critical subcontractors (3 each for prime and significant/critical subcontractors). Contracts listed may include those entered into with the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers and may be the same as those referenced under corporate experience and the pass/fail criteria. Include the following information for each contract and subcontract: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Name of Contracting Activity Contract Number Contract Type (including whether the contract utilized an award or an incentive fee) Total Contract Value Period of Performance

110 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Contract Description and why the offeror feels it is relevant to the scope of this effort Contracting Officer (CO) and Telephone Program Manager and Telephone Administrative Contracting Officer (If Different from the CO Above) and Telephone Information on Problems Encountered and offeror's Corrective Action (if applicable) A copy of the most recent award fee or incentive fee determination(s) (as applicable) that the offeror has been provided, applicable to a time period of at least the most recent year

A joint venture having no past performance history itself may provide references based on the constituent companies. In addition, offerors having no organizational past performance record may provide references for proposed "key personnel." The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the services required. The offeror should describe when the award or certification was bestowed. If the award or certification is over three years old, the offeror should present evidence that the qualifications still apply. The attached questionnaire (Attachment J-10) must be submitted by the offeror directly to the references listed in this section. The attachment includes a sample cover letter, instructions for questionnaire response and the questionnaire. References shall be asked to submit their responses directly to the Contracting Officer by the date and time that proposals are due.. CMS may notify the prime contractor to follow up with those references that have not responded by the date specified. References other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the Government with the information received used in the evaluation of the offeror's past performance. NOTE: If your designated references above have previously submitted a past performance evaluation in the Government's Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), please acknowledge this in your submission. A separate past performance questionnaire is not required in this case. CMS will obtain the information directly from PPIRS.

111 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
L.19 ORAL PRESENTATIONS

The Government reserves the right to hold oral presentations at any time during the evaluation process. The Government also reserves the right to determine the need and the applicability of oral presentations based upon the Government's available resources. If it is determined that oral presentations will be required, offerors will be provided specific instructions and schedule information at least 14 days prior to the scheduled oral presentation. L.20 TREATMENT OF DATA IN PROPOSALS (FOIA)

The proposal(s) submitted in response to this request may contain data (trade secrets, business data, e.g., commercial information, financial information, and cost and pricing data; and technical data) which the offeror, including the prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the proposal. The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted, provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). In U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the following legend, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted in accordance with the conditions of the legend. "Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information (FOI) Officials of the Department of Health and Human Services, data contained in the portions of this proposal which have been specifically identified by page number, paragraph, etc. by the offeror as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for evaluation purposes." The Government's determination to withhold or disclose a record will be based upon the particular circumstances involving the record in question and whether the record may be exempted from disclosure under the FOIA. The offeror acknowledges that the Department may not be able to withhold a record (data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record requested pursuant to the Act and that the Department's FOI Officials must make that determination. The offeror hereby agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure if the Department has determined that disclosure is required by the Act. The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose, including the release

112 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
of the information pursuant to requests under the Act. Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive legends or statements differing in substance from the above legend may not be considered for award. The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with a nonconforming legend. L.21 FAR 52.252-3 ALTERATIONS IN SOLICITATION (APR 1984)

Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: _____________________________________________ _____________________________________________ _____________________________________________

113 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD
M.1 FAR 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.acquisition.gov NUMBER 52.217-5 M.2 TITLE EVALUATION OF OPTIONS DATE JUL 1990

GENERAL PROCEDURES

a. Award will be made to the offeror whose proposal offers the best overall value to the Government. This will be determined by a trade-off technique that allows the Government to consider award to other than the lowest priced offeror or other than the highest technically rated offeror in accordance with FAR 15.101-1. It permits tradeoffs among cost and non-cost evaluation factors. b. Offerors are advised that primary consideration will be given to the technical quality of the proposals in the evaluation process. In accordance with FAR 15.101-1(b)(2), all evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price. However, as the degree of technical equality (i.e., all factors other than cost) increases between proposals, cost may become the determining factor for award. Although cost is not controlling, cost reasonableness and realism will be considered. NOTE: The combined evaluated (most probable) costs for the base period and all option periods will be utilized in determining the best value. c. CMS will perform a cost analysis on the total estimated cost to determine if it is fair and reasonable. CMS will also perform a cost realism analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(d).

114 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
d. The evaluation will be performed in accordance with the methodology set forth in Sections M.2 and M.3 and in accordance with the criteria set forth in Sections M.4 and M.5 below. e. The business proposal will be analyzed and evaluated to determine the reasonableness and the realism of the proposed cost/price. (The business proposal and Organizational Conflict of Interest Certificate will not be scored but will be reviewed in accordance with M.6, M.7 and M.8 of this Section.) f. Selection will be made in accordance with the guidelines of FAR Subpart 15.6, Source Selection. g. Offerors are hereby advised that proposals submitted in response to this solicitation will first be screened to determine if they pass the pass/fail requirements. Proposals that do not pass this first level screening will not be further considered in the source selection process. h . The methodology to be followed in the evaluation of the written technical proposal by the TEP will be the application of the technical criteria set forth in Sections M.4 and M.5 below. The evaluation will produce ratings for each offeror based upon the information contained in the proposals. Therefore, the written technical proposal shall provide all information necessary to properly evaluate the proposal in accordance with the evaluation criteria. The Contracting Officer may request clarifying information from an offeror, if required to complete the evaluation of the written technical proposal. An offeror should not assume that the Contracting Officer will independently obtain information necessary to evaluate its proposal and should therefore supply all information required to evaluate its proposal. Failure to provide the information required to evaluate a proposal may result in rejection of the proposal as being technically unacceptable or in a finding that the proposal is excluded from the competitive range. Information from any oral presentation, if applicable, may be used to inform the evaluation of the technical proposal. i. Pursuant to FAR Subpart 15.306(c)(2) and FAR Clause 52.215-1(f)(4), the Government may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals. In accordance with FAR 9.103, contracts shall be awarded to responsible prospective contractors only. Before awarding any contract, the Contracting Officer must make an affirmative determination of the prospective contractor's responsibility. FAR 9.104-1,

j.

115 | P a g e

General standards, lists the areas that shall be considered. A determination of nonresponsibility will preclude an offeror from receiving an award. k. CMS will not enter into a contract with an entity that it determines has, or has the potential for, an unresolved organizational conflict of interest unless the FAR waiver process is followed. l. Evaluation of the option periods will be conducted pursuant to FAR 52.217-5, Evaluation of Options.

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

m. CMS reserves the right to make a single award or multiple awards, but anticipates making one (1) award from this solicitation. In addition, the RFP may be amended or canceled as necessary to meet CMS requirements. M.3 EVALUATION PROCESS

The evaluation process for this acquisition will be accomplished as follows: a. All offerors' proposals will first be screened to determine if they pass the pass/fail requirements. Proposals that do not pass this first level screening will not be further considered in the source selection process. The evaluation factors to be used to determine if an offeror passes this initial screening process can be found in Section M.4 below. b. Once the pass/fail screening has been accomplished, the passing offerors' written technical proposals will then be evaluated in accordance with FAR 52.215-1 and the evaluation criteria contained in Sections M.4 and M.5 below. c. Once the pass/fail screening has been accomplished, a limited review of the passing offerors' business proposals will be conducted in accordance with Section M.8 below. A complete cost analysis and cost realism analysis will be accomplished prior to award if the Government awards a contract without discussions. If the Contracting Officer determines that discussions are necessary, a complete cost analysis and cost realism analysis will be accomplished after establishment of the competitive range. A passing offeror's proposal may be eliminated from the competition based upon the results of the evaluation of the written technical proposals and the limited review of the business proposals, prior to discussions or a full cost realism evaluation. d. If the Contracting Officer determines that discussions are necessary, the Contracting Officer will establish an initial competitive range comprised of all of the most highly rated proposals, unless the competitive range is further reduced for purposes of efficiency.

116 | P a g e

e. In accordance with FAR 15.306, if after discussions have begun, an offeror originally in the competitive range is no longer considered to be among the most highly rated offerors being considered for award, that offeror may be eliminated from the competitive range whether or not all material aspects of the proposal have been discussed, or whether or not the offeror has been afforded an opportunity to submit a proposal revision. f. If discussions are conducted, the Contracting Officer may request proposal revisions to clarify and document understandings reached during discussions. At the conclusion of discussions, each offeror still in the competitive range will be given an opportunity to submit a final proposal revision (FPR). g. If discussions are conducted, FPRs will be subject to: 1) final evaluation of price or cost and other salient factors; and, 2) an evaluation of technical factors as necessary. The technical evaluation panel may reevaluate offerors. h. After evaluation of the initial proposals or, if discussions are conducted, the FPRs, an apparent awardee will be selected for award. After selection of the successful proposal, the Contracting Officer may finalize details with the selected offeror, if necessary. This may involve, among other things, discussion of any outstanding organizational conflict of interest concerns. However, the Contracting Officer will not introduce any factor that could have an effect on the selection process after the common cutoff date for receipt of proposals, nor will the finalization process in any way prejudice the competitive interest or rights of the unsuccessful offerors. The Contracting Officer will restrict finalization of details with the selected offeror to definitizing the final agreement on terms and conditions, assuming none of these factors were involved in the selection process. M.4 TECHNICAL EVALUATION

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

a. Initial Screen - Pass/Fail Offerors are hereby advised that proposals submitted in response to this solicitation will be screened to determine if they pass the pass/fail requirements. Proposals that do not pass this first level screening will not be further considered in the source selection process. The evaluation factors to be used to determine if an offeror passes this initial screening process are as follows: (All criteria must be met in order to be considered further and, if this narrative summary does not clearly explain how the offeror meets each pass/fail requirement, the Agency is under no obligation to seek information from sources outside the Proposal's pass/fail requirements section.)

117 | P a g e

1. The offeror must demonstrate that it has operated and managed at least one facility that support intake, triage, review, storage, and destruction of submitted documentation, as well as receipt and processing of correspondence, for at least one client for a period of at least 12 consecutive months. 2. The offeror must demonstrate experience processing any combination of at least 15 million paper and/or electronic submissions per year for one client. 3. At the time of proposal submission, the offeror must provide documented proof that its accounting system has been approved (audited by a Federal Government agency or audit function, i.e., DCAA or DCMA) and is adequate for determining costs applicable to the contract. The approval of the accounting system must be within the last five years. IMPORTANT NOTES: These pass/fail requirements are based on the premise that to be successful in the performance of this contract, offerors must possess relevant capabilities which have been demonstrated through previous work experience that is verifiable by CMS. This experience must have occurred within the past three years and may be a combination of corporate experience from the offeror, or a single subcontractor that will perform major or critical aspects of the criteria and/or multiple legal entities that are owned under the offeror's single corporate umbrella. The offeror may be a newly-created subsidiary. A newly-created subsidiary may be able to meet these criteria using the experience of the offeror, a single subcontractor that will perform major or critical aspects of the criteria and/or multiple legal entities that are owned under the offeror's single corporate umbrella. "A single subcontractor that will perform major or critical aspects of the criteria" means a subcontractor proposed to perform a minimum of 25% of the labor hours. Subcontracting agreements and the establishment of new legal entities must be final and fully executed at the time of proposal submission. b. Evaluation Criteria For those proposals that pass the initial Pass/Fail screening, the evaluation criteria in Section M.5 below, with relative ratings (see rating definitions) assigned to each criterion as indicated, will be applied to the technical evaluation of each proposal. The technical evaluation criteria are listed below in descending order of importance. 1. 2. 3. 4. Eligibility Support Technical Capability Program Management Corporate Experience Past Performance

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

118 | P a g e

Rating Definitions: Eligibility Support Technical Capability and Program Management STANDARD Excellent MEANING The proposal demonstrates exceptional competence relative to the criterion. A comprehensive, sound and thorough approach, with many strengths and technical advantages. There are no significant weaknesses or deficiencies. Any weaknesses are insignificant when compared to the strengths. The proposal indicates a high probability that the Government's goals and objectives will be met. The proposal demonstrates high competence relative to the criterion. A comprehensive, sound and thorough approach with strengths and technical advantages. There are no deficiencies. Weaknesses and significant weaknesses may exist. The proposal indicates a high probability that the Government's goals and objectives will be met. The proposal demonstrates good/fair competence relative to the criterion. The response is characterized by adequate approaches, with strengths, significant weaknesses and, possibly, one or more deficiencies. Overall, there is cause for contract performance concern. The proposal indicates a satisfactory/marginal probability that the Government's goals and objectives will be met. The proposal demonstrates poor competence relative to the criterion and significant technical risk. There are one or more deficiencies and/or significant weaknesses. The proposal indicates there is minimal probability that the Government's goals and objectives will be met.

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

Very Good

Good/Fair

Poor

119 | P a g e

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002
Ratings Definitions: Corporate Experience STANDARD Very Relevant MEANING The offeror's corporate experience collectively involved essentially the same scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires. Performance was within 3 years of due date of initial proposal. The offeror's corporate experience collectively involved similar scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires. Performance was within 3 years of the due date of the initial proposal. The offeror's corporate experience collectively involved some of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires or performance occurred more than 3 to 5 years prior to the due date of initial proposal. The offeror's corporate experience collectively involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires or performance occurred more than 5years prior to the due date of initial proposal. Ratings Definitions: Past Performance STANDARD Low Risk MEANING The offeror's past performance record collectively demonstrates that the contractor consistently provides quality service and delivers benefits to the Government. The offeror's past performance record has beneficial findings that materially outweigh the adverse findings; the offeror's past performance record does not contain any decisively adverse findings. The offeror's past performance record collectively demonstrates the contractor's ability to perform its work at an acceptable level against contractual expectations. The offeror's overall past performance record may contain beneficial, adverse or decisively adverse findings but the overall assessment of all findings demonstrates an expected satisfactory level of performance. (Neutral Rating for offerors who do not have past performance history) The offeror's past performance record collectively demonstrates a contractor that regularly performs at an unacceptable level and/or demonstrates a clear expectation that similar high risk issues may be expected through the collective review of all findings.

Relevant

Somewhat Relevant

Not Relevant

Moderate Risk

High Risk

120 | P a g e

M.5

DESCRIPTION OF TECHNICAL EVALUATION CRITERIA

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

1. Eligibility Support Technical Capability CMS will evaluate the offeror on the extent to which its approach and methodology demonstrate ability to perform eligibility support services nationwide as described in the Statement of Work and within this RFP. CMS will evaluate the offeror's proposed approach to eligibility support operations, including, but not limited to: a. Mail intake and processing ­ management of a large, complex incoming mail operation to ensure various types of mail are triaged, translated, imaged, routed, managed, and destroyed through a records management process given the assumptions provided with this RFP. The offeror will be evaluated on its proposed approach to handle a variety of inquiries from various sources and initiate and generate prescribed and ad hoc notice responses. b. Application processing and document review ­ reviewing data contained in various documents while utilizing a data processing/workflow system, to ensure processing is done in an accurate, secure, consistent, and timely manner while obviating the potential for human error. CMS will evaluate the offeror's proposed approach to provide assistance and services for a variety of stakeholders (e.g., states, enrollees, employers, and employees), resulting in the systematic and successful mass processing of forms and/or applications to support business or program level objectives. c. Complex issue resolution ­ timely identification, analysis, and resolution of complex eligibility and enrollment issues affecting entities. d. Safeguarding of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) data in a secured environment ­ ensuring the creation, collection, access, use, destruction, and disclosure of PII data is performed with adherence to Federal Government and CMS rules, regulations, mandates, and guidelines (including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) in a secured, auditable environment. e. Training of personnel ­ development and delivery of training. CMS will evaluate the offeror's proposed approach to train large numbers of personnel during startup of a new operation in short time-frames, including providing on-going and refresher training to a fluid, geographically distributed work force. f. Maintenance of Standard Operating Procedures ­ planning, developing, implementing, and improving ongoing iterations of SOPs.

121 | P a g e

2. Program Management

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

The offeror's program management approach will be evaluated to determine the extent to which it: a. Provides a comprehensive, sound, and reasonable approach to accomplishing and managing the tasks described in the Statement of Work. b. Demonstrates ability to use and implement current industry best practices in conjunction with innovative efforts to support eligibility-related tasks and functions. c. Demonstrates ability to accommodate new technologies or pilots as required. d. Demonstrates knowledge of and experience with producing a well-trained and skilled workforce that has the ability to respond appropriately and effectively in a fast-paced environment with constantly evolving policy while reducing human error. e. Provides a realistic approach for increasing and reducing staff in all functional areas for eligibility support work to manage significant variations in monthly volumes during the open enrollment period and lull periods. The offeror will be evaluated on its understanding of staffing and work force management and the reasonableness and soundness of its work force management approach. f. Demonstrates a quality assurance program that ensures accurate and consistent management and monitoring of eligibility support operations, the ability to adapt to changes, and continuous improvement throughout the contract period. CMS will evaluate the offeror's ability to institute quality control measures and/or process improvement initiatives that reduce human error and contribute to the overall accuracy and efficiency of forms processing operations. g. Demonstrates ability to identify, plan, and mitigate risk related to eligibility tasks and functions described in the Statement of Work. h. Proposes qualified key personnel that provide value to the program. In accordance with Section L of this RFP, key personnel include: 1) Program Director 2) Project Manager 3) Regional Manager(s) The Government will evaluate the relative qualifications of proposed key personnel based on the relevancy, depth, and breadth of their experience specific to managing an operation similar to the size and scope of the outlined requirements described in this contract. Key personnel should demonstrate sufficient education, as well as
122 | P a g e

professional background, general, and industry-specific professional accomplishments. i. Demonstrates ability to provide business continuity and disaster recovery planning. The offeror will be evaluated on how well its approach ensures business continuity and mitigates unforeseen or unplanned incidents.

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

3. Corporate Experience The offeror will be evaluated on relevant experiences within the past three (3) years as evidenced by the following: a. Experience successfully operating a document processing operation of similar size and scope to that which is described in the Statement of Work and this RFP. In evaluating this experience, CMS will consider the volume of the paper intake and electronic submissions, the variety and complexity of the submitted forms and documents, the handling of complex issues, and the successful use of information technology. b. Experience with communicating and coordinating simultaneously with at least two (2) entities (one of which must include a federal, state, or local entity) to accomplish program objectives on a nationwide scale. c. Experience adhering to security standards and Government records management procedures, and remediating security vulnerabilities. d. Experience with eligibility and enrollment policy and operations, including public benefit programs and private health insurance products, and/or activities that are similar from a subject matter or operational perspective. e. Experience designing and implementing training programs for staff. f. Experience adjusting capacity quickly for increases and decreases in workload. 4. Past Performance The Government will evaluate the quality of the offeror's past performance within the last three (3) years in directly related work of similar scope and complexity of work described in the Statement of Work. If the Government determines that the work is irrelevant, the past performance will not be considered. This evaluation is separate and distinct from the Contracting Officer's responsibility determination. Past performance of significant and/or critical subcontractors will be considered to the extent warranted by the subcontractor's involvement in the proposed effort. The Government will consider the following areas of performance when evaluating the degree of performance risk:
123 | P a g e

a) Quality of Product or Service ­ (e.g., compliance with contract requirements, accuracy of reports, technical excellence/appropriateness of personnel, performance against performance metrics) b) Timeliness of Performance ­ (e.g., met interim milestones, reliable, responsive to technical direction, met all delivery schedules on time) c) Cost Control ­ (e.g. within budget, current, accurate and complete billings, relationship of negotiated costs to actuals, cost efficiencies) d) Business Relations ­ (e.g., prompt notification of problem, reasonable, cooperative, flexible, proactive, responsive to contract requirements, recommended solutions) e) Customer Satisfaction ­ (e.g., interface with end user of product or service.) Offerors with no record of past performance will receive neither an unfavorable nor favorable rating. NOTE: While the offeror's lack of performance history would result in a neutral past performance rating, a neutral score could be considered less favorable than a favorable past performance rating. The Government reserves the right to obtain information for use in the evaluation of past performance from any and all sources including sources outside of the Government. The Government may also consider, for example, award or incentive fee evaluations; information from the references listed in the proposal under past performance, pass/fail and corporate experience; other customers known to the Government; the federal government's Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS); and others who may have useful and relevant information. If no organizational past performance history exists, CMS will consider references for significant or critical subcontractors, key personnel, and, in the case of a joint venture, constituent companies. Past performance questionnaire references will be considered "adverse" if a rating of "0" or "1" is received and neutral if a rating of "2" is received. Material comments in the past performance questionnaire references may cause evaluators to deviate from these general principles.

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

124 | P a g e

M.6

EVALUATION OF ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

1. Organizational Conflict Of Interest Failure to submit the required Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI) Certificate may result in the offeror being determined non-responsive to the solicitation requirements and therefore, ineligible for award. The OCI Certificates will be reviewed in accordance with contract Section H.10 and Section L.17 of this solicitation and FAR Part 9. Important: Offerors that meet the OCI exclusion listed in Section H.10.c.2.(e) and L.17.c. are ineligible for award under this request for proposal. 2. Evaluation of Attestations CMS may use Attestations to assist in determining whether the offeror is responsible under FAR 9.1. If an offeror does not submit its Compliance Program Attestation in accordance with the solicitation, the proposal may be deemed nonresponsive to the solicitation requirements and therefore, ineligible for award. If CMS discovers that an offeror has submitted false Attestations, the Contracting Officer will make a determination that the offeror has an unsatisfactory record of integrity and business ethics and the proposal will be removed from award consideration. M.7 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS (SDB) PARTICIPATION

SDB participation will not be scored, but the Government's conclusions about overall commitment and realism of the offeror's SDB Participation targets will be used in determining the relative merits of the offeror's proposal and in selecting the offeror whose proposal is considered to offer the best value to the Government. The extent of the offeror's Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Targets will be evaluated before determination of the competitive range if one is established. Evaluation of SDB participation will be assessed based on consideration of the information presented in the offeror's proposal. The Government is seeking to determine whether the offeror has demonstrated a commitment to use SDB concerns for the work that it intends to perform. The realism of the offers proposed targets will be evaluated based on the following factors: (a) Extent to which SDB concerns are specifically identified (Note: Small Disadvantaged Business Concern is defined at FAR 2.101)
125 | P a g e

(b) Extent of commitment to use SDB concerns (e.g. Are subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, teaming agreements, etc.) M.8 BUSINESS PROPOSAL EVALUATION

HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002

A limited review of the business proposal will be conducted for all offerors who pass the initial Pass/Fail screening. The limited review of the business proposal will include the following at a minimum: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Whether proposals were submitted in accordance with the instructions provided in Section L. A check for mathematical accuracy; however, offerors bear the risk of any errors in their submitted materials. A review of proposed assumptions to assure consistency with solicitation assumptions. A review of proposed costs against the Government Cost Estimate. If anomalies are detected, a more in-depth analysis of assumptions and other areas of the business proposal will be conducted.

A complete cost analysis and cost realism analysis will be accomplished after establishment of the competitive range or prior to award if awarded without discussions. An offeror that passes the pass/fail evaluation may be eliminated from the competition based upon the results of the evaluation of the written technical proposals and the limited review of the business proposals, prior to discussions or a full cost realism evaluation. The business proposal evaluation will consist of a cost analysis utilizing cost or pricing data or information other than cost or pricing data to determine the reasonableness of the proposed costs. Independent of the cost analysis, a cost realism analysis will also be performed. This process will consist of review and evaluation of specific elements of each offeror`s proposed cost estimate to determine whether the estimated proposed cost elements are realistic for the work to be performed, reflect a clear understanding of the requirements, and are consistent with the unique methods of performance and materials described in the offeror`s technical proposal, and to determine the probable cost of the offeror's performance. The cost analysis and cost realism analysis will be used to determine that the offeror`s proposed costs are fair, reasonable, and realistic for the work to be performed.

126 | P a g e

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop B3-30-03 Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850

Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

November 29, 2012 TO ALL OFFERORS: You are invited to submit a proposal in accordance with the requirements of the attached Request for Proposal (RFP) HHSM-500-2012-RFP-0002 entitled "Eligibility Support." Please review all requirements of the solicitation and submit one (1) original and ten (10) copies of the Technical, Business, and Organizational Conflict of Interest proposal volumes. Please also submit one (1) CD-ROM with the original and each copy. Emailed proposals are not acceptable. Please see Section L.15 of the solicitation for specific delivery instructions. Potential offerors are advised to review all sections of the solicitation. In particular, the Government draws your attention to the following key sections of the document: Section C Section L Description/Specifications/Statement of Work Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors (including all relevant addresses for submission of written questions and proposals) Evaluation Factors for Award

Section M

Your proposal must be received no later than 2:00 p.m. local prevailing time on January 10, 2013. Proposals received after the above specified date and time will be handled in accordance with FAR 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors­Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004). Offerors are instructed to complete Sections 14-18 of the SF-33 provided with this solicitation and submit it with their proposals. Please note that each offeror must provide its name and complete address, including street, city, county, state, ZIP code and the Taxpayer's Identification Number (TIN) applicable to that name and address. Please note that this requirement is subject to the Service Contract Act. Therefore, offerors should obtain wage determinations for their applicable places of performance from Wage Determinations OnLine at https://www.wdol.gov. See Section I.9 of the solicitation for further details. Questions concerning the solicitation shall be submitted no later than 2:00 p.m. local prevailing time on December 14, 2012. Interested parties should submit questions via email to CCIIO_Eligibility_Support@cms.hhs.gov. See Section L of the solicitation for further details.

The solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditures of public funds in connection with the proposed procurement. NOTE: This procurement is currently subject to the availability of funds. If it is your intent to submit a proposal, please complete and submit the RFP Attachment J-7, Proposal Intent Response Form, no later than 2:00 p.m. local prevailing time on December 14, 2012. You may email this form to Christina Eberhart, Contract Specialist, at CCIIO_Eligibility_Support@cms.hhs.gov. This is requested for CMS planning purposes only and is not binding. Failure to submit a Proposal Intent Response Form does not preclude an offeror from submitting a proposal. Requests for information concerning this solicitation shall be referred to Christina Eberhart at CCIIO_Eligibility_Support@cms.hhs.gov. Sincerely, /S/ Mark Smolenski Contracting Officer Enclosures: 1) SF-33 2) Solicitation and Attachments

2

