IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL CORRECT CODING INITIATIVE IN MEDICAID



STATEMENT OF 





I.  SCOPE



The contractor shall be responsible for providing technical support to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) in the implementation of the National Correct Coding Initiative (NCCI) in the Medicaid program.  Specifically, the contractor shall be responsible for assisting the Center for Medicaid, CHIP, and Survey & Certification (CMCS) and the States in meeting the requirements of section 6507 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA).





A.  Background



Section 6507 of the PPACA required by September 1, 2010, that CMS:  1) identify those methodologies of the National Correct Coding Initiative (NCCI) which are compatible to claims filed under Title XIX to promote correct coding and to control improper coding leading to inappropriate payments; 2) identify those methodologies that should be incorporated into claims filed under Title XIX for which no correct coding methodologies have been established with respect to Title XVIII; and 3) notify States of the methodologies identified and the process by which States are to incorporate such methodologies for claims filed on or after October 1, 2010.  States are required to process Medicaid claims using the NCCI methodologies effective for claims filed on or after October 1, 2010.  Not later than March 1, 2011, CMS is required to submit a Report to Congress describing the notice to States and an analysis of the methodologies identified above.





B.  Purpose



The purpose of this contract is to enable CMCS and the States to meet the requirements contained in section 6507 of the PPACA.



The contractor shall provide the necessary personnel, equipment, materials, support / maintenance, supplies and services (unless Government-supplied data, equipment, or supplies are indicated) to accomplish the objectives.



The expected outcome for this contract is that the requirements contained in section 6507 of the PPACA are met.





II.  REQUIREMENTS


Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the contractor shall furnish all of the necessary services, qualified personnel, materials, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the requirements of the SOW. 



A.  General



The contractor shall ensure that all the work performed under the contract is in accordance with requirements identified herein. 



The contractor shall accomplish the objectives of the by performing the tasks listed below.



Task 1:  Kickoff Meeting (if necessary)



The contractor shall participate in a kickoff meeting with CMS at CMS’s Baltimore, MD, Central Office location within five calendar days after award of the contract.  The contractor and the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) shall mutually determine the time and date of this conference.



The contractor shall develop and deliver a presentation at the kickoff meeting that includes the following:



- introduction of key personnel;



- an overview of the technical approach;



- a description of the Transition Plan;



- a description of the Project Management Plan (PMP); and



- other topics as directed by CMS.





Task 2:  Transition Plan (if necessary)



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS a plan that, at a minimum, specifically details the steps (with dates) illustrating how all the CCI functions outlined in this contract shall be transitioned to the contractor.  The plan shall include all the necessary information broken out by project phases (i.e., preparation, transfer, and fully operational) and workload.





Task 3:  Project Management Plan



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS a detailed Project Management Plan (PMP) for each year of the performance period.  The initial PMP is due at the kickoff meeting.  The first revised PMP is due five business days after the kickoff meeting.  The contactor shall update the PMP monthly thereafter.



The project plan shall cover each task of the requirements for this contract and shall highlight each step of implementation of this contract.  The project plan shall include, at a minimum the following information:



- each Task and its implementation;



- staff and hours expected for completion of each Task and / or delivery date and timetable;



- allocation and management of resources;



- project organization;



- key milestones signifying successful completion of each Task;



- periodic internal assessment / progress reports planned; and



- description on how the contractor intends to use medical specialty societies, State Medicaid Directors, State Medicaid Medical Directors, and others in an advisory capacity with regard to proposed edits.





Task 4:  Weekly Progress Reports



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS each week a progress report for CMCS.  The report shall be submitted electronically via email attachment on the Friday of each week.  The reports shall include, at a minimum:



- the report number;



- the due date of the report;



- the date the report was submitted;



- the week covered by the report;



- the scope of the work;



- weekly activities and accomplishments for both projected tasks and actual tasks performed;



- preparation of materials for comments requiring discussion with CMS staff, as directed by CMS; and



- constraints preventing the accomplishment or timely completion of any of the tasks.





Task 5:  Final Report



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS a final report.  At a minimum, the report shall include a summary of the activities and lessons learned.





Task 6:  Report to Congress



Section 6507 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-148), as amended by the Health Care and Education Recovery Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-152), requires CMS to submit a report to Congress on implementation of the NCCI in Medicaid by March 1, 2011.  The report must describe the CMS notice to States on September 1, 2010, on this implementation (State Medicaid Director Letter SMD #10-017, ACA #7) and include an analysis of the implementation of the NCCI in Medicaid.



The contractor shall:



- develop the Report to Congress;



- include in the Report a description of the process for CMS notifying the States by September 1, 2010;



- provide, and incorporate into the Report, an analysis of the Medicaid NCCI methodologies;



- provide, and incorporate into the Report, an analysis of the Advance Planning Documents (APDs) submitted by States to CMS on implementation of the NCCI into their Medicaid programs;



- analyze, and incorporate into the Report, information reported by States on implementation of the NCCI in their Medicaid programs and on the impact that implementation of the NCCI has had on their Medicaid programs, including analyses of savings achieved and claims denied due to NCCI edits and MUEs;



- analyze, and incorporate into the Report, the edits deactivated by States, including the number of States deactivating edits and the types of edits deactivated;



- provide briefing materials, talking points, lessons learned, and any other information requested by CMS that is important to discuss;



- submit to CMS in Word Version 2007 a draft of the Report no later than February 1, 2011;



- incorporate comments from CMS into the draft Report and finalize Report by February 7, 2011; and



- provide any other information deemed necessary by CMS for the purpose of this Report to Congress.





Task 7:  CMS Medicaid NCCI Workgroup



The contractor shall identify and research issues for, and provide support, assistance, and agendas to, the CMS Medicaid NCCI Workgroup concerning the Medicaid NCCI methodologies.  This shall include how issues and changes in the Medicare NCCI methodologies may affect the Medicaid NCCI methodologies and vice versa.





Task 8:  Work with State Medicaid Programs



The contractor shall participate with CMCS and States as a group in conference calls and meetings concerning the Medicaid NCCI methodologies, the process by which claims will incorporate these methodologies, and any other pertinent information deemed necessary by CMCS.



The contractor shall work with CMCS and States as a group to discuss, vet, and resolve technical issues that pertain to the implementation and utilization of the NCCI methodologies in State Medicaid programs that are common among many States at the national level.



The contractor shall provide guidance to CMCS and to the States as a group about the Medicaid NCCI methodologies, including file characteristics and claims processing rule requirements, so that State Medicaid claims processing systems can be programmed to receive the Medicaid NCCI methodologies files and process claims correctly.



The contractor shall work with CMCS to develop policy guidance documents on the Medicaid NCCI methodologies, as needed.  This guidance may include a Federal regulation, another State Medicaid Director letter, and / or alternatives, as designated by CMCS.  Specifically, the contractor shall work with CMCS to provide information in narrative form in a document compatible with Word 2007, which may include background on the NCCI, the Medicaid NCCI methodologies, the processes by which State Medicaid claims processing systems can incorporate these methodologies, and any other pertinent information deemed necessary by CMCS.



The contractor shall provide, contribute to, and participate in education, training, and technical assistance to all States as a group and / or with groups of States in various formats, such as conference calls and webinars.



The contractor will work with State Medicaid Directors, State Medicaid Medical Directors, State Medicaid contractors, and CMS to update NCCI edits and MUEs on a regular, continuous basis.



The contractor shall obtain and respond to feedback received directly, and through CMS, from State Medicaid Directors and State Medicaid Medical Directors identifying issues impacting the implementation of NCCI edits and MUEs and updates to the edits.  The contractor must issue letters to State Medicaid Directors and State Medicaid Medical Directors requesting input about how the Medicaid NCCI / MUE files should differ from Medicare NCCI / MUE files based on variations in individual State laws and administrative rules.  The contractor shall analyze and utilize recommendations from State Medicaid Directors and State Medicaid Medical Directors on improvements to the NCCI edits and / or MUEs applicable to State Medicaid Programs and changes to edits based on variations in individual State laws and administrative rules, when and where appropriate, as determined by CMS.





Task 9:  Analysis of, and Reports on, Advance Planning Documents (APDs) Submitted by States on Implementation of the NCCI in State Medicaid Programs



The contractor shall summarize, analyze, and report on Advance Planning Documents (APDs) submitted by States on implementation of the NCCI in State Medicaid Programs.  The purposes of the analyses are to:



- describe how States are implementing the NCCI in their Medicaid programs and



- identify:

- problems, issues, and their sources in implementation;

- patterns in implementation;

- possible changes in the Medicaid NCCI methodologies (e.g., edits); and

- State needs for technical assistance in implementing the NCCI in their Medicaid programs.



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS on a weekly basis a report on its findings.





Task 10:  Analyses of, and Guidance Documents on, Medicaid NCCI Policy Issues



The contractor shall analyze policy issues concerning the Medicaid NCCI methodologies.  The policy issues that the contractor will analyze will include the deactivation of Medicaid NCCI edits and MUEs by State Medicaid programs, the nature of the appeals process in the Medicaid NCCI methodologies to be implemented by State Medicaid programs, and other policy issues designated by CMS.





Task 11:  Communications



The contractor shall review issues identified in correspondence received from physicians, specialty societies, contractors, etc., and make recommendations pertaining to these issues and provide responses to telephone, email, U.S. Mail inquiries, and all other correspondence.  Documentation includes copies of incoming correspondence and the contractor's response shall be provided as needed.  The contractor shall respond to correspondence and telephone calls related to the NCCI as needed.  The contractor shall retain copies and logs of all incoming and outgoing correspondence (emails, U.S. Mail, telephone, etc.), but will not need to send a copy to CMS.  These documents will be filed / stored at the contractor’s place of business, and if there is a need for CMS to request any of these documents, the contractor shall provide the requested documents to CMS, within 48 hours, preferably by U.S. mail (unless otherwise stated).





Task 12:  Medicaid NCCI Methodologies



The contractor shall:



- identify those methodologies of the NCCI which are compatible to claims filed under Title XIX to promote correct coding and to control improper coding leading to inappropriate payments;



- assist CMS in the analysis and feasibility of the development of the NCCI methodologies for Medicaid, including for types and sites of services covered by Medicaid that are not covered by Medicare; and



- develop in cooperation with CMS “Standard National Medicaid NCCI Methodology” (NMNCCI) files.  This may include modifying Medicare edit files for the NCCI methodologies to be compatible with Medicaid programs.





Task 13:  Electronic Correct Coding (Procedure-to-Procedure) Edits and Electronic Medically Unlikely (Units-of-Service) Edits



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS for the second calendar quarter of 2011 an electronic version that shall include all of the Correct Coding Edits that are appropriate for, and compatible with, Medicaid, correspondence reference for each edit, the narrative policy statement, the modifier indicator and the effective date for implementation and where appropriate the deletion date.  For the quarterly release, there shall be a test file version referred to as the sequential data set and due no later than 20 days prior to the effective date, and a final file due no later than 15 days prior to the effective date, with a possibility of one or more final file to include corrections and / or additions deemed to be necessary for immediate implementation.



The electronic version for the second calendar quarter of 2011 shall include all of the Medically Unlikely Edits that are appropriate for, and compatible with, Medicaid with all new, revised, and deleted edits. Each electronic file shall include the units of service along with the corresponding procedure code, the correspondence reference for each edit, the implementation date, and the deletion date.  For the quarterly release, there shall be an electronic test file version referred to as the sequential data set and due no later than 20 days prior to the effective date, and an electronic final file version due no later than 15 days prior to the effective date, with a possibility of one or more electronic final file(s) to include corrections and / or additions deemed to be necessary for immediate implementation. 



The Medicaid NCCI files shall be synchronous with the Medicare NCCI files.



The contractor shall prepare and submit to CMS the Medicaid NCCI files in three formats:  ASCII.TXT, Excel 2007 (.xlsx), and tab-delimited text (.txt) with column headings.





Task 14:  Quarterly Update



The contractor shall:



- work with CMS to update edits for the second calendar quarter of 2011 and to ensure that State Medicaid programs and claims contractors can utilize these quarterly Medicaid NCCI edits and MUEs;



- develop, maintain, and deliver to CMS for the second calendar quarter of 2011 edit files for each of the Medicaid NCCI methodologies in three file formats:  ASCII.TXT, Excel 2007 (.xlsx), and tab-delimited text (.txt) with column headings;



- deliver an electronic test file version of the Medicaid NCCI methodologies, referred to as the sequential data set, no later than 20 days prior to the effective date, i.e., April 1, 2011, and an electronic final file version due no later than 15 days prior to the effective date, with a possibility of one or more electronic final file(s) to include corrections and / or additions deemed to be necessary for immediate implementation;



- make available the NCCI methodology files for each of the NCCI methodologies for State Medicaid programs to download into their Medicaid Management Information Systems (MMISs) for processing Medicaid claims;



- define the rules that must be applied for processing Medicaid claims;



- establish rules for Medicaid programming logic to adjudicate claims; and



- provide revisions and updates, as needed, to the documents on the CMS Medicaid NCCI website (), including the following documents:



“Nature and Structure of Medicaid’s NCCI”

“Overview”

“Frequently Asked Questions”

“NCCI File Names and Formats, Algorithms for Processing Claims, and Characteristics of Edits”

“Medicaid NCCI Coding Policy Manual”

“COTS Software”

“NCCI Appeals”

“Medicaid Correspondence Language Manual”

“CLEID”

“Medicare Modifier 59 Article”

“NCCI and MUE Edits”.





B.	REPORTING REQUIREMENTS



All written documents for this project shall be delivered to the COTR in an electronic version (see the deliverable schedule in Appendix A) via email.  The COTR may request hard copies as necessary.  All electronic files shall be submitted in a format that is compatible with Microsoft Office 2007.  This is subject to change, and the contractor shall be prepared to submit deliverables in any new CMS standard.



The COTR shall provide the contractor with comments on reports within two (2) weeks of receipt.  If no response is received within two (2) weeks for draft reports, the contractor shall assume that the draft report is approved for development of final reporting.  If no response is received within two (2) weeks for final reports, the contractor shall assume the report is approved.





1.  Transition Plan (if necessary)



The contractor shall deliver to CMS at the Kickoff Meeting the Transition Plan described in Task 2.





2.  Project Management Plan



The contractor shall deliver to CMS:



- the initial Project Management Plan (PMP) described in Task 3 at the Kickoff Meeting;



- the first revised PMP five business days after the Kickoff Meeting; and



- revisions and updates of the PMP monthly thereafter.





3.  Weekly Progress Reports



The contractor shall deliver to CMS each month a weekly progress report for the Medicaid NCCI program as described in Task 4.





4.  Final Report



The contractor shall deliver to CMS a final report for the Medicaid NCCI program as described in Task 5.





5.  Report to Congress



The contractor shall deliver to CMS a draft Report to Congress by February 1, 2011, and a final Report to Congress by February 7, 2011, as described in Task 6.





6.  CMS Medicaid NCCI Workgroup



The contractor shall submit in a timely manner deliverables requested by the CMS Medicaid NCCI Workgroup, as described in Task 7, by the dates requested by the Workgroup.





7.  Work with State Medicaid Programs



The contractor shall deliver in a timely manner the products requested by CMS in its work with State Medicaid programs as described in Task 8.





8.  Weekly APD Report



The contractor shall deliver to CMS each month a report on the findings of its analyses of Advance Planning Documents (APDs) submitted by States on implementation of the NCCI in their Medicaid programs, as described in Task 9.





9.  Analyses of, and Guidance Documents on, Medicaid NCCI Policy Issues



The contractor shall provide to CMS analyses of, and guidance documents on, Medicaid NCCI policy issues, as requested by CMS, as described in Task 10.





10.  Communications



The contractor shall provide to CMS in a timely manner summaries and / or copies of communications, as described in Task 11.





11.  Medicaid NCCI Methodologies



The contractor shall provide to CMS analyses of, and guidance documents on, Medicaid NCCI methodologies, as requested by CMS, as described in Task 12.





12.  Electronic Correct Coding (Procedure-to-Procedure) Edits and Electronic Medically Unlikely (Units-of-Service) Edits



The contractor shall provide to CMS the edits described in Task 13 and according to the schedule described in Task 13.





13.  Quarterly Update



The contractor shall provide to CMS the updates for the second calendar quarter of 2011 described in Task 14 and according to the schedule described in Task 14.







C.   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance for this contract is 90 business days from the date of award.





D.   PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS



The contractor shall provide the following Key Personnel for this contract (Key Personnel are not required to be full-time positions):



Medical Director / Physician 

Lead Coding Specialist (RHIA, RHIT, CCS-P, or CPC minimum)

Information Systems Specialist

Medicaid Specialist



Key personnel shall possess the following experience related to the work being performed:



Medical Director / Physician



(1)  experience in interpreting HCPCS /  codes and coding conventions;

(2)  experience in working with national medical specialty societies;

(3)  experience in working with Medicaid claims processing systems;

(4)  experience in interpreting ICD-9-CM codes and narrative, and linking ICD-9-CM codes to procedure codes for medical necessity; and

(5)  experience working with Medicaid payment policies.



Lead Coding Specialist



(1)  experience in interpreting HCPCS /  codes and coding conventions;

(2)  experience in performing and interpreting computer analysis of Medicaid claims;

(3)  experience in working with Medicaid claims processing systems;

(4)  current certification of RHIT, RHIA,  or ;

(5)  experience in interpreting/coding ICD-9-CM codes and narrative, and linking ICD-9-CM codes to procedure codes for medical necessity; and

(6)  experience working with Medicaid payment policies.



Information Systems Specialist:



(1)  experience in preparing and verifying files for editing health care claims and



(2)  experience in detection, reporting, analysis, and correction of software problems and deficiencies.



Medicaid Specialist



(1)  experience in Federal Medicaid payment policies.





III.  QUALITY ASSURANCE



CMS and the contractor shall jointly agree on the Quality Assurance testing requirements for this contract.  These requirements will be incorporated into the contract by modification.



A.  Special Considerations:  The contractor shall not enter into contractual arrangements pertaining to the National Correct Coding Initiative during the period of performance of this contract with any corporation external to the Government.  The Contractor shall be bound by the confidentiality restrictions associated with the AMA's CPT codes, as well as the Conflict of Interest requirements of this contract.  The contractor shall not release to any entity not directly involved in this contract, the code or modifier numbers or descriptors of any CPT code not already published by the AMA or by CMS in the Federal Register.



B.  Conflict of Interest:  In an effort to safeguard the government and protect the integrity

of this effort, the contractor shall not include as part of an employee-incentive or evaluation program (e.g., salary rates, salary increases, bonuses and/or monetary or non-monetary awards) any of the following measures, whether based on individual employee's performance or on the performance of the contractor on this contract as a whole:

Amount of savings captured from CCI / MUE;

Number of CCI / MUE edits; or

Return on investment.



C.  Additional Quality Assurance:  The following quality assurance monitoring and performance indicators are applicable:



C.1  Cooperation / Coordination:  (Level of interaction between the contractor and appropriate stakeholder(s)):  The contractor shall be required to cooperate and coordinate with stakeholders other than CMS, such as with State Medicaid Directors, State Medicaid Medical Directors, State Medicaid fiscal agents, State Medicaid program integrity and information technology specialists, providers, and other entities as appropriate.  Some examples of how CMS shall evaluate contractor performance include the following:

	  	Demonstration of ongoing dialogue or meetings with the appropriate and necessary parties;

		Feedback from other entities with which the contractor has worked with; and

Number and type of issues that arise which indicate communication, or a lack of communication, between appropriate entities and the contractor.



C.2  Quality:  (Appropriateness, completeness and error free nature of all activities conducted by the contractor):  The contractor shall maintain the highest degree of quality for all activities performed throughout the period of performance of this contract.  Some examples of how quality shall be evaluated include the following:



		Completeness and accuracy of deliverables.



C.3  Innovation:  (Creative approaches identified and / or used to protect the fiscal integrity of the Medicaid program)  Some examples of how the contractor shall be evaluated include the following:



Review of the processes that the contractor implements and utilizes to carry out the effective and efficient performance of this contract and

Assessment of the outcomes that the contractor achieves in relation to all government priorities.



C.4  Timeliness:  (Ability to meet established time lines):  This contract is particularly time sensitive.  The contractor shall submit all deliverables to CMS so that they are received on or before the due dates specified.  Some examples of how the contractor performance shall be evaluated include the following:



Demonstration that the contractor performed tasks in accordance with the schedule set forth in this contract.

The time frame under which reports were completed.



C.5  Value Added:  (Ability of the contractor to illustrate in a deliverable how its performance adds value to the Medicaid program):  An example of how contractor performance shall be evaluated includes the following:



		CMS adopts the contractor's approaches used in the performance of this contract.



C.6  Satisfaction:  (Ability of the contractor to meet and manage customer expectations):  The contractor shall provide at a minimum professional and courteous service to the different entities involved with this contract.  Some examples of how the contractor performance shall be evaluated include the following:

		Feedback from contractor to CMS;

		Feedback from State Medicaid agencies and contractors;

		Feedback from the National Medicaid EDI Health Care Workgroup (NMEH);

		Feedback from affected providers and provider groups;

		Feedback from CMS Regional Offices (ROs); and

		Feedback from CMS Central Office (CO).



C.7  Integrity:  (Ability of the contractor to uphold the highest standards of professional integrity and act in the best interest of the Medicaid program)  The contractor or any Sub-Contractors, shall not engage in fraud and abuse or be found to have non-disclosed conflicts of interest while work is performed on this contract or other government contracts.  Some examples of how the contractor performance shall be evaluated include the following:



Demonstration that the contractor continuously maintained professionalism and honesty in its business activities.

		Demonstration that all activities were carried out in a legal and ethical manner.



The COTR shall use the performance indicators above in evaluating contractor performance and the acceptance of contractor deliverables as appropriate.  The following criteria shall be used to indicate the measure of acceptance:



		Excellent:  Significantly exceeds requirements.

		Good:  Exceeds requirements.

		Acceptable:  Fully meets requirements.

		Poor:  Requires modification to meet requirements. 

		Unacceptable:  Does not meet requirements.





IV.  COMPLIANCE WITH ALL FEDERAL REGULATIONS



The contractor shall comply with all Federal regulations related to procurement and will comply with HHS / CMS Standards, policies and procedures, i.e., section 508 standards for all electronic and written materials including presentations, Word documents, regulations, etc.



All deliverables must be compliant with the requirements of section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act listed below:



SECTION 508 - ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  



(a)  This task order is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220).  Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without  disabilities.



(b)  The EIT accessibility standards at 36 CFR Part 1194 were developed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance  Board ("Access Board") and apply to contracts and task / delivery orders, awarded under indefinite quantity contracts on or after  June 25, 2001.



(c)  Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194), as specified in the contract, as a minimum.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing.  The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing.  If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following recourses:



1.  Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase or line item without termination liabilities; or 



2.  In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed by a contractor for the Government, the Government shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm for the noncompliant EIT, with the contractor liable for reimbursement to the Government for any expenses incurred thereby.



(a)  The contractor must ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant with the accessibility standards are provided pursuant to extensive market research and are the most current compliant products or services available to satisfy the contract requirements.



(b)  For every EIT product or service accepted under this contact by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either a contract specified refresh cycle for the product or service, or on a contract effective option / renewal date; whichever shall occur first.



Section 508 Compliance for Communications



The contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below.  In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and this SOW, PWS, or TO, the SOW, PWS, or TO shall take precedence.



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508 Accessibility Standards



1.  29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)



2.  36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)



3.   standards)



4.  FAR 39.2 (Section 508)



5.  CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)



In addition, all contract deliverables are subject to these 508 standards as applicable.



Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced, including text, audio, or video, must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow Federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities.  All contractors (including subcontractors) or consultants responsible for preparing or posting content must comply with applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents above.  Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the SOW, PWS, or TO, shall be the responsibility of the contractor or consultant.



The following Section 508 provisions apply to the content or communications material identified in this SOW, PWS, or TO:

36 CFR Part 1194.21 a - l 

36 CFR Part 1194.22 a - p

36 CFR Part 1194.31 a - f

36 CFR Part 1194.41 a – c



The contractor shall provide a completed Section 508 Product Assessment Template and the contractor shall state exactly how proposed EIT deliverable(s) meet or does not meet the applicable standards.



The following Section 508 provisions apply for software development material identified in this SOW, PWS, or TO:



For software development, the Contractor / Developer / Vendor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards



(1)  29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)



(2)  36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	       36 CFR Part 1194.21 (a – l)

   	       36 CFR Part 1194.31 (a – f)

  	       36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)



(3)   (508 Standards)



(4)  FAR 39.2 (Section 508)



(5)  CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	       a.  Information Technology – General Information

      	       ()



For web-based applications, the Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:



Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards



(1)  29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)



(2)  36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	       36 CFR Part 1194.22 (a – p)

   	       36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)



(3)   (508 Standards)



(4)  FAR 39.2 (Section 508)



(5)  CMS / HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	       a.  Information Technology – General Information

       	            ()





V.  PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance for this contract is 90 business days from the date of award.





Appendices to this SOW



Appendix A - Deliverable Schedule (attached)



Documents and files for implementation of the NCCI in the Medicaid program can be found through the CMS Medicaid NCCI webpage, .


Attachment A



ITEMS TO BE FURNISHED  DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE



The Contractor shall submit all required reports and deliverables in accordance with the following schedule.  Reports and / or deliverables submitted under this contract shall be in accordance with the Statement of Work entitled Implementation of the National Correct Coding Initiative in the Medicaid Program. 



IAW = In Accordance With

E = Electronic 

P = Paper








Recipient(s) Addresses:



Lucille Lee

Contracting Officer

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Division of Support Contracts / OAGM

Mailstop C2-21-15

7500 Security Boulevard



410-786-5447



Paul W. Youket

Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

CMCS / DSG / DSS

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Mail Stop:  S2-22-16





(410)-786-7528



Name

Task

Deliverable

Due

Kickoff Meeting (if necessary)

1



5 days after award

Transition Plan (if necessary)

2

1

kickoff meeting (KOM)

Project Management Plan

3

2

initial:  KOM

revised:  5 days after KOM

Weekly Progress Reports

4

3

Friday of each week

Final Report

5

4

end of contract

Report to Congress

6

5

draft:  2.1.11

final:  2.7.11

CMS Medicaid NCCI Workgroup

7

6

as requested by CMS

Work with State Medicaid Programs

8

7

as requested by CMS

Report on Advance Planning Documents (APDs)

9

8

weekly

Analyses & Guidance Documents on Medicaid NCCI Policy Issues

10

9

to be determined

Communications

11

10

timely reports

Medicaid NCCI Methodologies

12

11

as requested by CMS

Electronic Correct Coding (Procedure-to-Procedure) Edits and Electronic Medically Unlikely (Units-of-Service) Edits

13

12

test file:  3.10.11

final file:  3.15.11

Quarterly Update

14

13

test file:  3.10.11

final file:  3.15.11TECHNICAL EVALUATION CRITERIA





UNDERSTANDING OF, AND TECHNICAL APPROACH TO, THE STATEMENT OF WORK



The offeror shall demonstrate familiarity and experience with, knowledge of, technical skills for, and an effective and efficient technical approach to, the following at a minimum:



Implementation of the NCCI in the Medicaid program



Basic coding resource materials used to code and to assist in CCI / MUE



The difference in comprehensive / component, mutually exclusive, and medically unlikely edits   



Modifiers and how they function



NCCI indicators


Supporting documentation as it relates to supporting a claim or an inquiry on CPT / HCPCS codes



How will the offeror successfully maintain and enhance the Medicaid NCCI workload? 


How would offeror address Medicaid NCCI inquiries through email or letters (documentation and stock language)?


Establishing FAQs and other appropriate material for the Medicaid NCCI webpages


How would the offeror handle fire drills (providing information immediately)?





KEY PERSONNEL & STAFFING



The offeror should identify, and provide a brief profile of, key personnel and staff who would be performing this contact and the hours that would be provided by each individual.  The types of positions that will be needed for this contract include (but are not limited to):



- medical director / physician;

- lead coding specialist;

- information systems specialist; and

- Medicaid specialist.





PAST EXPERIENCE



The offeror shall demonstrate its experience working with:



- CMS, the Medicare and Medicaid programs at the Federal level;



- State Medicaid programs, including State Medicaid Directors and State Medicaid Medical Directors; and



- national health care organizations, such as the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, medical specialty societies, etc.





PAST PERFORMANCE



The contractor shall demonstrate that it has an acceptable past performance history.  This is not to be misconstrued as corporate experience.  This category should demonstrate “how well” the offeror has performed on previous work.



The offeror should provide in its proposal a list of recent contracts the offeror has had working with the Medicare and Medicaid programs and / or the NCCI methodologies.  The offeror should also provide the name and e-mail address of the COTR / PO for each contract listed.  These COTRs / POs will provide feedback on the performance of the offeror on these contracts.<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F7781230505TEC.DOC.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F7781230505TEC.DOC.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>