Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 1 of 96

Smithsonian Institution

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion Request for Proposals
Smithsonian Solicitation Number: F13SOL10001 Issue Date: October 3, 2012 Due Date: November 13, 2012 9:00 am local Washington DC time
Smithsonian Institution Office of Contracting PO Box 37012, MRC 1200 Washington, DC 20013-7012

Additional information may only be obtained by contacting: Chris Crane via email: cranec@si.edu

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 2 of 96

TABLE OF CONTENTS: Introduction Part I: SOLICITATION A. General Information B. Project Description C. Submission of Proposals D. Proposal Submission Requirements E. Evaluation Procedures F. Contract Award Part II: STATEMENT OF WORK Part III: PROPOSED CONTRACT A. Solicitation/Contract Form (SF-33) (to be inserted upon award) B. Supplies/ Services and Prices/Costs C. Statement of Work and Deliverables D. (Intentionally Omitted)

E. Inspection and Acceptance F. Deliveries or Performance G. Contract Administrative Data H. Special Contract Requirements I. Contract Clauses (Sections A and B) J. List of Attachments K. Representations, Certifications and Other Statement of Offerors

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 3 of 96

PART I ­ SOLICITATION GENERAL INFORMATION A. General Information 1. Through this Request for Proposals ("RFP"), the Smithsonian Institution ("Smithsonian") on behalf of its National Museum of American History ("NMAH") is seeking a firm to provide professional, technical, non-personal web design services ("Services") for the renovation and expansion of its Lemelson Center website ("Website"). The goal of the new website will be to consolidate, streamline and integrate existing sites, preferably using a site-wide database of available digital assets, and provide better access to information across the unified site while still creating features of interest to individual audiences. The successful redesigned Website will present a unified face to the public and make the most efficient use of information contained in the site and staff time dedicated to maintaining and growing the site. The purpose of this RFP is to provide all interested prospective offerors ("Offerors") with sufficient information to enable them to prepare and submit technical and business proposals (collectively, "Proposal(s)") for consideration by the Smithsonian. The information contained in the Proposals provided by Offerors will provide the basis for evaluation. This solicitation for services is a highly competitive process and to assure that Proposals are given full consideration, Offerors must adhere to the requirements set forth herein. All Proposals should reflect the Offeror's willingness and capability to provide professional services and a high quality product to the Smithsonian at a reasonable price. 2. Inquiries. All questions regarding this RFP should be directed solely to Chris Crane at cranec@si.edu. Offerors should not contact anyone else within the Smithsonian Institution regarding this RFP. Significant questions pertaining to this RFP will be entertained through October 11, 2012, 11:59 p.m. local Washington, DC time. All questions should reference specific sections of the solicitation including page number (s). All questions having an impact on the solicitation will be answered in writing and issued to all Offerors in the form of an amendment to this RFP. Strictly administrative questions will be entertained by phone, e-mail, or fax and may not be circulated to all Offerors. 3. The Smithsonian intends to award one (1) contract to the successful Offeror, but expressly reserves the right in its sole discretion to cancel this RFP; and/or to terminate negotiations at any time without cost to or liability to the Smithsonian. 4. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any and all Proposals received by this request, or to negotiate separately with any firm when such action shall be considered in the best interest of the Smithsonian. Notice is also hereby given of the possibility that an award may be made without discussion or after only limited negotiations. It is therefore emphasized that all Proposals should be submitted initially on the most favorable terms.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 4 of 96

5. Offerors will not be reimbursed for any expense(s) incurred in the preparation and submission of Proposals, including without limitation costs associated with providing samples. Participation in this RFP or any resulting contract constitutes an affirmative waiver by participants of any claim to bid or proposal preparation costs. This RFP does not commit the Smithsonian to procure or contract for any services or supplies, and it shall not be construed as authorization to proceed or to be reimbursed for any of the work specified herein. 6. Smithsonian shall own and hold all proprietary rights, including copyright, in this RFP, the selected proposal, and all materials and work product created or generated in the fulfillment of the successful Offeror's duties under the awarded contract. Any and all information, photographs, or materials submitted with Proposals from Offerors for consideration by Smithsonian will become the property of Smithsonian and shall not be returned. 7. RFP Disclaimer. This RFP is being used to solicit offers solely to provide the specific services and products set forth herein and the resultant contract ("Contract") shall be nonexclusive in nature. The Smithsonian may contract with any other individual or entity for similar services and products and makes no guarantees that the Offeror selected hereunder will be subsequently hired to work on any other project whether similar or dissimilar, nor shall anything in this RFP be construed to so obligate the Smithsonian. 8. A debriefing is an opportunity for you to understand how the Smithsonian Institution assessed the strengths and weaknesses of your Proposals. Requests for a debriefing must be in writing no later than three (3) calendar days after receiving notice of award. 9. Time of Essence. Offerors are hereby put on notice that time is of the essence in the performance of the Contract and that the successful Offeror shall guarantee Smithsonian's receipt of the final approved product by no later than nine (9) months from award date. Failure to deliver the final product to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian by the stated deadline shall give the Smithsonian the right to terminate the Contract without any compensation to the successful Offeror. In the event of such failure to deliver within the time prescribed herein, Smithsonian shall have the right to procure the services and/or products from an alternate source and the Successful Offeror hereby agrees to pay reasonable costs incurred by the Smithsonian in reliance on the Successful Offeror's performance hereunder. 10. Project Schedule. As part of their proposals, Offerors shall submit a proposed project schedule for completion of all work effort required herein for Smithsonian's consideration. Upon award the agreed upon schedule shall be incorporated in the contract and the Contractor shall strictly adhere to said schedule in its performance under the contract. Contractor's schedule shall provide for an opportunity for Smithsonian to review and approve each deliverable as it is developed. 11. Statement of Work. All Services will be provided pursuant and subject to the attached Statement of Work. B. Project Description The Website was last redesigned in 2004 as an html/aspx hybrid, and limitations in both functionality and content presentation have developed over time as web technology has advanced. In addition, the Lemelson Center itself has expanded its scope with the addition of two physical

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 5 of 96

spaces with web presences: the Spark!Lab hands-on invention center (http://sparklab.si.edu) and the Lemelson Hall of Invention exhibition gallery. The Lemelson Hall featured an interactive, family-focused exhibition, Invention at Play (http://inventionatplay.org) until its closure in November 2011for the renovation of the Museum's west wing, in which the gallery is located. Planning is underway for Places of Invention (http://invention.smithsonian.org/places), the new exhibition for the Lemelson Hall, scheduled to open upon completion of the renovation in 2015. A proliferation of website addresses has accompanied the Center's expanding programs. Originally viewed as a positive step toward better brand identity, this practice has in fact led to confusion and intellectual disconnects among the various segments of our web presence. Both the Invention at Play site (inventionatplay.org) and the rudimentary Spark!Lab site (sparklab.si.edu) function separately from each other as well as from the main Lemelson Center website (invention.smithsonian.org). Furthermore, the main site contains legacy "microsites" in the "Centerpieces" section which also have little connection, technically or intellectually, to the other parts of the Center's web presence. The development of a site for the Places of Invention exhibition could add another independent, self-contained site to the list. Our goals for a renovation and expansion include assuring that visitors to our site, whether first-time or returning users, understand the mission of the Lemelson Center, and understand at all times that they are on the Lemelson Center website. As the importance of the Web as a basic tool for education, research, and open-ended exploration continues to grow, the Lemelson Center would benefit from consolidating and streamlining its websites in order to present a unified face to the public and to make the most efficient use of both the information contained in the site and of the limited staff time dedicated to maintaining and growing the site. By consolidating, streamlining, and integrating the sites, preferably using a site-wide database of available digital assets, we can provide better access to our information across the unified site while still creating features of interest to individual audiences. This renovation and expansion encompasses the creation of a single site that serves all of the Lemelson Center's functions and audiences in a unified structure, including expanded and enhanced Web presences for Spark!Lab and the Places of Invention research and exhibition project. In addition, we desire to transform the Lemelson Center website from what is primarily a broadcast mechanism to a participatory and lively community of Web visitors. An important objective behind the redesign of the website is to engage a larger, more diverse, global audience by creating a website capable of interfacing with and utilizing cutting-edge technologies such as social media and smart phone applications. Finally, the renovation and expansion includes the development of two new online components that will connect with in-gallery interactive experiences in the Places of Invention exhibition (details in section 2.1 below) and serve as the design core of the developing Places of Invention section of the website. As in the rest of the redesign, the Lemelson Center seeks a unified look-and-feel while acknowledging the special requirements of the Places of Invention topic. C. Submission of Proposals

1. Method and Date of Submittal. Offerors shall submit one (1) copy of the Technical Proposal and one (1) copy of the Business Proposal in pdf format via e-mail attachment to cranec@si.edu by no later than November 13, 2012, 9:00 AM Local Washington DC Time. The e-mail shall include the following subject line: Response to Lemelson Center

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 6 of 96

RFP#F13SOL10001 from... [Add name of company]. Each attachment shall be labeled, Technical Proposal and Business Proposal, respectively. Proposals should be identified by including the following information in the attachment: Firm's Name: [ADD NAME] Smithsonian Institution Solicitation No.: F13SOL10001. Location: Washington, DC Project: NMAH Lemelson Center Website Redesign RFP Due Date: November 13, 2012, 9:00 AM Local Washington DC Time

2.

Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Proposals.

a. Any Proposal received at the e-mail address designated above after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the Proposal would not unduly delay the award, and: (i.) It was sent by e-mail and it is determined by Smithsonian that the late receipt was due solely to mishandling by the Smithsonian after its receipt at the Smithsonian; (ii.) It is the only proposal received; or (iii.) The Contracting Officer makes a determination that it is in the best interests Smithsonian to consider the Proposal.

of the

b. A proposal modification resulting from the Smithsonian Contracting Officer's request for final proposal revisions received after the time and date specified in the request will not be considered unless received before award and the late receipt is due solely to mishandling by the Smithsonian after receipt at the Smithsonian installation, or the Contracting Officer makes a determination that it is in the best interests of the Smithsonian to consider the modification. c. E-mails should request a receipt of acknowledgment and Smithsonian will endeavor to respond promptly to such requests during normal business hours. The only acceptable evidence to establish the time and date a proposal, late proposal or modification was sent by e-mail is an e-mail from the Smithsonian acknowledging receipt. Smithsonian shall not be responsible for any failure of any transmission of any e-mail sent to it and shall only be responsible for receipt of those e-mails that were acknowledged by it. d. The only acceptable evidence to establish the time/date of receipt at the Smithsonian Office of Contracting is the time/date of the e-mail received by the Office of Contracting and maintained by said office. e. Proposals may be withdrawn by e-mail, written notice sent by hand delivery, U.S. Mail or commercial carrier and received by Chris Crane of the Smithsonian Office of Contracting any time before award. An Offeror may withdraw proposals in person or by an authorized representative, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before award.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 7 of 96

f. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Smithsonian may be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. D. Proposal Submission Requirements 1. General.

a. Offerors shall submit one (1) copy of the Technical Proposal and one (1) copy of the Business Proposal as separte pdf files attached to an e-mail addressed to cranec@si.edu. The e-mail shall reference the following in the subject line: Response to Lemelson Center RFP#F13SOL10001 from... [Add name of company]. Proposals shall be submitted in a minimum font size of Times New Roman 11. The Technical and Price Proposals shall conform to the prescribed format and submission requirements outlined herein. Offerors whose Proposals deviate from these requirements may be disqualified at the discretion of the Smithsonian. b. The Smithsonian reserves the right to enter into negotiations with any or all of the Offerors as it deems to be in the best interest of the Smithsonian. However, Offerors are advised that award may be made without discussion or any contact concerning the proposals received. Therefore, Proposals should be submitted initially on the most favorable terms which the Offerors can submit to the Smithsonian Institution, without assumption that they will be contacted or afforded an opportunity to clarify, discuss, or revise their Proposals. c. Proposals, modifications, or withdrawals sent via express or regular mail, fax or other method not specified in Section C. above, will not be considered. d. All Proposals shall state that offers are valid for a period of at least ninety (90) days following submission. 2. Technical Proposal. Technical Proposals shall address the requirements contained in the Scope of Work, Specifications and other requirements of the RFP and shall contain sufficient details (without reference to cost or price) to permit a complete and accurate evaluation of the proposal from a strictly technical viewpoint. When preparing their technical proposal, Offerors should consider the evaluation criteria set forth in Section E, against which the proposals will be evaluated. All proposals must include each of the following elements listed below to be considered complete (failure to furnish clear, concise, and complete information requested in this RFP may be cause for withdrawal of a proposal from further consideration): a. Plan of Accomplishment. Offerors shall provide the following as part of their Plan of Accomplishment: i. a narrative strategy which clearly relays its creative, technical and educational approach for effectively performing the services and providing the products required herein. Approaches to client communication, budget control, and schedule maintenance must be discussed; iii. a detailed narrative explaining their vision and approach to creating an innovative website that reflects both best practices and outstanding user experiences and incorporates forward-looking Web strategies and techniques

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 8 of 96

ii. A detailed project schedule for completing the work required hereunder by the stated project deadline (or by an alternative date, if such stated project deadline is not practicable). This schedule shall indicate all milestones of the project and shall provide for delivery to the Smithsonian of all materials, including without limitation the final website, and include all requisite Smithsonian reviews and approvals; b. Past Performance. Offerors must demonstrate experience in similar projects in scope and scale. Each Offeror should provide a minimum of three (3) examples of comparable work performed by the Offeror's company, preferably in the past three (3) years, including: i. the client's name for whom the work was done, ii. a brief summary of the work performed, iii. contact information and web addresses of clients for references, iv. the estimated dollar value of the work, v. time frame and professional effort involved, vi. project manager and assigned staff, and vii. the results achieved. In addition, proposals should show evidence of Offeror's previous experience designing comparable websites for students conforming to National Educational standards; and demonstrate any experience working with Native American materials. The proposal should include the number of years the Offeror has been in business, and may include information about the relevant capabilities of the Offeror that are not otherwise evident in the comparable work summaries described herein. In addition, Proposal should include work samples on disc or links to Offeror's web sites, resumes, references and any other supporting documentation. Samples should be from the last three years and not exceed five (5) items. c. Business Plan. Contractor must submit a complete and comprehensive itemized budget for all services requested including a complete accounting of all costs. The final contract price will be evaluated as a total cost, including all labor, materials, travel and lodging. d. Key Personnel. Offerors should submit resumes for the primary individuals who will represent the successful Offeror and work with Smithsonian staff to provide the services and products described herein. Offeror's proposal should include sufficient information to identify and describe the previous experience and effectiveness of its Key Personnel with similar projects and their current capacity to provide the services offered. Proposals should also include a list of tasks that will be subcontracted, if any, by your firm and a prospective list of subcontractors. 3. Rejection of Proposals.

a. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any and all proposals received as a result of this request. Noncompliance with the conditions of this RFP may result in disqualification of the Offeror. b. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any proposal received at the location after the time and date specified on the cover page of this solicitation.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 9 of 96

c. The Smithsonian may reject an offer as non-responsive if it is materially unbalanced as to prices for the requirements. An offer is unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly less than cost for some work and prices which are significantly overstated for other work. d. The Smithsonian reserves the right to cancel this solicitation in its entirety. E. Evaluation Procedures

1. Proposals shall be evaluated in accordance with the following criteria being applied to the information requested in section D: a. Plan of Accomplishment (including schedule with creative and technical approaches to the Statement of Work, and a detailed description of the ways in which the plan reflects forward-looking, innovative web strategies and techniques). b. Firm's Experience and Past Performance (including samples of experience developing innovative content). c. Business Proposal (including final contract price, costs and itemized budget). 2. Price/Technical Proposal Trade-off and Award Decision/Best Value a. Contract(s) will be awarded to Offeror(s) the Smithsonian Institution determines can best meet the identified requirements based upon the Offeror's proposal(s). The Smithsonian Institution reserves the right in all cases to be the sole judge determining whether a respondent meets the evaluation criteria. A firm must be technically acceptable in order to be considered for award. b. It is anticipated a contract will be awarded to the Offeror(s) whose proposal when evaluating both the technical and business proposals is most advantageous and presents the best value to the Smithsonian Institution. Award of this Contract shall be made to the responsive, responsible Offeror(s) whose combined cost and technical proposal is in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, determined to be the most advantageous and in the best interests of Smithsonian Institution. c. Each Offeror's price shall be evaluated for reasonableness to determine the Offeror's understanding of the work effort and the ability to perform hereunder. The existence of adequate price competition will support a determination of reasonableness. This includes both original submissions and best and finals, if required. d. Since the evaluation of the price will represent a portion of the total evaluation, it is possible that an Offeror might not be selected for award because of unreasonable, unrealistic, incomplete, inaccurate, or non-current price proposal information. e. In conducting the evaluation, the Smithsonian may use data provided by the Offeror in its proposal as well as data obtained from other sources. While the Smithsonian may elect to consider data obtained from other sources, the burden of providing thorough and complete information rests with the Offeror.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 10 of 96

3. Complete Information. Failure to furnish complete information requested in the RFP may cause the Offeror to be judged non-responsive and immediately be removed from further consideration. F. Contract Award

1. The Smithsonian reserves the right to (a) reject any or all offers if such action is in the best interest of the Smithsonian, (b) accept other than the lowest offer, and (c) waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 2. The Smithsonian reserves the right to award a contract or contracts on the basis of initial offers received, without discussions or any other contact concerning the proposals received. Therefore, each initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. 3. A written award or acceptance of offer mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Smithsonian Institution may accept an offer, whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless written notice of withdrawal is received before award. Negotiations conducted after receipt of an offer do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Smithsonian Institution. 4. This request does not commit the Smithsonian to pay any preparation costs nor to make reimbursements for any of the cost associated with a response to this request.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 11 of 96

PART II

STATEMENT OF WORK Lemelson Center Web Site Renovation and Expansion RFP-F13SOL10001 Smithsonian Institution National Museum of American History 2012-10-01

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 12 of 96

Table of Contents 1 2 Background 1.1 Project Background 1.2 Smithsonian Background Purpose and Objectives 2.1 The current Lemelson Center site 2.2 The new Lemelson Center site 2.3 Requirements 2.4 Analysis 2.5 Design & Development 2.6 Content migration 2.7 Code Review 2.8 Test and Acceptance 2.9 Smithsonian Delivered Information 2.10 Maintenance Support 2.11 Accessibility Standards Deliverables and Reports (hardware, software, and data items) 3.1 Deliverables 3.2 Documentation, training and knowledge transfer 3.3 Inspection and Acceptance Management Requirements 4.1 Technical Review 4.2 Contracting Officers Technical Representative 4.3 Key Personnel and Level of Expertise 4.4 Location 4.5 Travel 4.6 Access to SI's Computer / Data Network 4.7 Security Credentials Exhibits and Attachments 5.1 Smithsonian Web and New Media Strategy, http://smithsonianwebstrategy.wikispaces.com 5.2 Smithsonian 2.0 Conference, http://smithsonian20.si.edu 5.3 Smithsonian Web Technology Standards 5.4 Smithsonian Project Management Plan Template 5.5 Smithsonian Combined Requirements, High Level Architecture, and Design Plan Template 5.6 Smithsonian Institution Strategic Plan Executive Summary, http://www.si.edu/About/Policies

3

4

5

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 13 of 96

Background PROJECT BACKGROUND
THE JEROME AND DOROTHY LEMELSON CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INVENTION AND INNOVATION (THE "CENTER") WAS FOUNDED AT THE SMITHSONIAN'S NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (NMAH) IN 1995 THROUGH A GENEROUS GIFT FROM THE LEMELSON FOUNDATION. THE CENTER'S MISSION IS TO DOCUMENT, INTERPRET, AND DISSEMINATE INFORMATION ABOUT INVENTION AND INNOVATION, TO ENCOURAGE INVENTIVE CREATIVITY IN YOUNG PEOPLE, AND TO FOSTER AN APPRECIATION FOR THE CENTRAL ROLE INVENTION AND INNOVATION PLAY IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES. BUILDING ON THE UNIQUE RESOURCES OF NMAH, THE CENTER SEEKS INNOVATIVE WAYS TO: RECORD THE PAST BY PRESERVING AND INCREASING ACCESS TO RECORDS AND ARTIFACTS; BROADEN OUR UNDERSTANDING OF HISTORY THROUGH RESEARCH, DISCUSSION, AND THE DISSEMINATION OF IDEAS; AND LOOK TO THE FUTURE BY DEVELOPING PROGRAMS AIMED AT ENGAGING YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE STUDY AND EXPLORATION OF INVENTION AND INNOVATION.

The Lemelson Center's website (http://invention.smithsonian.org) serves as an introduction to the educational and scholarly work of the Center. The site offers a variety of information, from calendar events and newsletters to in-depth explorations of invention topics, research aids, and online exhibitions, among other features. SMITHSONIAN BACKGROUND The Smithsonian Institution (SI) is a trust instrumentality of the United States founded in 1846 in response to the will of Englishman James Smithson who bequeathed the whole of his property to the United States of America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge." In the 160 plus years since that time the Smithsonian has grown to include 19 museums, the National Zoological Park, and 9 research centers located in Washington, DC and its metropolitan area, New York City, NY, Cambridge, MA, Fort Pierce, FL, and Panama. The Smithsonian employs approximately 6,000 staff, has nearly 140 million collection objects, and in 2008, hosted over 25 million visitors at its core museum locations and over 172 million visitors to its public websites. Today the Institution in addition to its Trust financing, also receives a significant portion of its budget from the United States government and therefore must comply with certain Federal mandates regarding information technology and security. The Smithsonian's Lemelson Center is physically located in the National Museum of American History in Washington, DC. Purpose and Objectives: The Lemelson Center's website was last redesigned in 2004 as an html/aspx hybrid, and limitations in both functionality and content presentation have developed over time as Web technology has advanced. In addition, the Lemelson Center itself has expanded its scope with the addition of two physical spaces with Web presences: the Spark!Lab hands-on invention center (http://sparklab.si.edu) and the Lemelson Hall of Invention exhibition gallery. The Lemelson Hall featured an interactive, family-focused exhibition, Invention at Play (http://inventionatplay.org) until its closure in November 2011for the renovation of the

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 14 of 96

Museum's west wing, in which the gallery is located. Planning is underway for Places of Invention (http://invention.smithsonian.org/places), the new exhibition for the Lemelson Hall, scheduled to open upon completion of the renovation in 2015. An exciting feature of Places of Invention will be its interactive features that will connect visitors in the gallery with users of the companion Web presence (more information on plans for the Places of Invention section of the website are included in Section 2.2). A proliferation of website addresses has accompanied the Center's expanding programs. Originally viewed as a positive step toward better brand identity, this practice has in fact led to confusion and intellectual disconnects among the various segments of our Web presence. The Invention at Play site (inventionatplay.org) and the rudimentary Spark!Lab (sparklab.si.edu) and Places of Invention (invention.smithsonian.org/places) sites function separately from each other as well as from the main Lemelson Center website (invention.smithsonian.org). Furthermore, the main site contains legacy "microsites" in the "Centerpieces" section which also have little connection, technically or intellectually, to the other parts of the Center's Web presence. Our goals for a renovation and expansion include assuring that visitors to our site, whether first-time or returning users, understand the mission of the Lemelson Center, and understand at all times that they are on the Lemelson Center website. As the importance of the Web as a basic tool for education, research, and open-ended exploration continues to grow, the Lemelson Center would benefit from consolidating and streamlining its websites in order to present a unified face to the public and to make the most efficient use of both the information contained in the site and of the limited staff time dedicated to maintaining and growing the site. By consolidating, streamlining, and integrating the sites, preferably using a site-wide database of available digital assets, we can provide better access to our information across the unified site while still creating features of interest to individual audiences. This renovation and expansion encompasses the creation of a single site that serves all of the Lemelson Center's functions and audiences in a unified structure, including expanded and enhanced Web presences for Spark!Lab and the Places of Invention research and exhibition project. In addition, we desire to transform the Lemelson Center website from what is primarily a broadcast mechanism to a participatory and lively community of Web visitors. An important objective behind the renovation and expansion of the website is to engage a larger, more diverse, global audience by creating a website capable of interfacing with and utilizing cutting-edge technologies such as social media and smart phone applications. We also envision a website in which moderated user-contributed content will grow exponentially. The Lemelson Center engaged R/P Marketing Public Relations to study its current website and develop recommendations for the renovation and expansion. The findings of this study are summarized in Section 2.2 below and the full report is available by request. THE CURRENT LEMELSON CENTER SITE The current Lemelson Center website serves a range of audiences, from teachers, students, and families to scholars and other history professionals. The main sections of the current site are listed below. Note: The Lemelson Center seeks the Contractor's advice on reorganizing the site content for ease of use and to promote integration of the Center's scholarly and educational arms. The Center also seeks ideas for enhancing its presence on the NMAH and SI main websites.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 15 of 96

o o

Home (primary audience = general) About Us (primary audience = general adult)  Lemelson Center administrative information: ˇ History ˇ Team ˇ Affiliate programs ˇ FAQ  News Briefs from the staff  Information about Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson: ˇ Biographies ˇ List of Lemelson's patents  Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to: ˇ Adding staff profiles ˇ Creating media-rich feature highlighting in preparation for donation of Jerome Lemelson's papers to the Museum Centerpieces (primary audiences = students, families)  Virtual exhibitions and experiences: ˇ Invention at Play exhibition website (contained within "Centerpieces" but also accessible at separate URL, http://inventionatplay.org) ˇ Spark!Lab website (contained within "Centerpieces" but also accessible at separate URL, http://sparklab.si.edu) ˇ Places of Invention exhibition "proto-website" ˇ Inventing Ourselves biotechnology exhibition ˇ The Invention of the Electric Guitar exhibition ˇ Doodles, Drafts, and Designs industrial design exhibition ˇ Innovative Lives, biography-based school program with inventors ˇ Edison Invents (formerly) interactive feature ˇ The Quartz Watch invention-history feature ˇ Whole Cloth industrialization curriculum ˇ Exhibitions at the Lemelson Center  Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to: ˇ Removing/repurposing Invention at Play and Innovative Lives sections ˇ Evaluating long-term value of other Centerpieces ˇ Incorporating standard shells, headers, and footers for other Centerpieces ˇ Creating distinctive yet compatible design of Spark!Lab section of the website. Features discussed to date include but are not limited to: o Consolidating interactive features currently sprinkled throughout site. o Allowing visitors to add comments and photos to Activities pages. o Determining methods of posting videos made by visitors in physical Spark!Lab to website

o

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 16 of 96

o Providing information about spinoff Spark!Labs in other locations o Providing Spark!Lab specific event calendar (subset of main Lemelson Center event calendar) o Including more and livelier inventor profiles o Creating mechanisms for community involvement to discuss activities, share ideas, etc. in a DIY-style forum (see http://www.instructables.com/ as one possible model) ˇ Creating distinctive yet compatible design of Places of Invention section of the website. See Section 2.2 for detailed information. o Events (primary audience = general)  Events calendar  Past events listing  Symposium highlights o Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to:  Incorporating "add to iCal, Google, etc." functionality  Integrating with NMAH and SI calendars to avoid multiple postings  Creating method(s) to add video, audio, images, and news from past programs and highlights for upcoming events Resources (primary audiences = researchers, history professionals, teachers)  Educational materials  Lemelson Center research support: ˇ Fellowships ˇ Travel to collections awards ˇ Archival internship  Index to inventors featured on the site  Modern Inventors Documentation Program information ˇ Brochure ˇ Searchable database of invention-related archival collections in the U.S. and Canada ˇ Guides to the invention-related holdings of the NMAH Archives Center, including finding aids to archival collections (the latter will not be part of the new site) ˇ Documenting Invention pages (guide for archivists, curators, and other custodians of the invention-related historical record)  Feature-length articles about the history of invention, inventors, and invention-related collections in the Museum  Recommended books and websites o Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to:  Updating the searchable database of archival collections to include an online form for self-reporting by repositories  Removing online finding aids to NMAH collections, as these are moving to a pan-Institutional portal, and creating instead a name/subject index to these collections, linked to the portal.

o

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 17 of 96

 

Incorporating the existing index to inventors featured on the Lemelson Center site with the archival name/subject index, automating additions to that index, and adding media to the index as available. Reconceptualizing, reorganizing, and/or redesigning the Documenting Invention pages to make them more dynamic, easier to locate, and more relevant to the public history profession (e.g., include archival training videos)

o

Video and Audio (primary audience = general)  Podcasts and short videos  Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to:  Creating a more dynamic showcase for these materials Press Room (primary audiences = general adult, media)  Lemelson Center publications: ˇ Newsletters ˇ Annual reports ˇ Press releases ˇ Press kit ˇ "Bright Ideas" blog (http://blog.invention.smithsonian.org) ˇ Image bank for press use  Some issues to be discussed during the renovation and expansion include, but are not limited to: ˇ Creating a more visually appealing press presence ˇ Renaming these materials since they are not exclusively or even mostly used by the press ˇ Including relevant press/media information throughout the site, not just in one section ˇ Retire or reassess Image Bank and Press Kit Footer links  Site map  Smithsonian copyright information  Smithsonian privacy policy The following file types are currently used on the Lemelson Center website:  asp/aspx  cfm  doc  gif  htm/html  jpg  mov  mp3  pdf  png  swf  tif  wav

o

o

ˇ

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 18 of 96

THE NEW LEMELSON CENTER SITE To prepare for the renovation and expansion, the Lemelson Center contracted a strategic analysis of the current site and to establish the purpose, intended audiences, and measurable goals for the new site (The full report is available by request). Purpose The Lemelson Center exists to further understanding and appreciation of the belief that both the spirit and act of invention and innovation hold vast and varied value. To aid in the furthering of a mission well-grounded in "fostering" and "encouraging" our individual audience members, the purpose of the website is defined as follows: The Lemelson Center website delivers meaningful and lasting growth experiences to site visitors by fostering an understanding and appreciation of the central role of invention and innovation in the history and future of the United States. Audience Three primary audiences for Lemelson Center content were identified: ˇ Researchers ˇ Children (ages 6-12) visiting the site with a parent/families ˇ Niche adults, i.e., those having a significant personal interest in innovation and invention Measurable goals: A number of metrics were identified to measure the success of the new site: f. Decrease in the current bounce rate as an indication of increased experience satisfaction. g. Metrics currently used to measure engagement (e.g., number of pages per visit, amount of time spent on site) are recommended as general benchmark considerations. h. Listening and documenting the comments and tone of "social buzz" as part of interactive measurement efforts. i. Direct engagement, such as signing up for a newsletter or downloading an activity from Spark!Lab (or some other form of content). j. Documenting the amount of content that is "shared." 1. Overview of renovation and expansion Guided by these goals, the Smithsonian's Lemelson Center seeks a contractor to completely redesign the graphic look-and-feel, content management framework, and navigation structure of the site. With Lemelson Center staff, the contractor will reorganize, refine, and rethink the navigation structure of the site. The design approach should reflect a growing understanding of learning as a hybrid of formal education and self-directed discovery that can be brought together and enhanced by online tools. The newly-designed site should be integrated, interactive, and scaleable. We desire:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 19 of 96

ˇ A unified look-and-feel that makes it clear to visitors that they are viewing Lemelson Center content at all times, integrating the special nature of the content in the Spark!Lab and Places of Invention sections of the website. Rather than separate standalone sites for Spark!Lab and Places of Invention, the renovation and expansion will result in a single site that creates visually- and intellectually-related portions of the website serving Spark!Lab and Places of Invention. The contractor will be responsible for developing and integrating all three components of the Lemelson Center's website. ˇ A clear and intuitive navigation scheme. ˇ Creation of a robust database/content management system to maintain and serve content. ˇ A site that is fully accessible, meeting the Web accessibility guidelines set forth by the Web Accessibility Initiative (see http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php) and fully functional on multiple platforms, from Macs and PCs to smartphones and other mobile devices. Advice on translating site content into Spanish is also desired. ˇ Integration of our social media outlets, website, podcast presence on iTunes, and video on YouTube and Vimeo. ˇ Integration of scholarly and educational content through use of multimedia, interactivity, and an expanded range of materials offered to researchers. ˇ Varied and appropriate methods for community interaction through the website.

Places of Invention While creating the structure for content related to the Places of Invention exhibition is included in this renovation and expansion (more information on the exhibition is available by request), a special requirement is the integration of ingallery experiences for the Places of Invention exhibition and the new website. The Lemelson Center is working with the design firm Roto for the gallery exhibition, which includes interactive features for Museum visitors. Two of these activities will be integrated with the Lemelson Center website. The first activity is a form of interactive map that will allow visitors to add content (text, images, video, audio) about their personal places of invention, from home workshops to geographical locations. The map will also appear on the website, with content shared and synchronized between the website and the gallery. The second feature is the "build a place of invention" activity that will offer visitors the opportunity to interact with each other as they contribute to an everchanging invented town. Again, this feature will be incorporated into the website as well, with content shared and synchronized between the website and the gallery. The Contractor and Roto will be required to coordinate functionality, user interface, and design considerations for these features. Roto will be responsible for the design, fabrication, programming, and installation of the interactive map and "build a place of invention" activities in the gallery. The Contractor and Roto will work together to ensure that the assets and information submitted by visitors onsite and online are uploaded seamlessly to the interactive map and "build a

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 20 of 96

place of invention" features in the gallery and on the website. This will include, but is not limited to:
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ the automatic, seamless, and continuous syncing of moderated user-generated content submitted through kiosks in the exhibition and through the website the expectation of the submission of increasing amounts of moderated usergenerated content over time the ability to search content the inclusion of a work-flow structure for moderating submitted content

REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor will work closely with Lemelson Center staff to conceptualize the site, develop new ways to reach our audiences, enhance the branding of our material, and design all pages, including choosing the color palette and typography, navigational tools, and layout grid. The Contractor will work closely with the design firm Roto on the realization and coordination of the two Places of Invention exhibition interactive features described in Section 2.2. The Contractor will advise the Lemelson Center on the advantages and disadvantages of open source and proprietary systems, including, but not limited to, Drupal and HTML5. The Contractor will perform all production work, including programming, incorporation of all site components, and creation of all links. The Contractor will designate a project manager who will coordinate with SI, oversee all requested changes, provide quality control, and act as a liaison with SI. Lemelson Center staff will provide the all content assets (including, but not limited to, text, images, audio, and video) for the website. Mutually agreed-upon deliverables and the end product will be subject to the Smithsonian's final written approval, as provided in the awarded contract. SI shall have ownership of all source files including images, audio, video, related code, documentation, site files, and content used in the finished product. This project may be awarded as design-build at best value.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 21 of 96

ID

Type Accessibility ˇ

Requirement Description

All images shall have properly coded alt tags. Text shall employ adequate contrast and size for readability. Contractor shall avoid superimposing text over background images. The line length for blocks of text should stay in the 55-75 character range. Font size scalability is desirable. Video transcripts will be included. Good faith efforts should be made to meet all other accessibility standards set forth in Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (Section 1194.22) and the W3C priority 1, 2, and 3 checkpoints for Web content accessibility.
Content be accessible via real time translation to create multilingual content and Web 2.0 experiences, (real time translation such as via Google Translate should be incorporated), with the visitor given the option to select the language of choice from a list that includes languages from across the globe, and not concentrated on only a few continents. Machine readable form for exchange of information. The Smithsonian logo and additional links such as copyright and privacy policies defined by SI must appear on each page. All pages must contain the date of the last revision and links to the National Museum of American History home page.

Additional Comments If a portion of the design will not satisfy these requests, then these exceptions will be identified during the analysis and design phase by the contractor and include clearly stated pros and cons of not meeting these requirements and any severe burden. After reviewing the identified exceptions, the Smithsonian may waive these requirements on accessibility and multi-lingual on a case-by-case basis. Waivers shall be granted as the exception and not the rule.

Accessibility ˇ

If a portion of the design will not satisfy these requests, then these exceptions will be identified during the analysis and design phase by the contractor and include clearly stated pros and cons of not meeting these requirements and any severe burden. After reviewing the identified exceptions, the Smithsonian may waive these requirements on accessibility and multilingual on a case-by-case basis. Waivers shall be granted as the exception and not the rule.

Accessibility ˇ Accessibility ˇ Accessibility ˇ Accessibility ˇ

Include "printer friendly" features.

The website must have links or embedded plug-ins such as Java and Adobe for opening and viewing these documents.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 22 of 96

ID

Type Accessibility ˇ

Requirement Description Site design must offer a quick and user-friendly way to locate the information the customer is seeking. It also must be easy and simple to navigate, consistent and visually appealing, and should not overwhelm users with visual clutter.

Additional Comments

Accessibility ˇ

Accessibility ˇ

Graphic files should be relative to site. Design with simplicity to allow for quickest loading. Web pages should be tested for standard PC, laptops, and mobile devices to ensure each webpage can be accessed in a timely manner. Include e-mail response, surveys, feedback, forms, and access to Lemelson Center calendar. The designer must incorporate the ability for users to complete interactive online forms.
The website should display properly on standard Web browsers (current and legacy) and common plug-ins defined by the Smithsonian Institution. The design and approach shall be easily extensible to new browsers as they emerge in the future. The needs of multiple audiences must be addressed to connect educational activities and history of invention scholarship. The 3 target audiences defined for the Lemelson Center website are: ˇ Researchers ˇ Children (ages 6-12) visiting the site with a parent/families ˇ Niche adults, i.e., those having a significant personal interest in innovation and invention The site should degrade gracefully for older versions, if there is any degradation at all.

Accessibility ˇ

Design ˇ

Some preliminary ideas include: ---adapt archives-based activities from Spark!Lab; include historical footage when available; use QTVR or other 3D imaging for artifact representation; include curators show-and-tell with activity videos.
---offer more biographical information, rights-free images, sample documents, etc., about inventors that students may use in projects

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 23 of 96

ID

Type Design ˇ

Requirement Description

Additional Comments

Design ˇ

The new website must create a community experience to include one or more common launch pads to the Lemelson Center's presence in third party sites to include, but not be limited to, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, GoogleMaps, Blogs, Vimeo, Flickr, and other mechanisms that foster communities and visitor interaction with both Lemelson Center staff and other visitors. The design and approach shall be easily extensible to add new venues as they emerge in the future. The new website design must integrate the specific needs of the main Lemelson Center site, the Spark!Lab arm of the Lemelson Center, and the upcoming Places of Invention exhibition in its lookand-feel.

Some preliminary ideas include: ---create a two-way communication stream that encourages children to send us their invention ideas, pictures/photos, and videos. ---add "post a review" capability to books section ---encourage fellows, interns, and travel to collections award recipients to discuss their research, ask questions, contribute interesting stories, etc.
The Lemelson Center's goal is to achieve a unified lookand-feel for the various components of its site while maintaining appropriate individual elements to subsections. The Center wishes to include regularly-updated, visuallyrich, representative information about its activities, new audio and video content, social media content, blog posts, Spark!lab information, etc. on the site.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 24 of 96

ID

Type Design ˇ

Requirement Description

Additional Comments

Create a media-rich website that incorporates a variety of interactive features relevant to the site's main, Spark!Lab, and Places of Invention audiences.

"Interactivity" means more than "clicking"; we want our visitors to actually "do" something. Some possible interactive features include: ---a virtual "Invention Corner" with grab bag inventing challenges ---an interactive Web version of the SoundScapes activity in Spark!Lab ---a "play a virtual electric guitar" module (inspired by the iPad GarageBand app) ---a "virtual storybook" area with page-turning software, so parents can read books to their kids online. ---cell phone tours, "more information" numbers, QR codes, etc., that connect physical exhibitions with our website.
---refresh and/or repurpose current popular interactives games on the site (e.g., Tinker Ball).

---interactive map and "build your place of invention" activity as part of the companion Web presence for the Lemelson Center's new exhibition, Places of Invention.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 25 of 96

ID

Type Design ˇ

Requirement Description

Coordinate with the exhibition design firm Roto on the realization and coordination of two Places of Invention exhibition interactive features, described in Section 2.2.

Design ˇ

In consultation with the Center, recommend graphic standards for the site.

Additional Comments Includes, but is not limited to: A. the automatic, seamless, and continuous syncing of moderated user-generated content submitted through kiosks in the exhibition and through the website B. the expectation of the submission of increasing amounts of moderated user-generated content over time C. the ability to search content D. the inclusion of a work-flow structure for moderating submitted content These may include, but are not limited to: ---basic style guidelines that can be applied to both existing and new sections of the website.

---consistent headers and footers, fonts, navigation schemes and their placement, and templates.
Integration ˇ

Integration ˇ

The system must be able to integrate easily into the existing Smithsonian's existing technical architecture as defined in Attachment 5.3 The system must be able to readily accept the integration of new and future Web applications (Web 2.0/3.0 and beyond) as they become available.
The design of the new site shall support smart phone applications to take the Smithsonian experience and make it mobile, and support third party information and exchanges, such as smart phone applications.

Streaming audio/video among others. The Center has an active podcast series (Prototype Online: Inventive Voices) and a large archive of historical and eventbased video. HTML5 is preferred; strong justification for any use of Flash must be made.

Integration ˇ

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 26 of 96

ID

Type Metrics ˇ

Requirement Description Build in metrics and evaluation processes that interface with models used on main Smithsonian website (http://www.si.edu). The site is optimized for search engines (SEO), with search-friendly page URLs.

Metrics ˇ

Mobile ˇ Devices Search ˇ

Search ˇ Security ˇ

Implement a mobile-friendly version of the Lemelson Center website and mobile-friendly templates for new development. Strive for overall usability. Make it easy for online visitors (as well as internal scholars and researchers) to find the content they are, or might be, interested in. Once visitors find content, make it easier for them to find similar and related content elsewhere on the Lemelson Center site and around the Smithsonian. Provide Google page result customization and ability to suggest improvements to the current functionality based on Google appliances used at Smithsonian.

Additional Comments This includes, but is not limited to: ˇ Webtrends (including Webtrends SDC tag) ˇ Javascript ˇ Google Analytics This includes, but is not limited to: a. creating a scheme for unique-per-page title and meta-description tags b. clear, keyword-rich directory structure, filenames, and URLs. See, for example, http://www.folkways.si.edu The goal is to draw dynamic content from the site content management system into mobile-friendly templates. We do not wish to create a separate mobile website. Follow guidelines and practices established by main Smithsonian Web Services Division. The Lemelson Center would like to take advantage especially of features of the Google appliance, including "did you mean?" search assistance.

Security ˇ

Develop site with security in mind. The system must meet all standard security requirements and all content must be secure from any internal and or external threats per Section 2.7.2. All software code shall be annotated according to software engineering best practices and security. Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) recommendations should be followed to prevent crosssite scripting and SQL injections, among others.

Contractors will receive security level requirements from SI computer security group prior to development.

OWASP Web site (https://www.owasp.org/) provides a list of top 10 vulnerabilities from which the system is required to be protected.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 27 of 96

ID

Type Security ˇ

Requirement Description

Additional Comments

The development must include functionality and safeguards for compliance with the Children's Online Privacy and Protection Act (COPPA).
If the site uses e-authentication (e.g., login with personal password) then an e-authentication workbook needs to be completed. If personally-identifiable information is collected, the Contractor must assist in the creation of a privacy impact assessment; and the site must be in compliance with the Smithsonian's privacy statement. The Contractor shall devise an efficient combination of static and dynamic pages, and page templates that are populated from a database/content management system by an automated data extraction process that is modifiable by Lemelson Center/Smithsonian staff in the future. Implement a mechanism to perform automatic updates to page content, headers, and footers for individual pages or groups of pages. Build editorial workflows into content management system. The content management system should be user-friendly and flexible. Open source (e.g., Drupal) is preferred; a strong argument must be made for recommending proprietary systems.

Security ˇ Security ˇ

The Smithsonian's privacy statement is available online at http://www.si.edu/privacy/ The Lemelson Center seeks a unified system of content uploading and editing, streamlined content management that is both fast and user-friendly, and a flexible template and data system that can be adapted in response to changes in Center priorities, Web technology, and new opportunities. The Lemelson Center desires to be able to update, correct, or otherwise change information once, in a single place, and have those changes deployed to whatever section(s) of the website in which they appear.

Technical ˇ

Technical ˇ

Technical ˇ Technical ˇ

Desirable features include: ---an intuitive graphical user interface ---ease of uploading of all file types (e.g., text, images, video, sound) ---multi-level entries to allow content to be used in different ways in different parts of the site (e.g., the same content can be packaged differently and appropriately for delivery to different audiences)
---fully customizable metadata

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 28 of 96

ID

Type Technical ˇ

Requirement Description Provide automatic generation of Sitemaps protocols files (see http://www.sitemaps.org/ ) for all pages generated or specific pages including functionality to define values and automatic update protocol fields.

Additional Comments

Technical ˇ

The architecture shall be modular and supporting swapping out components with new technologies as they emerge to keep the site updated.
Implementation of Smithsonian Logo as a design element must meet the approval of the Smithsonian.

Templates ˇ Usability ˇ

The site will have the navigation capabilities and elements that are currently standard today in best-ofbreed websites.
Incorporate integration with existing online panInstitutional calendar that aggregates upcoming events and announcements. Implement technologies such as "browse paths" (or "breadcrumbs") to encourage broader and deeper avenues for site exploration. All pages must be in compliance with the appropriate Smithsonian policies and applicable local, state, and federal laws. Once the development is completed, the site must be reviewed by the Smithsonian for final approval. The Institution uses Trumba Software as a Service (SaaS). The Lemelson Center does not require this, but would prefer that the system proposed for the Lemelson Center site allows sending information to the Trumba system without rekeying.

Usability ˇ

Usability ˇ Usability ˇ Usability ˇ

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 29 of 96

ANALYSIS

The Lemelson Center has undertaken a study of its current site and its users to inform the renovation and expansion (report is available by request). The renovation and expansion of the Lemelson Center's Web presence shall align with the general direction established in this new strategy. Core recommendations from the study include:
ˇ Intensify brand influence on site Strategic and judicious usage of the Smithsonian and Lemelson brands must be a priority. Additionally, a stronger color palette, a more consistent visual theme, and a more definitive brand positioning as the visitor hits the page would improve the experience and positively influence the site's current low bounce rate. Improve home page "above the fold" presence As the use of higher resolution of monitors has rapidly advanced, developers have "gained space." A tighter design, with the clear purpose of providing the visitor with a confirming first impression and relevant messaging, should be considered when developing the home page, with acute emphasis on content featured "above the fold." Strengthen visual hierarchy As the visitor enters the site, there is a need to provide a clear path to the content we want them to consume and act upon. As we look to develop the site's broad look and feel, any design should make certain the site maintains a purposeful visual content plan that supports prioritized content flow and engagement opportunities for each specified primary audience. Lead with a strong statement A clear development design objective should be to make certain the homepage leads with a bold statement related to both the brand and the site purpose. Clarify navigation and content choices Primary navigation and menu choices should provide meaningful and understandable definitions related to underlying content.

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

During the analysis phase, the Contractor shall:
ˇ Analyze the study and use other Smithsonian Delivered Information (see Section 2.9) as background material to identify additional requirements beyond those identified in Section 2.2. Analyze the current pages listed in Section 2.1 and identify additional content which will need to be provided to create a more welcoming and complete experience for the virtual visitor. Discuss with the Lemelson Center content that should be considered for removal from the site. The Lemelson Center will provide the agreed upon additional content to the Contractor.

ˇ

The above analysis will be documented in a Content & Architecture Analysis Report, and the Contractor and the Lemelson Center shall meet to discuss clarifications in the report so that the Lemelson Center can make a final determination on the recommendations to be included in this effort.
DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 30 of 96

Design all new pages and templates, including choosing the color palette and typography, navigational tools, layout grid, incorporation of all site components and creation of all links. Smithsonian will provide the content for the new website and will make Smithsonian-owned and Lemelson Center-licensed photographs, audio, video, and graphics available to the Contractor. Map existing content and additional content identified in Section 2.3 above, to the templates. Design and develop content management system for entire site. Provide Lemelson Center with guidance and recommendations on use of open source systems, including but not limited to Drupal, cross-platform schemes including but not limited to HTML5 v. Flash, etc. The goal of the content management system is to create a user-friendly, central, and flexible database in which content can be easily added, updated, and deployed to selected areas of the site. Open source is preferred over proprietary systems. Design incorporating use of the Smithsonian logo must meet the approval of the Smithsonian. Design and develop a site palette, typography, and navigational tools using cascading style sheets (CSS). The site must be able to maintain a consistent design (for example through extensive use of templates) while allowing maximum flexibility to adapt the design as needs arise. Moderate and analyze feedback from the target audiences and internal stakeholders, as selected by the Smithsonian (not to exceed 100 people). Recommend and implement changes to the final design based on feedback received. The Smithsonian must approve any recommended changes. CONTENT MIGRATION Work with Lemelson Center staff to migrate existing and new content identified in Sections 2.1 and 2.4 to the new GUI and templates. Lemelson Center staff desire to begin working with the new content management system as part of content migration in order to become familiar with it and to identify any questions, concerns, and adjustments at an early stage. Moderate and analyze feedback from the target audiences and internal stakeholders selected by the Lemelson Center (not to exceed 100 people). Recommend and implement changes to the final design based on feedback received. The Smithsonian must approve any recommended changes. CODE REVIEW During development of the website, the Contractor shall make regular submissions of the source code for sections of the new Lemelson Center website in accordance with the approved project plan. The Smithsonian will review the code, and provide feedback in (7) seven business days on corrective actions to be taken by the Contractor. TEST AND ACCEPTANCE The Contractor shall provide a Master Test Plan to include:

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

How testing will be used to ensure that the delivered product meets the Smithsonian's requirements and functions as designed. What will be tested How testing will be performed Pass/Fail criteria Test deliverables (e.g., test report, including discrepancies identified during testing)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 31 of 96

ˇ

ˇ Test scripts (procedures) Test environment.

Initial testing will be performed by the Contractor at their facilities with a final report submitted to the Smithsonian. The same Master Test Plan will later be used to conduct acceptance testing at the Smithsonian facilities.
Security Testing. After a successful Master Test of the new Lemelson Center website at the Contractor's facilities, the Contractor will install the final Lemelson Center website on the Smithsonian Web environment in the Smithsonian's Data Center. The Smithsonian will then conduct security testing, which shall include but not be limited to the top ten vulnerabilities identified on the OWASP site. Any problems will be reported to the Contractor for resolution. Acceptance testing re-executing the Master Test Plan will be performed by the Contractor and witnessed by the Smithsonian utilizing Smithsonian infrastructure and conducted in the Smithsonian's Data Center in Herndon, Virginia. Acceptance testing will not begin until the new Lemelson Center website has successfully passed the security testing. As a condition of acceptance, the contractor shall provide a written System Configuration Report:

ˇ ˇ

The target audience is Web/Web application administrators The report shall provide detailed information on how the site is installed and configured on the Web/Web application servers, including all required Web server settings, database connection methods and connection strings, and any initialization file(s) or other critical files. Please note that should the site be moved to different servers or a different file location in the current environment with the same configuration at the time of acceptance, it should be possible for a central Smithsonian system administrator, who is not familiar with the site, to reference this document and have all the information necessary to get it up and running quickly. ˇ Access to all digital assets on current Lemelson Center site ˇ Smithsonian Institution Strategic Plan (see Executive Summary at Attachment 5.6; full plan available at http://www.si.edu/Content/Pdf/About/SI_Strategic_Plan_2010-2015.pdf) ˇ Smithsonian Web & New Media Strategic Plan (see Attachment 5.1) ˇ Source code of the existing Lemelson Center website, upon request

SMITHSONIAN DELIVERED INFORMATION

MAINTENANCE SUPPORT

The contractor shall provide on-call maintenance support on the iteration currently in the Smithsonian's production environment Monday through Friday from 8 am to 5 pm east coast time through the period of performance of this contract and for 6 months thereafter.
ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS

Reasonable effort shall be made to accommodate users with visual, hearing, or mobility impairments, and other disabilities. Smithsonian must approve any exceptions to

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 32 of 96

Section 508 and W3C standards as specified in the requirements, Section 2.2 of this document.
Deliverables and Reports (hardware, software, and data items) PROPOSED DELIVERABLES SCHEDULE (SUBJECT TO FINAL NEGOTIATION)

The following deliverables will be provided in both electronic and print formats, and must be approved by the COTR. Project Management Plan (no-later-than January 8, 2013, and updated for the Requirements Review, System Design Review and Production Readiness Review) per Smithsonian template, Attachment 5.4. In addition, the Contractor will create, with input from Lemelson Center staff, maintain, and share with the Lemelson Center a Microsoft Project Plan of the key milestones and progress being made against them. Content & Architecture Analysis Report (no-later-than February 19, 2013) A Smithsonian template is not available, contractor should write the report such that is satisfies the requirement specified in Section 2.3. Combined Requirements, High-Level Architecture and Design Document, per the approved project plan using the Smithsonian template, Attachment 5.5, no-later-than March 19, 2013. The initial submission will be in preparation for the Requirements Review, with updates for the System Design Review and Production Readiness Review. First prototype of site structure and content management system (no-later-than April 23, 2012). Master Test Plan (no-later-than May 7, 2013, and then updated with test results within 15 working days after completion of the test). A Smithsonian template is not available; contractor should write the report such that is satisfies the requirement specified in Section 2.6.1. Revised site structure and content management system, based on Lemelson Center feedback (no-later-than June 28, 2013) Soft launch and internal testing completed no-later-than August 13, 2013. System Configuration Report (at commencement of acceptance testing, no-later-than September 17, 2013). A Smithsonian template is not available; contractor should write the report such that is satisfies the requirement specified in Section 2.6.3. All training materials (no-later-than September 30, 2013). All source and executable code (no-later-than September 30, 2013). All software licenses needed to operate and maintain the site will be transferred to the Smithsonian (no-later-than September 30, 2013). All tools needed to maintain the final website delivered to the Smithsonian (no-later-than September 30, 2013). All templates for this website that are posted to production environment (no-later-than September 30, 2013). Maintenance period concludes March 31, 2014.
DOCUMENTATION, TRAINING AND KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER Training and knowledge transfer in a small group environment by the contractor for 5 Web practitioners on how to use the features on the new Lemelson Center website. Training will be conducted in Washington, D.C., and the Smithsonian will provide the room and computers as needed. The contractor must identify in the Project Plan any special training requirements. The Smithsonian will videotape and may also webcast the training for Smithsonian staff who were not able to attend the training in person. The Smithsonian will bear the costs and

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 33 of 96

responsibility for the videotaping, and the Contractor personnel will need to sign all required waivers to permit such use. INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

The Contractor is required to provide the original report or deliverable to the COTR. Deliverables will be accepted or rejected by the COTR. All deliverables shall be of an acceptable quality addressing the requirements clearly and professionally. All reports, documents, and narrative-type deliverables (except as specified within an individual task order) shall be submitted in draft and final form, in both hard copy and electronic file format. Unless otherwise specified in task orders, the Smithsonian will have fifteen (15) working days to determine the acceptability of all completed draft deliverables. Any deficiencies shall then be corrected by the contractor and incorporated into the final deliverable within five (5) working days. The Smithsonian will have five (5) working days to determine the acceptability of completed final deliverables. The contractor shall correct deficiencies in final deliverables within five (5) working days. If the draft deliverable is adequate, the Smithsonian will accept the draft and provide comments for incorporation into the final version. All of the Smithsonian's comments to deliverables must either be incorporated in the succeeding version or the contractor must demonstrate to Smithsonian's satisfaction why such comments should not be incorporated. If the draft deliverable is not adequate, the Smithsonian will reject the draft with a general explanation of the deficiencies. If the Smithsonian finds that a draft written deliverable does not contain the appropriate cover statement, Proprietary or Sensitive Material, the document will be immediately rejected without further review and returned to the contractor for correction and resubmission. The Smithsonian will not reimburse such corrections. Further, if the Smithsonian finds that a draft written deliverable contains spelling errors, grammatical errors, improper format, or otherwise does not conform to contractual requirements, the Smithsonian reserves the right to immediately reject the document without further review and return the document to the Contractor for correction and resubmission. Deliverables, both hardcopy and software, will be accepted when all discrepancies, errors, or other deficiencies have been resolved to the Smithsonian's satisfaction. All notifications of rejection will be accompanied by specific justification or substantiation of the reason(s) for rejection.
Management Requirements TECHNICAL REVIEW The Contractor and the Smithsonian Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will jointly present a briefing to the Smithsonian Technical Review Board (TRB): Requirements Review, System Design Review and Production Readiness Review. In coordination with the Smithsonian COTR, the Contractor will revise the requirements as

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 34 of 96

requested by the TRB. CONTRACTING OFFICERS TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE

The Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) for this contract shall be: Jeffrey Brodie, Deputy Director Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation National Museum of American History, Rm 334, MRC 604 Smithsonian Institution P.O. Box 37012 Washington, DC 20013-7012 202.633.3332 brodiej@si.edu
KEY PERSONNEL AND LEVEL OF EXPERTISE

All Vendor personnel assigned to this contract are subject to Smithsonian Institution review. The Vendor shall assign contract personnel whose resumes are approved by the COTR. The COTR shall receive, review, and approve the resumes of ALL personnel, including sub-contractors and specialized consultants that may be proposed as replacement personnel by the Vendor. All proposed substitutes shall meet or exceed the qualifications of the person to be replaced. The Contracting Officer shall be notified in writing of any proposed substitution at least thirty (30) days in advance of the proposed substitution. The notification shall include: ˇ Explanation of the circumstances necessitating the substitution, ˇ Complete resume of proposed substitute, ˇ Any other information requested by the Contracting Officer to enable him/her to judge whether or not the Contractor is maintaining the same high quality of personnel that provided the partial basis of award. The COTR and the Product Assurance Manager shall be notified immediately when an employee of the Vendor will no longer be working under this contract. The Vendor Project Manager will collect and inventory all Smithsonian property issued to the employee, including ID badge, and turn all Smithsonian property over to the SPA Manager. Vendor personnel found unacceptable by the Smithsonian at any time shall be removed from performing under this contract. The COTR shall deliver such notification in writing to the Vendor. All Vendor personnel, including, but not limited to key personnel, who interface with SI management and technical personnel must have excellent oral and written communication skills. "Excellent oral and written communication skills" is defined as the capability to converse fluently, communicate effectively, and write intelligibly in the English language.
LOCATION

Workshops, training sessions and meetings shall take place in Smithsonian offices in downtown Washington, D.C. Though it is critical for the vendor team to be onsite for workshops and key presentations, in the interest of containing costs the Lemelson

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 35 of 96

Center will consider proposals that utilize the Smithsonian's online meeting and videoconferencing capabilities for other types of meetings.
TRAVEL

Travel expenses are NOT covered under this contract.
ACCESS TO SI'S COMPUTER / DATA NETWORK

If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Vendor personnel and/or representatives may be given a network logon account and access to the Smithsonian's computer / data network. In order to gain access to the Smithsonian's computer network, Vendor personnel will be required to read Smithsonian Directive 931 "Use of Computers and Networks", the "Rules of the Road for Users of Smithsonian Computers and Networks" (which are derived from SD 931), and sign an affirmation that they agree to comply with the provisions of SD 931, to act in a responsible manner, and to respect and maintain the security of all systems to which they have access. All Vendor personnel with network access are required to complete a short on-line computer security training program annually. Vendor personnel with SI network access are required to obtain an SI Security Credential (badge).
SECURITY CREDENTIALS

The Vendor shall abide by the rules, regulations and security requirements established by the Smithsonian. If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Vendor personnel and/or representatives may be issued passes or visitor identification enabling such persons to enter and access Smithsonian properties and/or the Smithsonian's computer network. Such passes or other identification will be issued only to persons meeting reasonable security criteria applicable to the properties and/or tasks being performed. The Smithsonian reserves the right to fingerprint Vendors or other persons obtaining security credentials (i.e., badges) and/or conduct background checks for security purposes. The Smithsonian shall be entitled, in its sole discretion and without liability, to immediately remove or terminate the access rights of any of the Vendor's personnel and/or representatives. The Smithsonian will promptly notify the Vendor of any such removal or termination and the basis for the revocation of access rights. Such pass or identification card shall be surrendered immediately at any time upon demand by the Smithsonian, upon completion of a task or service, or upon termination of this Agreement or tasks under it.
Exhibits and Attachments: SMITHSONIAN WEB AND NEW MEDIA STRATEGY ONLINE AT HTTP://SMITHSONIAN-WEBSTRATEGY.WIKISPACES.COM SMITHSONIAN 2.0 CONFERENCE, HTTP://SMITHSONIAN20.SI.EDU SMITHSONIAN WEB TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS SMITHSONIAN PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN TEMPLATE SMITHSONIAN COMBINED REQUIREMENTS, HIGH LEVEL ARCHITECTURE, AND DESIGN PLAN TEMPLATE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION STRATEGIC PLAN EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, HTTP://WWW.SI.EDU/ABOUT/POLICIES

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 36 of 96

SMITHSONIAN WEB TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 37 of 96

Technology
All development work produced under contracts or otherwise must conform to the Smithsonian's high level system architecture(s), centrally supported web infrastructure, security infrastructure, and comply with the Smithsonian's Technology Reference Model (TRM), SD-940-01. Typically, larger web projects or projects that might require newer or alternative support requirements are also subject to review through the OCIO Technical Review Board (TRB). For guidance on the TRB process, consult with the System Architecture and Product Assurance division. The Smithsonian has a central web delivery infrastructure that is supported by the Office of the Chief Information Officer's Web Services Division and provided to all SI museums / units. Smithsonian Directive, SD-950, Management of the Smithsonian Web addresses the policies and procedures required to ensure the integrity of our content, reliability of our Web infrastructure, and usability of our websites while protecting the privacy of our visitors and the reputation of the Institution through proper Web management practices. The infrastructures is Windows / Intelbased and consists of staging / content management servers, SQL database servers, loadbalanced web / web application servers, reporting, and search servers. ˇ Staging / Content Management: SI uses a central staging ­ deployment model under which ALL site files are copied by the site manager to a staging / content management server that sits within SI's internal network. This internal "master" copy of the site is deployed to loadbalanced sets of web / web application servers that reside within SI's DMZ. All file content must be deployed via this staging ­ deployment infrastructure. The Smithsonian uses Interwoven's TeamSite v. 7.2.1 web content management system which is centrally funded and supported. Museums and organizations are given their own dedicated branch and workareas in which to maintain their sites. TeamSite automatically provides versioning and the ability to create snap-shot editions of sites at given points in time. TeamSite also includes rich templating functionality which may or may not be used in a site's design. If a site design includes content management functionality, TeamSite must be used. No separate COTS or independently developed CM systems are allowed. Databases: SI's web database server environment is made up primarily of Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Enterprise Edition servers running on 64 bit Windows Server 2008 in a clustered environment. The use of MS Access databases is not permitted within SI's web infrastructure, though Access may be used for development purposes before being migrated to SQL Server. ˇ Web / Web Application Servers: SI's Web Services Division currently supported web / web application servers are 64 Bit Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition running IIS 7.5. ASP / ASP.NET, and ActivePERL are supported. WSD supports both shared and dedicated hosting models. The majority of current SI sites reside on shared servers. SI desires to migrate to a situation where the sites of the larger organizations reside on dedicated servers. All web servers are deployed in load-balanced sets behind a pair of Cisco content switches. This means that each web site is duplicated and served by two or more servers. The content switch(es) provides load-balancing and session management so this is invisible to the end user. This configuration provides complete, live redundancy and allows a server to be taken off-line for maintenance without bringing the site down.

ˇ

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 38 of 96

Should site traffic increase to a point where performance is affected, additional servers can be added to the set to handle the additional load. No direct logon on to the web servers is permitted. All file changes must be deployed via the staging infrastructure. SI's Intranet websites are served from servers located within a DMZ subnet that are logically and physically separate from SI's Intranet web servers. ColdFusion 9 are supported within the above infrastructure along with ASP / ASP.NET Versions: 1.1 through 4.0 plus Microsoft AJAX Extensions for ASP.NET 2.0 and PHP 5.3.5. ˇ Drupal/WordPress Applications on LAMP Servers: Since December 2010, SI's SAPA Division started to support Drupal/WordPress applications on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) common platform servers which are 64 Bit Intel Server. WSD supports both Drupal 6.27 and 7.14 as well as WordPress 3.3.2 applications. The Drupal and WordPress sites reside on virtual LAMP servers and depending on the version and units needs. Reporting: SI's Web Services Division provides WebTrends 9.2 reporting for unit website statistics using logs files and also SDC (SmartSource Data Collector) Search: Since May 2010, SI has operated a Google GB-9009 Enterprise Search Appliance cluster that is centrally maintained by SI's Web Services Division (WSD) for search within SI public websites. This Google appliance is made available to all SI unit public web sites for setup of site-specific collections / sub-collections (views) using normal crawls. There is no charge for common .html and dynamic websites. However, museums / units with extremely large data-driven sites (e.g. those generating 100,000 + search records) will be required to fund the acquisition of additional search licenses in order to have their sites indexed by the appliance. Internal (non-public) site search functionality is provided by a smaller, separate Google GB-7007 Enterprise Search Appliance, also managed by WSD. WSD will provide assistance to units for the creation and generation of site maps for their dynamic content.

ˇ ˇ

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 39 of 96

SMITHSONIAN PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN TEMPLATE

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 40 of 96

Project Name LCM Documentation
Project Management Plan
(Initiation Phase)

Version XX Date

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan
Table of Contents
Revision History........................................................................................................................................................... 42   1   Project Summary................................................................................................................................................... 42  

2  

3   4   5   6   7   8  

9  

Document Purpose............................................................................................................ 42   Project Title ...................................................................................................................... 42   Business Need / Problem.................................................................................................. 42   Project Goals and Objectives and Performance Measures ............................................... 42   Project Approach .............................................................................................................. 43   Project Dependencies / Constraints .................................................................................. 43   TRB Deliverables ............................................................................................................. 43   Project Team Structure.......................................................................................................................................... 44   2.1   Project Team..................................................................................................................... 44   2.2   Project Stakeholders ......................................................................................................... 44   Project Plan/ Work Breakdown Structure ............................................................................................................. 45   Risk Factors and Assumptions .............................................................................................................................. 46   Training ................................................................................................................................................................. 46   Communication ..................................................................................................................................................... 46   Abbreviations and Acronyms................................................................................................................................ 47   Appendix - Resource Requirements ..................................................................................................................... 48   8.1   Funding............................................................................................................................. 48   8.2   Staffing ............................................................................................................................. 48   8.3   Equipment and Facilities .................................................................................................. 49   Acquisitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 51  

1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7  

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 41 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan
Revision History Version Date

Event/Description

Responsible Party

Project Summary DOCUMENT PURPOSE A Project Management Plan defines the approach to be used for implementing a project. It documents assumptions and decisions regarding communication, management processes, execution and overall project control. The ultimate purpose of the Project Management Plan is to define the roles, responsibilities, procedures and processes that will result in the project being managed such that it is completed on-time, within budget, and with the highest degree of quality. Where issues arise, the Project Management Plan will help with risk mitigation and where necessary, revised timelines and budgets.

PROJECT TITLE Insert project name.

BUSINESS NEED / PROBLEM Briefly describe the reason(s) for the project being supported and funded.

PROJECT GOALS AND OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES Project Goals are general directions, stated at a high level, and usually for the long term. They are the purpose toward which an endeavor is directed. Project Objectives are something that a project's efforts or actions are intended to attain or accomplish. They represent an output or a target, tend to be stated in the short term, and are both specific and measurable. A project's objectives tie back to the [broader] project goals. They are elaborated in the form of Requirements. Project Performance Measures are intended results that will be achieved upon the project's completion. They are inline with the associated objectives. The performance measures must be measurable results with concrete boundaries. (Complete the table below)
Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 42 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan
Table 1.4.A Goals, Objectives and Performance Measures GOAL OBJECTIVE MEASURES

PROJECT APPROACH Discuss how the project will move forward. This can include specifics about implementation planning as well as details about the approach for implementation. In this section include any planned deviations and/or waivers and sufficient supporting information or reference to supporting information. PROJECT DEPENDENCIES / CONSTRAINTS This section should detail all known dependencies and constraints. If mitigation strategies exist, briefly state how any risk will be mitigated.

TRB DELIVERABLES Below are the documents required according to tailoring agreement. If you are working on a large project, complete all information on the table for Due Date, and Date Delivered. Ensure updates are made when deliverables are completed. Table 1.7.A Goals, Objectives and Performance Measures Deliverable Name Due Date Date Delivered
TRB Tailoring Agreement Informational Briefing Please list all deliverables and the associated information required for this review as determined by the tailoring agreement. Requirements Review Please list all deliverables and the associated information required for this review as determined by the tailoring agreement. Detailed Analysis and Design Review Please list all deliverables and the associated information required for this review as determined by the tailoring agreement. Production Readiness Review Please list all deliverables and the associated information Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 43 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan
required for this review as determined by the tailoring agreement. Post Implementation Review

Project Team Structure This section provides a description of the project's organizational structure and team responsibilities. Insert an organizational structure diagram, or a table with the team and their titles. PROJECT TEAM List the project sponsor for the project. Include a list of all critical team participants and their associated responsibilities. Ensure you describe the project management office and key players as well as any contractors. Populate the table below to include in this section. The table below summarizes individual roles and contact information. Table 2.1.A Project Contacts and Their Roles Project Title Project Manager Executive Sponsor etc PROJECT STAKEHOLDERS List the project stakeholders in the table provided. Keep in mind that a stakeholder can be a group of people. Table 2.2.A Project Stakeholders Stakeholder Vested Interest in the Project Description of Role Name Contact Information

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 44 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan

Project Plan/ Work Breakdown Structure Insert your project plan into the space below. Ensure your plan has captured due dates for each, individual task, milestone activities and where appropriate dependencies and responsible resources. Include either a version number or date created in reference to the plan so that stakeholders and readers have the most accurate information about the project plan version they are reading.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 45 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan

Risk Factors and Assumptions Populate and update the table below with known risks and their resolutions. Area of Risk Description Table 6.A. Potential Risks Probability of Strategy for Mitigation Occurrence Current Status

Training Clearly lay out intended training and including trainees (list type of resources and number of each type of student), training needs for each type of trainee, costs for associated training, intended trainers, and planned time for training in association with implementation project plan. If this exists in a training plan please leverage what has already been created and reference that document. .

Communication Please complete the table below as an illustration of intended communications ­ examples are provided, please delete those rows before completing the table. Be sure to include project status reports and other required tools for communicating status, issues, resolution, etc. If something similar to the below table exists in a communication plan already created, please leverage that information and reference that document.. Below is a table of known communications. Audience/ Stakeholder ITMC Users Table 8.A. Communication Mechanisms Start & Vehicle Purpose Frequency Presentation Update on project At project Status milestones Email Provide One time- one information month prior to regarding training training

Communicator (NAME) (NAME)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 46 of 96

(Project Name) ­ Project Management Plan
Abbreviations and Acronyms Include a table with any acronyms and abbreviations used within the document.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 47 of 96

Appendix - Resource Requirements
This section should identify all project funding, staffing, equipment, facilities, testing, and training requirements.

FUNDING The following are identified project costs by fiscal year. Populate and update the table below. Include additional details below the table if desired. Table 8.1.A Project Costs by Fiscal Year
Fiscal Year Planning Development Maintenance TOTAL

TOTALS:

STAFFING The following table summarizes estimated staff, both in-house and contractor, by fiscal year and associated task. Populate and update the table below. Include additional details below the table if desired. Table 8.2.A Project Staffing by Fiscal Year
Planning
Contractor

Development
Contractor

Maintenance
Contractor

TOTAL
Contractor

In-House

In-House

In-House

TOTALS:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 48 of 96

In-House

Fiscal Year

EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES The following table summarizes estimated equipment and facilities costs by fiscal year. Facilities costs are for those modifications incidental to support the project. (e.g., upgrades to the development lab, or creation of a test lab). Populate and update the tables below. Include additional details below the table if desired. Table 8.3.A Project Hardware Costs
Fiscal Year HW Purchase Type (Description) Initial Cost Installation Maintenance TOTAL

TOTALS:

Table 8.3.B Project Software Costs
Fiscal Year SW Purchase Type (Description) Initial Cost License(s) Upgrade(s) TOTAL

TOTALS:

Table 8.3.C Project Software Development Tools Costs
Fiscal Year Description/Name of Tool Initial Cost License(s) Upgrade(s) TOTAL

TOTALS:

Table 8.3.D Costs of Operating Supplies
Fiscal Year Description of Supply Costs

TOTALS:

Table 8.3.E Total Project Costs by Fiscal Year
Fiscal Total Total Total SW Total Total Total TOTAL

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 49 of 96

Year

Hardware Costs

Software Costs

Development Tools

Operating Supplies

Training Costs

Testing Costs

COSTS

TOTALS:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 50 of 96

Acquisitions This section should summarize the acquisition strategy of the project, identify the resources that must be contractually acquired, list the types of contracts needed, and the major contractual features required. Include information regarding project funding. Ensure one time and recurring costs are included. State the source for the funding. Reference other documents where details can be found if appropriate. The following contracts will be used to support this project. Populate and update the table below. Table 9.A. Contract Information Contract # Contractor Point of Contact Type of Contract and POP

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 51 of 96

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 52 of 96

SMITHSONIAN COMBINED REQUIREMENTS, HIGH LEVEL ARCHITECTURE, AND DESIGN PLAN TEMPLATE

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 53 of 96

Project Name LCM Documentation
Requirements, High-Level Architecture and Design
(Requirements and Design Phase)

Version XX Date

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 54 of 96

Table of Contents
Revision History........................................................................................................................................................... 55 1 Document Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 55 2 Background .......................................................................................................................................................... 55 3 Functional Requirements and Constraints............................................................................................................ 55

3.1 3.2 3.3
3.3.1 3.3.2 3.3.3
4 5

Requirements ................................................................................................................ 55 Constraints .................................................................................................................... 56 Product Evaluation........................................................................................................ 56
Products Considered............................................................................................... 56 Fit Gap Analysis ...................................................................................................... 56 Recommendation .................................................................................................... 57

Technical Approach ............................................................................................................................................. 57 High Level Architecture....................................................................................................................................... 57

5.1 5.2
6

As-Is Architecture......................................................................................................... 57 To-Be Architecture ....................................................................................................... 57 Design Approach .......................................................................................................... 57 Functions to be Implemented........................................................................................ 57 Software Architecture ................................................................................................... 58 Hardware Architecture.................................................................................................. 58 System Interfaces .......................................................................................................... 58 User Interfaces .............................................................................................................. 58 System Planned Usage and Performance Measures ..................................................... 58 System Administration.................................................................................................. 58 Backup and Recovery ................................................................................................... 58 Data Requirements Statement....................................................................................... 58 Data Security / Sensitivity ............................................................................................ 58 Data Sharing.................................................................................................................. 58 Data Volumes................................................................................................................ 58 Legacy Data .................................................................................................................. 59 Data Stewardship .......................................................................................................... 59 Data Model.................................................................................................................... 59 Data Element Definition ............................................................................................... 59 Data Migration Strategy................................................................................................ 59 Data Disposition............................................................................................................ 59 Abbreviations and Acronyms ....................................................................................... 60 Associated Documentation and References.................................................................. 60

Design................................................................................................................................................................... 57

6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.8 6.9
7

Data Management ................................................................................................................................................ 58

7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.7 7.8 7.9 7.10
8

Appendix/Reference............................................................................................................................................. 60

8.1 8.2

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 55 of 96

Revision History Version Date

Event/Description

Responsible Party

Document Purpose This document provides the Functional Requirements and Constraints, High-Level Architecture, Data Management and Detailed Design Specifications for the (NAME) project. It has been drafted as part of the Smithsonian Institution's system development life cycle management (SDLCM) processes for small to medium sized system implementation projects and should be viewed in conjunction with other SDLCM / project documentation. Background This section provides a description of the purpose of the project including background information leading to its inception. Leverage information already created to complete this section. It is intended to help readers that may not have prior knowledge of the project.

Functional Requirements and Constraints This section details the functional requirements and constraints identified for the project. Use the following abbreviations and definitions to complete the tables within this section (Section 3) below: For the column titled "Priority": M Mandatory D Desirable For the column titled "Status": P Proposed A Approved X Deleted D Deferred

REQUIREMENTS Populate the table below. The bold heading sections are examples of how it can be formulated. Feel free to organize it as is appropriate for your project. Table 3.1.A Requirements

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 56 of 96

#

Requirement
Functionality

Phase Scheduled

Priority

Status

Comment

etc Interfaces 3 4 Administration Security

CONSTRAINTS The system shall be developed within the following constraints. Populate table 3.2.A # Table 3.2.A Constraints Phase Priority Scheduled

Constraint

Status

Comment

PRODUCT EVALUATION For COTS product implementations include a description of the products considered, the product chosen and the reasons the product was chosen. Products Considered Address the major considerations in the selection process. Fit Gap Analysis Provide a summary of the fit-gap analysis process. Table 3.3.2.A High-Level Ranking No. High Level Requirements Product 1 Product 2 Product 3 1 2 Legend: 3-- Product with the highest number of fits for the given high level category. 2 - Product with the second highest number of fits for the given high level category.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 57 of 96

1 -- Product with the lowest number of fits for the given high level category. 0 -- Product had no fits. Table 3.3.2.B Percentage Ranking % of Categories % of Categories Where the SW Where the SW Ranked Highest Ranked Lowest

No. 1 2 3 Product 1 Product 2 Product 3

Software

Recommendation Include the reasons the specific product was selected. Technical Approach This section defines the approach used to identify and select components (hardware and software) that will make up the AIS or IT infrastructure system. The technical approach also identifies constraints imposed on the system by other systems (e.g., commercial software, data elements, network), Smithsonian or applicable Federal policies, organization mission-related process requirements, and the IT Infrastructure. High Level Architecture This section illustrates the current (as-is) environment and the planned to-be environment and discuses the major differences. AS-IS ARCHITECTURE Input a diagram depicting the current environment. Point out specific troubling areas if needed. TO-BE ARCHITECTURE Input a diagram depicting the future environment. Point out specific areas that make a significant change/improvement as a result of the project.

Design DESIGN APPROACH FUNCTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED Include information about functionality, output files, reports, etc.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 58 of 96

SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE HARDWARE ARCHITECTURE SYSTEM INTERFACES Describe known interfaces. FOR EACH INTERFACE: Include the purpose, functionality, high level requirements, plan for development and impact on implementation. USER INTERFACES Describe how users will access the system. Include network information. Also include details on the access levels (if applicable). SYSTEM PLANNED USAGE AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES List the anticipated system usage by user group (if applicable). Also include known performance measures that the system will adhere to. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION Explain, in detail, how the system will be administered. BACKUP AND RECOVERY

Data Management DATA REQUIREMENTS STATEMENT Explain what data will be stored, processed and accessed through the system. DATA SECURITY / SENSITIVITY Describe the type of data that will be stored on the system, including its relative sensitivity. Include details of the actions taken to ensure that the information is secure (where necessary) and will remain secure. Reference existing documents if necessary. DATA SHARING Include a high level statement of any planned data interfaces. Include a diagram if applicable. DATA VOLUMES Estimate the data volume for the database and expected increase to volume by phases/years/etc.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 59 of 96

LEGACY DATA List the legacy databases that will be converted in this project (where applicable). DATA STEWARDSHIP Identify the data owner for this system. This may be an individual or a group. DATA MODEL Include the Logical data model in the form of an Entity Relationship Diagram or a Class Diagram. DATA ELEMENT DEFINITION Provide a table with the following data requirements included; Primary keys, foreign keys, Entity Name and Definition, Data Element Name and Definition, constraints and restrictions on use, data types and size, null value allowed, default values, valid values and validation rules, and source of data element (if data sharing applies). Entity Name Data Element Name Table 7.8.A Definition of Data Elements Entity Definition Definition Data Type/Format

Required

DATA MIGRATION STRATEGY Include the data migration strategy here. The data migration strategy should contain for each data source to be converted: Data source name Data source type Conversion procedure Data element mappings Data transformation Instructions for handling rejected data Instructions for handling rejected data Instructions for handling illegal data values DATA DISPOSITION Describe any plans to archive based on the electronic records retention schedule or pass to another database the data sets in the database.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 60 of 96

Appendix/Reference ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS Include a table of all abbreviations and/or acronyms used. ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTATION AND REFERENCES Include references if used in the document.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 61 of 96

PART III: PROPOSED CONTRACT In the Event of an Award
A. AWARD DOCUMENT B. SUPPLIES/SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS B.1 Unless otherwise specified in the attached award, Contractor shall perform all professional services for the development and production of the website and provide all deliverables set forth in Section C and elsewhere in this solicitation for a firm fixed Contract price of [ADD AMOUNT]: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the final firm-fixed Contract price shall be determined by Smithsonian, in its sole discretion, and stated on the attached award in Section A of this Contract. B.1.2. This firm-fixed Contract price shall include, but not be limited to, all direct labor, materials, and other direct costs (i.e. communication, reproduction, etc.) as well as all indirect costs (overhead and G&A expenses), travel and per diem, communication, delivery, subcontractor costs, commissions, and any other profit and expenses for which the Contractor expects payment. B.2 Travel and Per Diem

B.2.1 Contractor's firm fixed price shall include transportation costs and travel allowances (per diem) of personnel authorized to undertake out-of-town, overnight travel under this contract, if applicable. Such transportation costs WILL NOT be reimbursed separately. B.2.2 No profit or fee shall be included on travel and per diem expenses included in the firm fixed price. C. STATEMENT OF WORK AND DELIVERABLES Section C - Description/Specifications C.1 Scope of Work. Contractor shall provide all services, including functional and nonfunctional requirements, design and development, necessary to redesign the Lemelson Center ("Website") as outlined in the attached Statement of Work, Lemelson Center Website Redesign, Smithsonian Institution, National Museum American History, dated October 1, 2012 ("SOW") in accordance with the Schedule of Deliverables ("SOD"), specified in Section F.1.1 below, to Smithsonian's satisfaction (collectively, "Services"). C.1.1 User Training. Contractor shall provide the Smithsonian and their appropriate subcontractors with one (1) two (2) to three (3) hour training session covering the basics of the application and its maintenance and organization.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 62 of 96

C.2

GeneralRequirements

C.2.1 The Contractor shall work closely with the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative ("COTR") and relevant Smithsonian staff to provide the Services, as well as further identify user scenarios, refine and define the ultimate project goals and requirements, and any other related services the Smithsonian may deem necessary. C.2.2 Performance of the Services in accordance with the SOD shall be subject to the Smithsonian's satisfaction and final written approval. C.2.4 Contractor shall provide Smithsonian with a complete copy of the final application and Deliverables including all source files, including high-resolution (non-derivative), all documentation, and source code. Contractor shall also furnish Smithsonian with (i) unlimited access and the unlimited right to use to the code repository, ensuring that the Smithsonian has the most recent versions of the source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language and assembly language forms of the Website; (ii) all original Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator or other graphics files, xthml, dhtml, CSS, cfm, html files, complete Java or Javascript code, Adobe Flash, director, animation or other scripts and production files, if any; and (iii) all other work product as defined herein. If Contractor corrects any defects in, or revises all or any portion of the Deliverables Contractor shall simultaneously furnish Smithsonian with notice of and access to and the unlimited right to use the revised source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language and assembly language forms of the Deliverables in the code repository. C.3 Non-Functional Requirements C.3.1 Smithsonian's Technology Reference Model. All Deliverables produced under this Contract shall conform to the Smithsonian's high level system architecture(s), centrally supported web infrastructure, security infrastructure, and comply with the Smithsonian's Technology Reference Model (TRM), IT-940-01. (See Attachment J.2). C.3.2 Test Procedures and Test Results. Before the Deliverables is moved to a production environment it must successfully pass security and performance testing. C.3.2.1 Security Testing. Prior to acceptance, the Deliverables shall be placed in a test environment where it can be subjected to a series of web security tests under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Information Technology Security Staff. OCIO uses the SPI Dynamics WebInspect product suite for its testing. This product performs aggressive security testing of web applications and attempts to identify areas in which the Deliverables is not secure. The testing process will inject data into the test database. If Contractor wishes to use a different tool for security testing, the testing tool and method must be approved in advance by the Smithsonian's Computer Security Manager. Any accepted site or application must pass security testing. Any flaws identified must be fixed or mitigated prior to production deployment. The Contractor is strongly encouraged to perform their own security testing on any products before submitting their code for formal pre-deployment testing. Note:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 63 of 96

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) provides a list of additional vulnerability scanning tools in NIST Special Publication 800-44, Guidelines on Securing Public Web Servers. Where user authentication is part of the Deliverables, an additional authentication review by OCIO is required to determine the appropriate authentication method. The Smithsonian OCIO and Contractor will enter into a separate MOU addressing any necessary prelaunch security scan of the Deliverables, said MOU will be attached hereto and incorporated herein by separate written amendment to this Contract.
C.3.2.2 PERFORMANCE TESTING. PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE, THE PARTIES SHALL LOAD STRESS TEST ALL DELIVERABLES IN ACCORDANCE WITH PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS. BASED ON THE RESULTS OF THE TESTING, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ALTER THE DELIVERABLES TO COMPLY WITH THE STANDARDS AS DIRECTED BY THE CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE ("COTR") PRIOR TO PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENT. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE TEST RESULTS
SHOWING SUCCESSFUL TESTING OF ALL CRITICAL FUNCTIONALITIES AND OUTLINING DISCREPANCIES IDENTIFIED DURING TESTING.

C.3.2.3 Test Procedures Document. The finished Deliverables shall be tested to verify that it functions as intended and that all requirements set forth herein are met. Contractor shall provide a test procedures document ("TPD") which shall include: ˇ How testing will be used to ensure that the Deliverables meet the Smithsonian's requirements and functions as designed; ˇ What will be tested; ˇ How testing will be performed; ˇ "Pass"/"Fail" criteria; ˇ Test deliverables (e.g. test report, including discrepancies identified during testing); ˇ Test scripts (procedures); and ˇ Test environment. C.3.2.4 The intent of the TPD is to describe and provide a test framework and set of test steps that can be re-executed by the developer to validate functionality and support for acceptance criteria for those changes that are made by Smithsonian, at its option, for acceptance purposes. Contractor shall provide test results showing successful testing of all critical functionality (e.g. test reports, including discrepancies identified during testing C.3.3 System Configuration. Contractor shall provide a System Configuration Document ("SCD") written for the target audience of mobile/web application administrator(s). The SCD shall be concise, detailed, and contain information on how the site is installed and configured on the web/web application servers, including any and all required web server settings, database connection methods and connection strings, and any initialization file(s) or other critical files. Should the Deliverables files be moved to different servers or a different file location in the current environment, it should be possible for a central Smithsonian system administrator, who is not familiar with the Deliverables, to reference the SCD and have all the information necessary to get it functioning and then use the TPD and test spec/test scripts to validate. C.3.4 Best Practices. All code shall be annotated according to software engineering best practices; and shall conform to security best practices, e.g., preventing cross-site scripting, SQL injection, etc. C.3.5 Accommodations. Reasonable effort shall be made to accommodate users with visual, hearing, or mobility impairments, and other disabilities. To this end Contractor shall ensure that

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 64 of 96

the following minimum standards are met. Smithsonian must approve any exceptions to these standards in writing: ˇ All images shall have properly coded "alt" tags. Text shall employ adequate contrast and size for readability. ˇ Contractor shall avoid superimposing text over background images. ˇ The line length for blocks of text should stay in the 55-75 character range. ˇ Good faith efforts should be made to meet all other accessibility standards set forth in Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (§ 1194.22) and the W3C priority 1, 2, and 3 checkpoints for web content accessibility. ˇ Smithsonian must approve any exceptions to these standards. C.5 Additional Information C.5.1 Access To Smithsonian's Computer / Data Network. If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Contractor personnel and/or representatives may be given a network logon account and access to the Smithsonian's computer / data network. In order to gain access to Smithsonian's computer network, Contractor personnel will be required to read Smithsonian Directive 931 "Use of Computers and Networks", the "Rules of the Road for Users of Smithsonian Computers and Networks" (which are derived from SD 931), and sign an affirmation that they agree to comply with the provisions of SD 931, to act in a responsible manner, and to respect and maintain the security of all systems to which they have access. All Contractor personnel with network access are required to complete a short on-line computer security training program annually. Contractor personnel with Smithsonian network access are required to obtain a Smithsonian Security Credential (badge). C.5.2 Security Credentials. Contractor shall abide by the rules, regulations and security requirements established by the Smithsonian. If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Contractor personnel and/or representatives may be issued passes or visitor identification enabling such persons to enter and access Smithsonian properties and/or the Smithsonian's computer network. Such passes or other identification will be issued only to persons meeting reasonable security criteria applicable to the properties and/or tasks being performed. The Smithsonian reserves the right to fingerprint Contractors or other persons obtaining security credentials (i.e., badges) and/or conduct background checks for security purposes. Smithsonian shall be entitled, in its sole discretion and without liability, to immediately remove or terminate the access rights of any of Contractor's personnel and/or representatives. Smithsonian will promptly notify Contractor of any such removal or termination and the basis for the revocation of access rights. Such pass or identification cards shall be surrendered immediately at any time upon demand by the Smithsonian; and also upon the expiration or termination of this Contract. C.6 General C.6.1 During the performance of the work, the Contractor shall keep in close liaison with the Smithsonian COTR. The Contractor shall also keep written records of all significant telephone conversations, meetings, or discussions between the Contractor, and any organization contacted concerning this project. C.6.2 Other than where specifically noted herein, the Smithsonian staff will only be present to the extent necessary to provide project coordination, and to observe and review the progress of the project. The Smithsonian will review for approval all relevant Deliverables.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 65 of 96

C.6.3 Smithsonian reviews and approval shall not relieve the Contractor of professional liability or conformance with the Scope of Work. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and all facets of the final Deliverables. This responsibility remains with the Contractor until the final Deliverable has been delivered and completed to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian, ensuring thereby that all documents have been submitted, and all claims are resolved. C.6.4 Contractor must make its relevant staff and/or subcontractors available for all required team meetings and design reviews via teleconference. Contractor is not expected to travel to the Smithsonian for purposes of such meetings. C.6.5 Contractor must immediately notify the COTR and the Smithsonian Contracting Officer of any problem, unexpected occurrence, or delay in the process of the Contracted work. C.6.6 Contractor must work cooperatively with any collaborating Smithsonian staff and with any other Contractors and vendors whose activities may be functioning in concert with the efforts of this project in order to ensure that all elements of the project work together efficiently and safely with all components compiled, produced and/or installed by the Contractor. Contractor shall be solely responsible for coordinating and managing its key personnel and subcontractors. C.7 Correlation and Intent. Any omissions herein of such words and phrases as "the Contractor shall", "the Contractor shall", "shall be", "shall consist of", "in accordance with", "shall", "and", "the", etc., are intentional. Such words and phrases shall be supplied by implication. Whenever the words "necessary", "proper", or words of like effect are used herein with respect to the extent, conduct, or character of work required, they shall mean that the said work shall be carried to the extent, must be conducted in a manner, or be of a character that is "necessary" or "proper" under the circumstances, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer's judgment in such matters shall be considered final. C.8 APPLICABILITY OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION DIRECTIVES AND POLICY. All services and the Products produced hereunder shall be in full compliance with and conform to all Smithsonian Directives and Policies including without limitation the following: ˇ Smithsonian Directive (SD) 950 ­ Web Management ˇ IT-950-TN01 ­ Web Copyright & Privacy Notices ˇ IT-950-TN02 ­ Internet Domain Names ˇ IT-950-TN03 ­ Public FTP Server Accounts ˇ IT-950-TN04- Public Website & Web-Based Deliverables Developments ˇ SD 940 Acquisition of Information Technology Products C. 9. Information on Smithsonian's Web Infrastructure: The Smithsonian has a production central web delivery infrastructure that is supported by the Office of the Chief Information Officer's Web Services Division ("WSD") and provided to all Smithsonian museums/units. WSD supports over a hundred public websites and over 50 internal websites with a limited staff and budget and, therefore, must enforce a set of common infrastructure standards. Smithsonian's centrally-managed web infrastructures is Windows/Intel-based and consists of staging/content management servers, SQL database servers, load-balanced web/web application servers, reporting, and search servers. Smithsonian does not have a centrally provided development

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 66 of 96

environment. The Contractor is expected to develop the Products on and conduct beta testing within their own development environment. When beta testing is complete, the Contractor shall work with WSD to load the finished Products into the production environment, then conduct final pre-launch testing to verify functionality before the site is made live (available to the intended end audience). C.10. Staging/Content Management. Smithsonian uses a central staging ­ deployment model under which ALL site files are copied by the site manager to a staging/content management server that sits within Smithsonian's internal network. This internal "master" copy of the site is deployed to load-balanced sets of web/web application servers that reside within Smithsonian's DMZ. All file content must be deployed via this staging ­ deployment infrastructure. The Smithsonian uses Interwoven's TeamSite v. 6.5 web content management system which is centrally funded and supported. Museums and organizations are given their own dedicated branch and work areas in which to maintain their sites. TeamSite automatically provides versioning and the ability to create snap-shot editions of sites at given points in time. TeamSite also includes rich templating functionality which may or may not be used in a site's design. If a site design includes custom content management functionality, TeamSite must be used. No separate COTS or independently developed CM systems are allowed. C.11. Databases. Smithsonian's web database server environment is made up primarily of Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Enterprise Edition servers running on Windows Server 2003 in a clustered environment. There are also several non-clustered MS SQL Server 2005 servers, also running on Windows Server 2003. As existing database servers / clusters are replaced and new servers / clusters brought on line, they will be MS SQL Server 2005. The use of MS Access databases is not permitted within Smithsonian's web infrastructure, though Access may be used for development purposes before being migrated to SQL Server. C.12. Web/Web Deliverables Servers. SI's Web Services Division currently supported web / web application servers are 64 Bit Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition running IIS 7.5. ASP / ASP.NET, and ActivePERL are supported. WSD supports both shared and dedicated hosting models. The majority of current SI sites reside on shared servers. SI desires to migrate to a situation where the sites of the larger organizations reside on dedicated servers. All web servers are deployed in load-balanced sets behind a pair of Cisco content switches. This means that each web site is duplicated and served by management so this is invisible to the end user. This configuration provides complete, live redundancy and allows a server to be taken off-line for maintenance without bringing the site down. Should site traffic increase to a point where performance is affected, additional servers can be added to the set to handle the additional load. No direct logon on to the web servers is permitted. All file changes must be deployed via the staging infrastructure. SI's Intranet websites are served from servers located within a DMZ subnet that are logically and physically separate from SI's Intranet web servers. ColdFusion 9 are supported within the above infrastructure along with ASP / ASP.NET Versions: 1.1 through 4.0 plus Microsoft AJAX Extensions for ASP.NET 2.0 and PHP 5.3.5. Drupal/WordPress Applications on LAMP Servers: Since December 2010, SI's SAPA Division started to support Drupal/WordPress applications on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 67 of 96

common platform servers which are 64 Bit Intel Server. WSD supports both Drupal 6.27 and 7.14 as well as WordPress 3.3.2 applications. The Drupal and WordPress sites reside on virtual LAMP servers and depending on the version and units needs. C.13. Reporting. Contractor shall develop the CMS to allow for statistical data reporting. Every page request will be logged on the server which includes without limitation pages viewed on the Website, as well as pages viewed on the native devices. The full URL to the page (including any parameters) will be logged with a timestamp and session ID. For native applications, the unique device ID will be logged as well and all logged information will be stored in the MySQL database. Contractor's reports will capture page hits over daily, weekly and monthly intervals, ordered by frequency. Contractor shall develop the code for the Products to generate this primary set of reports from the logged data. Any generated reports will be served from the CMS as HTML, XML or JSON pages; and access will be restricted to those who have access to the CMD. C.14. Search. Smithsonian has implemented a Google GB-5005 Enterprise Search Appliance cluster that is centrally maintained by Smithsonian's Web Services Division (WSD) for search within Smithsonian public websites. This Google appliance is made available to all Smithsonian unit public web sites for setup of site-specific collections / sub-collections (views) using normal crawls.
C.15. ADDITIONAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.

C.15.1 The Contractor shall designate a project manager who will coordinate with Smithsonian, schedule and document all meetings, track the development process, oversee all requested changes, provide quality control, and act as a liaison with Smithsonian stakeholders. C.15.2 During the performance of the work, the Contractor shall keep in close liaison with the Smithsonian COTR. The Contractor shall also keep written records of all significant telephone conversations, meetings, or discussions between the Contractor, and any organization contacted concerning this project. C.16.3 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Smithsonian staff will only be present to the extent necessary to provide general Project coordination, and to observe and review the progress of the Project. C.17.4 Smithsonian reviews and approval shall not relieve the Contractor of professional liability or conformance with the Scope of Work. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and all facets of the Project. This responsibility remains with the Contractor until the entire Project has been has been completed, ensuring thereby that all documents have been submitted, and all claims are resolved. C.18.5 Contractor must make its staff available for all required team meetings, design reviews, and inspections. C.19.6 Contractor must immediately notify the COTR and the Smithsonian Contracting Officer of any problem, unexpected occurrence, or delay in the process of the Contracted work. C.20.7 It is anticipated that the Products and all online and mobile aspects of the Project will be designed and developed by a team of contractors working with Smithsonian staff. Contractor

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 68 of 96

shall report directly to the Senior Program Manager, Smithsonian Office of the Under Secretary for History, Art and Culture. C.21.8 Contractor must work cooperatively with the Project team and collaborating Smithsonian staff whose activities may be functioning in concert with the efforts of the assigned project in order to ensure that all elements of the projects provided work together efficiently and safely with all components compiled, created, fabricated and/or installed by the Contractor. C.22.9 All work required hereunder shall take place both on-site at Smithsonian Washington DC Metropolitan area locations, and off-site at the Contractor's offices. The Contractor will be expected to meet with the Smithsonian on-site at Smithsonian locations for formal briefings and meetings occasionally, as needed. C.23.10 The Contractor shall be available during normal business hours (8:30 a.m. ­ 5:30 p.m. ET) for support and inquiries during production and launch. On occasion it may be necessary to work outside normal business hours. All Government holidays shall be observed. Contractor staff meetings shall be limited to no more than one hour per week. The cost of any additional contractor staff meetings will be borne entirely by the contractor. C.24 DEPLOYMENT AND HOSTING. Upon Smithsonian Acceptance, Contractor shall promptly deploy the Products to the Smithsonian OCIO server and supporting environment. Contractor represents and warrants that all services shall be performed so that the applications, when operated on the Smithsonian server, will function and perform in accordance with the requirements set forth herein. Contractor shall, at no cost to Smithsonian, promptly provide any updates, revisions, and replacements necessary for the applications to function and perform in accordance with requirements of this Contract. C.25 SOURCE FILES/SOURCE CODE. Contractor shall provide Smithsonian with all source files for the Website including high-resolution (non-derivative) master-image files. Contractor shall also furnish Smithsonian with three (3) complete and accurate machine readable CD-ROM copies of: (i) the source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language and assembly language forms of the Website; (ii) all original Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator or other graphics files, xthml, dhtml, CSS, cfm, html files, complete Java or Javascript code, Adobe Flash, director, animation or other scripts and production files, if any; and (iii) all other work product as defined herein. If Contractor corrects any defects in, or revises all or any portion of the Products Contractor shall simultaneously furnish Smithsonian with three (3) corrected or revised copies of the source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language and assembly language forms of the Products along with three (3) machine readable CD-ROM copies of the Products. C.26 PRODUCT GUIDELINES. In addition to other requirements contained herein, Contractor shall use its best efforts to ensure that the Website and Web Deliverables conform to the following guidelines: (a.) Artistic Control. Smithsonian shall have exclusive artistic and editorial control over the Products including without limitation, integration of all content; the design; and the look and feel of the Products. Except as provided herein, Contractor shall not publish, or otherwise display the Products or any portion thereof without Smithsonian's prior written approval.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 69 of 96

(b.) Purpose. The Products shall be designed to attract repeat user visits and promote the most current content, assets, services, goods, and properties identified by the Smithsonian. (c.) Limitations. Contractor shall not, without Smithsonian's prior written consent, permit the Products to contain or include: (i) software that is downloadable by users (other than HTML and other software used to format and display HTML documents or World Wide Web Pages, and elements embedded therein, such as sounds, images, audiovisual clips, which elements Smithsonian acknowledges will be downloadable by users); (ii) HTTP links to websites other than a Smithsonian website; (iii) materials received and/or licensed from third parties; or (iv) the capability to sell products or services directly through the Website and web applications. (d.) Quality Control. Throughout the Contract Term, Contractor shall adopt a quality assurance program to monitor and evaluate the quality and effectiveness of the Products; and Contractor will cooperate with the Smithsonian in taking steps to resolve any quality or performance issues arising in connection with the Products. Section D - Packaging and Marking Not Applicable. Section E - Inspection and Acceptance E.1. Inspection. Upon proper notice and during normal working hours, the Smithsonian Institution reserves the right to perform any inspections and tests as deemed necessary to assure that the Contractor is performing in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. Inspection may be at the Contractor's place of business or at any location where work is being performed in conjunction with this Contract. Inspection by the Smithsonian Institution shall not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for any or all quality control aspects during the Term of the Contract. E.2. Acceptance E.2.1. All Deliverables required hereunder must be submitted to the Smithsonian's Contracting Officer's Technical Representative ("COTR") for review, approval and acceptance. Such approval, if given, will indicate acceptability to the Smithsonian Institution of performance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Contract and will be subject to applicable warranties. The Smithsonian Institution reserves the right to reject work not meeting intended performance requirements prescribed under this Contract. E.2.2. Deliverables shall be of an acceptable quality addressing the requirements clearly and professionally. Deliverables, will be accepted when all discrepancies, errors, or other deficiencies have been resolved to the COTR's satisfaction. All notifications of rejection will be accompanied by specific justification or substantiation of the reason(s) for rejection. Acceptance hereunder shall be based on the following criteria completed to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian: (i.) Successful tests of all required and proposed functions hereunder.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 70 of 96

(ii.) Delivery of the complete, accepted Deliverables and documentation sent to the COTR as required hereunder. E.2.3. Neither the Smithsonian Institution's reviews, approval, or acceptance of services and/or Deliverables, nor payment for any of the services or Deliverables required under this Contract shall be construed to operate as a waiver of action arising out of the performance of this Contract. Furthermore, the Contractor shall be and remain liable to the Smithsonian Institution in accordance with applicable law for all damages to the Smithsonian Institution caused by the Contractor's negligent performance of any of the services or supplies furnished under this Contract. Acceptance by the Smithsonian Institution does not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for correction of errors or omissions that may arise after such acceptance if the errors and omissions are clearly a fault in Contractor performance. Section F - Deliveries or Performance F.1 Deliverables Schedule. All work effort shall be completed in accordance with the attached SOW according to the following Deliverable Schedule. The Contractor's schedule should include two (2) weeks for each review after complete submittal. F.1.1 Schedule of Deliverables. All deliverables shall be completed and submitted for approval no later than the following dates in accordance with SI Comments: [SEE SOW FOR PROPOSED DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE. FINAL TO BE ADDED HERE.] F.2 Deliverable Requirements. Contractor must adhere to recognized/accepted system development life cycle management principles and submit to the COTR of record written requirements and plans (e.g. technical, analysis and design, implementation and deployment, plan for performance contingencies, etc.); documentation of the system design and architecture; documentation of onsite and remote location test plan, procedures, and results for all components of the system; documentation of successful performance of the Deliverables as designed and required. All Deliverables must be delivered to the Smithsonian in a timely fashion and all documentation and results shall be reviewed by Smithsonian and used as the basis for full acceptance. F.3 Period of Performance. Contractor shall complete all work effort required hereunder to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian by no later than September, 2013 in strict accordance with the project schedule set forth in Section F.1 above. The Contract term shall continue through [ADD DATE] (the "Term") to provide for a 6 month maintenance period following delivery of the Website. F.4 Place of Delivery: F.4.1 All Deliverables required hereunder shall be delivered to the Smithsonian at the following address: Mr. Jeffrey Brodie

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 71 of 96

Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation National Museum of History 1000 Jefferson Drive, S.W. Washington, DC 20560 202-633-3332 brodiej@si.edu Section G - Contract Administration Data G.1 Contract Management. Notwithstanding the Contractor's responsibility for total management during the performance of this Contract, the administration of the Contract will require maximum coordination between the Smithsonian and the Contractor. The following individuals will be the Smithsonian points of contact during the performance of the Contract. G.2 Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer will be responsible for all contract administration; and all communications pertaining to contractual administrative matters will be addressed to the Contracting Officer. No changes in or deviation from the scope of work shall be made without a written modification to this Contract executed by the Contracting Officer authorizing such changes. G.3 Contracting Officer's Technical Representative(s) (COTR). (i.) The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) Jeffrey Brodie, 202-633-3332, of the Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation, National Museum of American History, or his authorized representative shall act for and on behalf of the Contracting Officer in the administration of this Contract with respect to the services and Deliverables provided hereunder as well as: a. Resolution of issues that may arise between the Contractor and the Smithsonian Institution in connection with such matters as acceptability of workmanship and other technical requirements; b. Evaluation on an overall basis of the acceptability of workmanship and Contractor's compliance with technical requirements; and c. The approval and acceptance of work performed under this Contract. (ii.) This delegation does not authorize the modification of any of the contract's provisions, terms or conditions. All authorities not herein delegated are reserved to the Contracting Officer. (iii.) The Contractor shall make available such records, reports and facilities as may be required to carry out this assignment. G.4 Authorities. The Contractor is advised that only the Contracting Officer can change or modify the terms of this Contract or take any other action which obligates the Smithsonian and then such action must be set forth in a formal modification to the Contract. The authority of the COTR is strictly limited to the specific duties set forth in her letter of appointment, a copy of which will be furnished the Contractor. Contractors who rely on direction from persons other than the Contracting Officer (or a COTR acting within the strict limits of his/her responsibilities

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 72 of 96

as set forth in his/her letter of appointment) do so at their own risk and expense, as such actions do not bind the Smithsonian contractually. All questions concerning the authority of a Smithsonian employee to direct the Contractor contractually should be referred to the Contracting Officer. G.5 Invoices. All payments made hereunder shall be made by electronic funds transfer ("EFT"). The Contractor shall submit invoice(s) for payment identifying the Smithsonian Institution Contract number and summary of work. The Contractor shall submit invoices for progress payments pursuant to the payment schedule set forth below. Invoices must reflect actual costs in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. The Contractor may submit invoices only for work performed, completed, delivered and accepted by the COTR. All payments shall be made only upon Smithsonian's receipt and approval of said invoice(s) submitted by Contractor. Invoices shall be sent to the COTR, Jeffrey Brodie at the address specified herein. NOTE: The Prompt Payment Act, P.L.97-177 (31 U.S.C Section 3901), is not applicable to the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian Institution shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that payment for invoice(s) properly documented and submitted shall be paid within 30 days from receipt of an approved proper invoice(s) by the COTR. G.5.1 The Smithsonian Institution reserves the right to verify the amount of services rendered on any invoice by review of the Contractor's records. Such review may be made by appropriate Smithsonian Institution personnel, the Comptroller of the Unites States or an outside audit firm, at the election of the Contracting Officer or the U.S. Government. The Contractor shall make such records available to such audit personnel at any reasonable time. G.5.2 Any additional supplies or services or a change to work specified which may be performed by Contractor at its own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer except as may be explicitly authorized in this Contract, are not authorized and will not be paid for. Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the scope, price and other terms and conditions in this Contract. G.6 Payment Schedule. The firm fixed project price of [ADD AMOUNT] shall be payable upon Smithsonian's receipt and acceptance of all services and Deliverables, with any conflicts resolved to the Smithsonian's satisfaction, and corresponding proper, approved invoices submitted in accordance with the following schedule: G.7 Access to Records. The Contractor agrees that the Contracting Officer of the Smithsonian Institution or any of her duly authorized representatives shall, until 3 years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Contract have access to and the right to examine any books, documents, papers, and records of the Contractor involving transactions related to this Contract or compliance with any clauses hereunder. G.8 Notices. Any legal notices sent pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing and deemed delivered upon receipt by hand delivery; by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or by overnight express courier to the addresses below. Regular, non-legal notices/correspondence (including the notification of address changes) for project coordination matters shall be sent in the same manner or any other method evidencing receipt to the following addresses:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 73 of 96

To SMITHSONIAN: For Project Coordination Matters: Mr. Jeffrey Brodie Smithsonian Institution National Museum of American History P.O. Box 37012 MRC 570 Washington, DC 20013-7012 202-633-3332 brodiej@si.edu For Contractor: [ADD NAME]

For Contractual or Legal Matters: Smithsonian Contracting Officer Office of Contracting Smithsonian Institution Washington, D.C. 20013-7012 Attn: Chris Crane

G.9 Incorporation of Contractor's Proposal. It is understood and agreed that the Contractor shall, in meeting the requirements of this Contract, perform the work in accordance with its proposal which is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment J.3. However, to the extent that any provisions of the terms and conditions of this Contract in conflict or inconsistent with any provisions of said proposal, the provisions of this contract shall be controlling and shall supersede the provisions of said proposal. Section H - Special Contract Requirements H.1 Use of Smithsonian Names. Contractor is hereby put on notice that Smithsonian owns, controls, and/or has registered the trademarks/service marks "Smithsonian", "Smithsonian Institution", the Smithsonian sunburst logo and the names of its other museums, organizations and facilities (the "Names"). Contractor further acknowledges the great value of the prestige, publicity, and goodwill associated with the Names, and in such connection, acknowledges that such goodwill belongs exclusively to Smithsonian and that the Names have acquired a secondary meaning in the mind of the purchasing public as a source of museum services and museum products. Contractor agrees that it shall not knowingly harm, misuse, or bring into disrepute the Names, and will assist Smithsonian as it may reasonably request in preserving the integrity and dignity of the Names and any trademark interest therein. H.1.1 Restricted Uses. Except as may be otherwise provided herein, Contractor shall not without Smithsonian's prior, written approval refer to the Smithsonian Institution or to any of its museums, programs, organizations, or facilities in any manner or through any medium, whether written, oral, or visual for any purpose whatsoever, including, but not limited to, advertising, marketing, promotion, publicity, solicitation, or fund-raising. Contractor shall not have the Names printed on its letterhead stationery or brochures advertising non-Smithsonian sponsored activities. H.1.2 Permitted Uses. Notwithstanding anything in the Contract to the contrary, Contractor may make casual or factual reference to the Names in a way, which does not bear on Contractor's obligations herein or the service thereof. Contractor may make use of the Names in a client "resume" format, so long as Contractor lists Smithsonian among all or a significant portion of its

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 74 of 96

other clients, without placing the Names in a prominent position, prominent or different typeface, or otherwise placing the Names so as to draw special attention to them among other client names. The preferred method is to arrange client names according to either alphabetical order or chronologically, according to number of years that Contractor has provided service to each client. H.1.3 Smithsonian Approvals. Contractor's use of the Names shall maintain the dignity and integrity of the Smithsonian. All of the language, phrases, format, and/or layout concerning or referring to the Names pertaining to the subject matter of this Contract shall be submitted to Smithsonian for Smithsonian's prior written approval. Once Smithsonian has approved such materials, Contractor may continue to use such materials without further approval, provided that there are no significant changes in text, layout, content, or design. Contractor shall place an appropriate notice of trademark ownership or federal trademark registration next to all of the Names as they are displayed. Any inadvertent failure shall not constitute a breach of this Contract. H.2 Changes. The Smithsonian Contracting Officer may at any time, in writing, make changes within the general scope of this Contract to include: Technical requirements and descriptions, specifications, statements of work; place of delivery, inspection or acceptance; and reasonable adjustments in quantities or delivery schedules or both. If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of or the time required for performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall inform the Smithsonian Contracting Officer in writing within three (3) business days after receipt of such a change request by submitting a detailed cost proposal. Contractor shall not make any changes without the advance written consent of the Smithsonian Contracting Officer. Funds are not presently available for the any additional services beyond those set forth herein. The Smithsonian's obligation under this Contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Smithsonian for any payment for additional services may arise until Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer by separate written amendment hereto. H.3 Confidentiality. The Smithsonian Institution is a trust instrumentality of the United States and has adopted a written policy for responding to requests for Smithsonian Institution records, including paper documents, electronic data, email, contracts, and other information stored or maintained by the Smithsonian, consistent with the principles of disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 United States Code (U.S.C.), § 552. H.3.1 Confidential Information. Confidential Information consists of trade secrets, product concepts, customer information, marketing communication material, marketing strategies, other information related to the business activities of the Discloser, and commercial or financial information that is not normally released by the disclosing party to the public and that, if released to a person or entity not authorized under this Contract, is likely to cause the disclosing party substantial competitive harm or violate the privacy rights of third parties. If Confidential Information is disclosed in tangible form, it shall be clearly designated in writing as such by the disclosing party. If Confidential Information is disclosed other than in writing, the information deemed to be Confidential Information shall be confirmed in writing as such within thirty days of such disclosure.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 75 of 96

H.3.2 Exceptions to Confidential Information. Confidential Information shall not include any information, whether or not designated in writing as Confidential Information, which: (i.) (ii.) (iii.) (iv.) (v.) was publicly available at the time of disclosure; was known by the receiving party prior to such disclosure; becomes publicly available after disclosure through no fault of the receiving party; is received from a third party who acquired the information without committing a wrongful or tortious act; or is developed independently by the receiving party without reference to or use of Confidential Information.

Either Party shall notify the other promptly in writing of any misappropriation, unauthorized disclosure or use by any person of the Confidential Information which may come to the recipient party's attention. Recipient will take all steps reasonably requested by Discloser to stop, limit, or otherwise remedy such misappropriation, unauthorized disclosure or use. H.3.3 Limited Disclosure. Each party agrees that it will not disclose Confidential Information provided to it by the other party to others except to the extent that it is necessary to disclose such Confidential Information to its directors, officers, representatives, legal and financial consultants, and employees having a need to know such Confidential Information ("authorized parties") for to achieve the purposes for which the information was disclosed. The parties shall use at least the same degree of care that each party uses to protect its own Confidential Information of similar importance, but no less than a reasonable degree of care. Further, the parties may disclose Confidential Information if required by law, subpoena, order or request of a federal governmental authority or court of competent jurisdiction, and further, in the case of the Smithsonian, as may be required under its written records disclosure policy, provided that the party obligated to disclose such Confidential Information shall (i) assert the confidential nature of the Confidential Information to be disclosed, (ii) use reasonable efforts to obtain confidential treatment for any Confidential Information so disclosed, and (iii) immediately notify the other party of the requirement, order, or request to disclose in advance of such disclosure in order to afford the other party the opportunity to contest disclosure. No other use or disclosure of Confidential Information may be made by any party without the prior written consent of the disclosing party. H.3.4 Return of Confidential Information. The receiving party will either return or destroy all tangible materials embodying Confidential Information within ten business days of receipt of the disclosing party's written request to do so and, if further requested by the disclosing party, the receiving party will provide written certification of such destruction. All data received, processed, evaluated, loaded, and/or created as a result of this Contract shall remain the sole property of the Smithsonian. H.4 Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Compliance. OMB Memo M-05-22, dated August 2, 2005, requires that all agencies' infrastructure must be using IPv6 and all agency networks must interface with this infrastructure. The Contractor hereby warrants and represents that the Deliverables and/or systems to be developed, acquired, and/or produced pursuant to this Contract

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 76 of 96

will be IPv6 compliant. The Deliverables and/or systems must be able to receive, process, and transmit or forward (as appropriate) IPv6 packets and must be able to interoperate with other systems and protocols in both IPv4 and IPv6 modes of operation. H.5 Required Central Contractor Registration ("CCR") H.5.1 Contractor shall be registered in the CCR database and shall maintain active registration in CCR throughout the Term of this Contract. H.5.2 The Contractor is responsible, during performance and through final payment, for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Smithsonian's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate, and complete. Updating information in CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this Contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. H.5.3 The Contractor shall not change the name or address for electronic funds transfer (EFT) payments or manual payments as appropriate in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims. Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor shall be considered to be incorrect information. Section I - Contract Clauses (Sections A and B) Section A I.1 Security and Privacy. Personally Identifiable Information (PII) refers to information about individuals, including information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity and any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial or employment information. Work to be performed under this contract may require the handling of PII such as name, address, email address, full date of birth, social security number, capacity rating, credit card number, etc. Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information ("SPII") is defined as information, which if lost, compromised or disclosed without authorization, could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an individual. PII, SPII and other Smithsonian data is collectively referred to herein as "Smithsonian Data." I.1.2 Safeguarding Smithsonian Data collected or possessed by Contractor in the course of this Contract and preventing its disclosure are essential. The physical and logical design of Contractor's information technology network, procurement of the network elements and the ongoing configuration and maintenance of the network shall be the responsibility of Contractor. The security of the network is of paramount importance and should prevent unauthorized access, loss, or modification of Smithsonian Data.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 77 of 96

I.1.3 Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) will be completed for the Deliverables to the extent that it collects, maintains, or disseminates PII or SPII in electronic form from or about members of the public. The privacy notice in the final Deliverables shall include a link to the Smithsonian's current PIAs. I.1.4 Contractor shall limit access to Smithsonian Data to those employees and subcontractors who require the information in order to perform their official duties under this Contract. Contractor, Contractor employees, and subcontractors must physically secure PII when not in use and/or under the control of an authorized individual, and when in transit to prevent unauthorized access or loss. When PII is no longer needed or required to be retained under applicable Smithsonian records retention policies, it must be destroyed through means that will make the PII irretrievable. I.1.5 Contractor shall use PII obtained hereunder solely for purposes of this Contract, and shall not collect or use such information for any other purpose without the prior written approval of the Smithsonian Contracting Officer. At expiration or termination of this Contract, the contractor shall turn over all PII obtained under the contract that is in its possession to the Smithsonian as provided in the termination provisions set forth herein. I.1.6 In performing its duties related to management, operation, and/or access of systems containing Smithsonian Data under this Contract, the Contractor, its employees and subcontractors shall comply with applicable security requirements set forth herein as well as those set forth in the Smithsonian OCIO IT Security Standards (to be provided by the Smithsonian Contracting Officer upon request). (i.) To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Smithsonian Data, Contractor shall afford Smithsonian access to Contractor's facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases, and shall otherwise cooperate with the Smithsonian in assuring compliance with such requirements. Smithsonian access shall include independent validation testing of controls, system penetration testing by the Smithsonian, data reviews, and access by Smithsonian Inspectors General for its reviews. (ii.) Use of Contractor laptops or other media storage devices to process or store PII, SPII or other sensitive Smithsonian data is prohibited under this Contract unless and until the Contractor provides, and the Contracting Officer approves, written certification by the Contractor that the following requirements are met: (a.) Laptops employ encryption using standards to be provided by Smithsonian OCIO. (b.) The Contractor has developed and implemented a process to ensure that security and other applications software are kept current. (c.) Mobile computing devices utilize anti-viral software and a host-based firewall mechanism.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 78 of 96

(d.) When no longer needed, all removable media and laptop hard drives shall be processed (i.e., sanitized, degaussed, or destroyed) in accordance with Smithsonian security requirements. (e.) The Contractor shall maintain an accurate inventory of devices used in the performance of this Contract. (f.) Contractor shall immediately report to Smithsonian any incident that results in unauthorized access, loss or modification of Smithsonian Data collected or stored in the course of this Contract or denial of service affecting the availability of such data. (g.) If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either Smithsonian or Contractor, or if existing safeguards have ceased to function, the discoverer shall immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party. I.1.7 Breach Notification. "Breach" as used herein shall mean the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar situation where persons other than authorized users, and for other than authorized purpose, have access or potential access to PII, SPII or other sensitive Smithsonian data, in usable form whether physical or electronic. In the event of any actual or suspected breach of Smithsonian Data (i.e., loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, access for an unauthorized purpose, or other unauthorized access, whether physical or electronic), Contractor shall immediately, and in no event later than one (1) hour of discovery, report the breach to the individuals identified below. The Contractor is responsible for positively verifying that notification is received and acknowledged by at least one of the following parties: COTR, Mr. Jeffrey Brodie: Telephone: 202-633-3332 brodiej@si.edu Smithsonian Privacy Officer, Rosalind Kennedy: 202.633.5234 (office) 301.580.3478 (cell) KennedyRO@si.edu

(i.) Contractor hereby represents and warrants that it has in place procedures and the capability to promptly notify any individual whose PII was, or is reasonably believed to have been, breached, as the Smithsonian deems appropriate. The method and content of any notification by Contractor shall be coordinated with, and subject to the prior approval of the Smithsonian Privacy Council, based upon a risk-based analysis conducted by the Smithsonian in accordance with Smithsonian Directive 118, Privacy Breach Notification Policy. Contractor shall not proceed unless the Smithsonian has determined that such notification is appropriate. (ii.) Subject to the Smithsonian's analysis of the breach and the terms of its instructions to the Contractor regarding any resulting breach notification, a method of notification may include letters to affected individuals sent by first class mail, electronic means, or general public notice, as approved by the Smithsonian. At minimum, a notification shall include: (1) a brief description of how the breach occurred; (2) a description of the types of personal information involved in the breach; (3) a statement as to whether the information was encrypted or protected by other means; (4) steps an individual may take to protect themselves; (5) what the agency is doing, if anything, to investigate the breach, to mitigate losses, and to protect against any further

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 79 of 96

breaches; and (6) point of contact information identifying who affected individuals may contact for further information. (iii.) In the event of a breach, the Contractor may be held liable in whole or in part for such breach, to the extent that the Contractor, by virtue of its own acts or omissions, or those of its agents, bears responsibility for the breach, as determined by the Smithsonian. Such acts or omissions include, but are not limited to: failure to comply with applicable privacy or security requirements; failure to take other reasonable and appropriate precautions to prevent such a breach; or failure to report a breach immediately, such that the delay results in a harm that could have been avoided or mitigated had the breach been reported immediately. Remedies may include, but shall not be limited to: costs of forensic analysis or other investigation; breach notification to affected individuals or entities; credit monitoring services for such individuals or entities; training; or other costs associated with mitigating or remedying the breach, or preventing further breaches. Such costs may be withheld from payments otherwise due to the Contractor under this Contract. I.1.8 Pass Through of Clauses to Subcontractors. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause, its terms and requirements, in all subcontracts under this Contract, and to require written subcontractor acknowledgement of same. Violation by a subcontractor of any provision set forth in this clause will be attributed to the Contractor. I.1.9 Web Tracking/Geolocation Technologies. The Deliverables may make use of persistent web tracking or geolocation technologies, including, but not limited to, cookies, web bugs, and web beacons only if visitors are provided a prior opportunity to accept or decline such technology ("opt-in") without denying them access to Content if they decline. I.2 Intellectual Property Rights. I.2.1 Work for Hire. Subject to Section I.2.4, the Deliverables, Deliverables and all other software code, materials, content and products derived from the services performed by Contractor hereunder ("Work Product"), shall each be considered a "work made for hire" and the Work Product and all intellectual property rights embodied therein (including copyright, trademark, patent and trade secrets) are Smithsonian's sole and exclusive property throughout the world. "Work Product" under this Contract shall also include the following: (i) all design documents; (ii) all graphic elements, the aesthetic qualities, the "look and feel" of the Deliverables, and all other unique and/or customized parts and aspects of the Deliverables; and (iii) all computer software, in both source code and object code form; and user, programmer and technical documentation relating to such software. If title to the Work Product does not vest in Smithsonian, by operation of law, or all or any portion of the Work Product is not considered "work made for hire" under the United States Copyright law, Contractor hereby irrevocably assigns and shall cause its' subcontractors to irrevocably assign to Smithsonian, all rights, title and interest therein, including without limitation, all copyright, patent, trade secrets and other proprietary rights in and to all Work Product. Such Work Product shall include all preliminary or conceptual renditions of the Work Product, whether such renditions are handed over to Smithsonian or not. Smithsonian has the sole right to obtain and to hold in its own name Work Product copyrights, trademarks, servicemarks, registrations or such other protection as may be appropriate to the subject matter, and any extensions and renewals thereof. Contractor further

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 80 of 96

agrees that no right at common law or in equity to the Work Product shall be asserted, and no claim to copyright by any statute shall be established by Contractor in any Work Product. Contractor shall secure Smithsonian's legal title and interests in and to all such Work Product that is produced for Contractor by third parties, including but not limited to subcontractors. I.2.2 Grant of License. The Smithsonian hereby grants to Contractor a non-exclusive, irrevocable, limited license for the duration of the Term to use and copy the Smithsonian Content provided hereunder, but only to the extent necessary to fulfill Contractor's obligations hereunder with respect to the development and distribution of the Deliverables. All such Content shall remain the sole property of the Smithsonian and shall be returned to the Smithsonian at the end of the Term. I.2.3 Contractor shall not include in its design and production of the Deliverables material for which the copyright and other rights have not been cleared or for which Smithsonian does not have copyright ownership without Smithsonian's prior consultation and written approval. Any content, assets and data received, processed, evaluated, loaded and/or created a result of this Contract shall remain the sole property of the Smithsonian. I.2.4 Open Source and Pre-existing Intellectual Property. I.2.4.1 Other Open Source Software. Contractor hereby represents and warrants that any open source software and that Smithsonian's use of the same in the Program will not violate the respective third party open source licenses. Contractor shall ensure that the licenses of the various open source programs to be used in the Program are compatible and Contractor shall further strictly adhere to all such licenses in its production and distribution of the Program. Any failure by Contractor to adhere to this provision shall be deemed a material breach of Contract. I.2.5 Warranties. Contractor warrants that the Program, work product, Deliverables, and all other materials provided hereunder are new and original except as set forth in I.2.4. Contractor further warrants that the Program, work product, Deliverables and any other materials provided by Contractor hereunder and the Smithsonian's use thereof, contains no matter libelous or unlawful and will not violate or infringe upon any copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents, common law rights and/or other property rights of any third party, any third party operating system, database and/or programming language provider. Contractor shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the Smithsonian Institution, its Board of Regents, officers, agents, and employees against any liability, including costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney fees) resulting from any damages, claim or demand arising out of a breach of the foregoing warranties. Pending the resolution of any claim against Contractor or the Smithsonian, with respect to Contractor's ownership and/or authority, the Smithsonian may withhold payment of any sums otherwise required to be paid hereunder. I.2.6 Reporting Requirement. Contractor shall report in writing to STRI's Legal Counsel, promptly and in reasonable detail, any notice or claims of copyright infringement received by Contractor with respect to any work product or other material delivered under this Contract. I.2.7 Survival of Warranties. The warranties and representations contained herein shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Contract. Nothing in this Section I.2 shall preclude

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 81 of 96

either party, without limitation, from asserting or defending any claim or action involving any matter arising out of this Contract. I.3 Additional Representations and Warranties. In addition to the warranties and representations contained elsewhere herein, Contractor additionally warrants and represents the following: I.3.1. General Warranties: (i) The Deliverables will operate in conformance with the terms of this Contract; (ii) Contractor has full authority to enter into this Contract; (iii) Contractor is either the owner of the software, materials and methodologies used to develop the Deliverables or Contractor has acquired the rights to use any software, materials and methodologies owed by third parties used to develop the web site, applications and provide the services contained herein; (iv) at the time of delivery, the Deliverables shall comply with the terms of this Contract; (v) the Deliverables and other materials and methodologies used by Contractor in connection with this Contract (excluding Content supplied by Smithsonian) does not infringe upon any third party copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret or other third-party right; (vi) All information provided to Smithsonian prior to the execution of this Contract was accurate at the time it was made, and Contractor is not aware of substantial changes that would adversely affect Contractor's ability to perform the Services; and (vii) Contractor shall not use the Content for any purpose other than that of fulfilling Contractor's obligations under this Contract. The Content may not be used, disclosed, transmitted, transferred, sold, assigned, leased or otherwise disposed of, or made available to third parties, or be commercially exploited by or on behalf of Contractor, or Contractor's employees or agents, except as expressly provided in this Contract. I.3.2. Software Limitation. The Deliverables shall be completely operational, free of bugs, viruses, and other potentially hostile elements. When delivered to Smithsonian the Deliverables will not: (i) contain any virus; or (ii) contain any key lock, back door, scripting error, timer, clock, counter nor other limiting design, instruction, routine or disabling device that would: (a) disrupt the use of the Deliverables, software or systems to which the Deliverables is interfaced or connected; or (b) destroy or damage data or make data inaccessible or delayed; or (c) permit Contractor's personnel or other individuals access to any portion of the web site if their access privileges have been revoked or suspended; (the preceding (a), (b) and (c) are collectively referred to herein as ("Software Limitation")). Moreover, Contractor represents that there will be no Software Limitation in the Deliverables that would be triggered by: (i) the Deliverables, being used or copied a certain number of times, or after the lapse of a certain period of time; or (ii) the Deliverables, being installed on or moved to a central processing unit or system that has a serial number, model number or other identification different from the central processing unit or system on which the website, was originally installed; or (iii) the occurrence or lapse of any similar triggering factor or event. Contractor shall use reasonable practices and security procedures to avoid insertion of Software Limitations, whether prior to installation of the web site or other Deliverables or in rendering warranty, maintenance and support services, if any. Contractor will not knowingly include any Software Limitation in any enhancement or update. The Deliverables will work compatibly with commercially available virus protection programs. Under no circumstances will Contractor disrupt the functioning of, or prevent Smithsonian from gaining access to the Deliverables or any of the Deliverables. I.3.3 The terms and conditions of this Section I.3 and all other warranties and representations made by Contractor hereunder shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Contract. Nothing in this Section shall preclude either party, without limitation, from asserting or defending any claim or action involving any matter arising out of this Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 82 of 96

I.4 Warranty Period, Maintenance and Support. For a period of six (6) months following the Smithsonian's complete acceptance of all Deliverables, Contractor shall provide technical assistance, maintenance and troubleshooting services ("Warranty Period"), and during such period the Deliverables shall: (i) be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and remain in good working order; (ii) interface with the software programs and applications referenced herein; (iii) function properly and in conformity with this Contract; and (iv) be fit for its' intended use. If the Deliverables does not meet the warranties referenced herein, Contractor shall provide at no charge during the Warranty Period, the necessary software and technical and troubleshooting services required to attain the levels or standards contained herein. I.4.1 Contractor agrees that a qualified and knowledgeable representative will respond to any request for service due to a failure, malfunction, defect or non-conformity via telephone within one business day of receipt of such request and such representative shall render continuous effort, to remedy the failure, malfunction, defect or non-conformity. If such failure, malfunction, defect, or non-conformity cannot be remedied by such means within one business day of receipt of such request, Contractor shall furnish continuous effort to remedy the failure, malfunction, defect, or non-conformity. Finally, during the Warranty Period, Contractor warrants that it shall remedy, at its expense, any failure of the Deliverables to perform in accordance with this Contract. During the Warranty Period, any defect in the, Deliverables and Deliverables of which Contractor is notified of shall be promptly fixed at no cost to the Smithsonian and shall be promptly delivered to Smithsonian. I.5 Indemnification. Contractor shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Smithsonian, its Regents, directors, officers, employees, volunteers, licensees, representatives, agents and the United States Government from and against all actions, causes of action, losses, liabilities, damages, suits, judgments, liens, awards, claims, expenses and costs including without limitation costs of litigation and counsel fees related thereto, or incident to establishing the right to indemnification, arising out of or in any way related to: (i.) Any material breach of this Contract, Terms and Conditions, and the performance thereof by Contractor, its subcontractors, including, without limitation, the provision of services, personnel, facilities, equipment, support, supervision, or review; any claims of any kind and nature whatsoever for property damage, personal injury, illness or death (including, without limitation, injury to, or death of employees or agents of Contractor or any subcontractor). (ii.) Any claims by a third party of actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement, or inducement to infringe any United States copyright, common law literary rights, patent, trademark, right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery or use of the Deliverables, Deliverables or any other materials as provided to Smithsonian under this Contract or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data or other intellectual property rights and damages. Contractor shall notify the Smithsonian immediately upon receiving any notice or claim related to this Contract. I.6 Federal Tort Claims Act. Contractor is hereby on notice that the Smithsonian Institution falls within the purview of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. Sections 1346(b), and 2671-80). As such, the exclusive remedy for claims against Smithsonian Institution for bodily injury, death, and property damage due to negligence of Smithsonian Institution or its employees acting within the scope of their employment is the Federal Tort Claims Act. I.7 Non-Discrimination. In fulfilling its obligations under this Contract, Contractor agrees not to discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability or for

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 83 of 96

any other reason prohibited by U.S. Federal or applicable state law. I.8 Order of Precedence. In the event of an inconsistency between provisions of this Contract, the inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 1. The Statement of Work and Contract Schedule (Sections A through H excluding Contractor's Proposal); 2. Contract Clauses (Section I); 3. Other documents, exhibits and attachments (Section J); and 4. Other provisions of the Contract whether incorporated by reference or otherwise. I.9 Disputes. Except as otherwise provided in this Contract, any dispute arising hereunder which is not disposed of by agreement shall be decided by the Contracting Officer. All disputes must be submitted within 12 months after accrual of the claim to the Contracting Officer for a written decision. The Contracting Officer shall mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof to the Contractor. This decision shall be final and conclusive, unless within 60 days from the date of receipt of such copy, the Contractor mails or otherwise furnishes to the Contracting Officer a written appeal addressed to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The decision of the Secretary or his duly authorized representative for the determination of such appeals shall be final and conclusive, unless determined to have been fraudulent, or capricious or arbitrary, or so grossly erroneous as necessarily to imply bad faith, or not supported by substantial evidence. The Contractor shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of his appeal. Pending final decision of a dispute hereunder, the Contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the Contract and in accordance with the Contracting Officer's decision. I.10 Termination. I.10.1 Termination for Cause. The Smithsonian may terminate this Contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by Contractor, or if Contractor fails to comply with any Contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Smithsonian, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Smithsonian shall not be liable to Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and Contractor shall be liable to the Smithsonian for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. I.10.2 Termination for the Smithsonian's Convenience. Smithsonian shall have the right to terminate this Contract without cause upon providing a minimum of thirty (30) days prior written notice to Contractor. The date that the thirty (30) day notice period expires shall be deemed to be the termination date of this Contract. If this Contract is terminated for convenience, the Smithsonian shall be liable only for payment for services rendered before the effective date of termination. Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided. I.10.3 Force Majeure. If either party is delayed or prevented from performing its obligations hereunder due to an act of God, fire, flood, labor dispute, war, riot, civil disturbance, terrorist act or credible threat of same, act of the U.S. Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of such party, such delay shall be excused during the continuance of and to the extent of such cause. However, if such delay

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 84 of 96

exceeds sixty (60) days, either party may terminate this Contract upon written notice to the other party, and all rights and obligations hereunder shall cease. I.10.4 Conduct Upon Termination. Upon termination, the parties shall proceed in an orderly fashion to terminate any outstanding commitments and to conclude the Work. The parties agree that in the case of termination, the parties respectively will return any original materials in possession at the time of termination furnished or owned by the other party in conjunction with the performance of this Contract. Upon termination or earlier expiration of the Term, Contractor will provide the Smithsonian with all Smithsonian data and Content provided hereunder within thirty (30) calendar days. All such Smithsonian data will be provided in a commonly used file or database format as the Smithsonian deems appropriate. Contractor shall delete from its files all Smithsonian data, including all data derived in any manner, in whole or in part from data provided by the Smithsonian. Certification of data removal will be performed by Contractor and written notification confirming certification will be delivered to the Smithsonian Contracting Officer within fifteen (15) calendar days of termination/expiration of this Contract. Furthermore, Consultant shall cease any use of the Smithsonian Names and shall not exploit in any manner its association with Smithsonian, unless the parties otherwise agree in the writing at the time of termination. I.11 Bankruptcy. The parties agree that continuous performance of this Contract by Contractor is critical, and that (for purposes of this Section) time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract. In the event Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether voluntary or involuntary, Contractor agrees to furnish, by certified mail, written notification of bankruptcy (including the date on which the bankruptcy petition was filed, the name and location of the court in which the petition was filed, and the Smithsonian Contract number as it appears on the first page of this Contract) to Smithsonian's Contracting Officer within five (5) days of the initiation of the proceedings relating to bankruptcy filing. In the event that Contractor is adjudicated a bankrupt or becomes a debtor under Title 11 of the U.S. Code, the parties agree that Smithsonian will suffer irreparable harm unless Contractor immediately elects either to assume or reject this Contract. Therefore, Contractor shall use its best efforts to move the court within fifteen (15) days of Contractor's filing its petition for bankruptcy to permit Contractor either to assume or reject this Contract, to request of the court a hearing on the matter on an emergency basis, and to schedule such hearing within no more than twenty-one (21) days from the date of Contractor's request. Smithsonian may terminate this Contract immediately and without penalty upon any breach of Contractor's obligations under this provision. Contractor shall deposit all source code for the Deliverables in escrow with a third party escrow agent where it shall be maintained, with any updates and upgrades as they are made, for the Term of this Contract until such time as the final Deliverables and Deliverables, including all source code and documentation, are delivered to and approved by Smithsonian. I.12 Miscellaneous I.12.1 No Assignment. This Contract may not be assigned by either party absent the prior written approval of the other party. This Contract shall be binding upon the heirs, assigns, executors, or administrators of the parties.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 85 of 96

I.12.2 Not a Partnership. This Contract does not create a partnership, principal/agent or joint venture relationship between the parties and nothing contained herein shall be construed as creating such relationship between the parties. Neither party shall have the power to obligate or bind each other, outside of the terms of this Contract, in any manner whatsoever. I.12.3 Independent Contractor. It is understood that Contractor is undertaking the work hereunder as an independent contractor, not as an employee of the Smithsonian, and neither Contractor nor Contractor's employees are eligible for Smithsonian benefits, including but not limited to, coverage under FECA (worker's compensation), FTCA (Federal Tort Claims Act) or coverage under any Smithsonian workers compensation, medical, liability or other insurance policy, or for legal protections afforded to employees under law applicable to employment relationships. Contractor is responsible for providing at Contractor's own expense and as necessary, disability, unemployment, worker's compensation and other insurance, including adequate liability and property insurance, training, permits and licenses for Contractor, its employees, if any, and subcontractors. Contractor is responsible for paying all taxes and income taxes, including estimated taxes, incurred as a result of the payments by the Smithsonian to Contractor for performance of all services required hereunder. Contractor agrees and acknowledges that Smithsonian assumes no responsibility whatsoever for the acts, errors and/or omissions of Contractor beyond those that the Smithsonian is responsible for at law. I.12.4 Amendment. Neither Party shall be bound by any definition, condition, warranty, representation, amendment, consent, or waiver, other than as expressly stated herein, unless set forth in a writing executed by both parties. I.12.5 No Waivers. The waiver by any party of a breach or default of any provision of this Contract by the other party shall not constitute a waiver by such party of any succeeding breach of the same or other provision; nor shall any delay or omission on the part of either party to exercise or avail itself of any right, power, or privilege that it has or may have hereunder, operate as a waiver of any such right, power, or privilege by such party. I.12.6 Governing Law. This Contract shall in all respects be interpreted and governed in accordance with the laws of the United States and the District of Columbia, regardless of the place of execution or performance, and without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof. I.12.7 Jointly Drafted. This Contract is jointly drafted by the parties and it shall not be construed against either party. I.12.8 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Contract has been made and is solely for the benefit of Smithsonian and Contractor. Nothing in this Contract is intended to confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Contract on any persons or entities other than the parties to it. Nothing in this Contract is intended to relieve or discharge the obligation or liability of any third persons or entities to any party to this Contract. I.12.9 Counterparts. This Contract may be executed in duplicate counterparts, each having the full legal effect of the other and each being deemed for all purposes as being an "original."

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 86 of 96

I.12.10 Severance. In the event that any term, clause, or provision of this Contract shall be construed to be or adjudged invalid, void, or unenforceable, such term, clause, or provision shall be construed as severed from this Contract, and the remaining terms, clauses, and provisions shall remain in effect. I.12.11 Additional Warranties. The persons signing this Contract for the respective party warrants and represents that such person has authority to sign this Contract and to bind the respective party to the terms and conditions herein. I.12.12 Entire Agreement. This Contract along with all attachments which are incorporated herein, constitutes the entire legal agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes any and all prior oral or written agreement or understanding between the parties regarding such subject matter. Section B
CONTRACT CLAUSES (in addition to those contained in I.A above, J.1. below and elsewhere herein)

1 52.203-3 Gratuities. (APR 1984) 2 52.203-5 Covenant Against Contingent Fees. (APR 1984)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 87 of 96

3 52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures. (JUL 1995) 4 52.203-8 Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity. (JAN 1997) 5 52.203-10 Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity. (JAN 1997) 6 52.203-12 Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. (SEP 2007) 7 52.203-13 Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. (DEC 2008) 8 52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper. (AUG 2000) 9 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration. (APR 2008) (not applicable) 10 52.204-10 Reporting Subcontract Awards. (SEP 2007) 11 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (SEP 2006) 12 52.215-2 Audit and Records - Negotiation. (MAR 2009) 13 (See Section H.5 above) 14 52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns. (MAY 2004) 15 52.219-9 Small Business Subcontracting Plan. (APR 2008) 16 52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation. (APR 2009) 17 52.222-1 Notice to the Government of Labor Disputes. (FEB 1997) 18 52.222-3 Convict Labor. (JUN 2003) 19 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities. (FEB 1999) 20 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity. (MAR 2007) 21 52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans. (SEP 2006) 22 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities. (JUN 1998) 23 52.222-37 Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans. (SEP 2006)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 88 of 96

24 52.222-39 Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees. (DEC 2004) 25 52.222-41 Service Contract Act of 1965. (NOV 2007) 26 52.222-42 Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires. (MAY 1989)
In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the Contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332. This Statement is for Information Only: It is not a Wage Determination Employee Class Monetary Wage - Fringe Benefits None unless changed by Modification to this Contract (End of clause)

27 52.222-43 Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act - Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts). (SEP 2009) 28 52.222-49 Service Contract Act - Place of Performance Unknown. (MAY 1989)
(a) This Contract is subject to the Service Contract Act, and the place of performance was unknown when the solicitation was issued. In addition to places or areas identified in wage determinations, if any, attached to the solicitation, wage determinations have also been requested for the following: [None at this time. Offerors are requested to obtain and apply the current applicable wage determination as expressed herein]. The Contracting Officer will request wage determinations for additional places or areas of performance if asked to do so in writing. (b) Offerors who intend to perform in a place or area of performance for which a wage determination has not been attached or requested may nevertheless submit bids or proposals. However, a wage determination shall be requested and incorporated in the resultant Contract retroactive to the date of Contract award, and there shall be no adjustment in the Contract price.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 89 of 96

29 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons. (FEB 2009) 30 52.222-52 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Certification. (NOV 2007) 31 52.222-53 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements. (FEB 2009) 32 52.228-11 Pledges of Assets. (SEP 2009) 33 52.229-3 Federal, State, and Local Taxes. (APR 2003) 34 52.229-4 Federal, State, and Local Taxes (State and Local Adjustments). (APR 2003) 35 52.232-18 Availability of Funds. (APR 1984) 36 52.232-23 Assignment of Claims. (JAN 1986) 37 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration. (OCT 2003) 38 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim. (OCT 2004) 39 52.236-25 Requirements for Registration of Designers. (JUN 2003) 40 52.237-3 Continuity of Services. (JAN 1991) 41 52.242-13 Bankruptcy. (JUL 1995) 42 52.242-14 Suspension of Work. (APR 1984) 43 52.243-1 Changes - Fixed-Price. (AUG 1987) - Alternate III (APR 1984) 44 52.244-4 Subcontractors and Outside Associates and Consultants (Architect-Engineer Services). (AUG 1998) 45 52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Items. (AUG 2009)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-"Commercial item" has the meaning contained in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101, Definitions. "Subcontract" includes a transfer of commercial items between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the Contractor or subcontractor at any tier. (b) To the maximum extent practicable, the Contractor shall incorporate, and require its subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, commercial items or nondevelopmental items as components of items to be supplied under this Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 90 of 96

(c)(1) The Contractor shall insert the following clauses in subcontracts for commercial items: (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)), if the subcontract exceeds $5,000,000 and has a performance period of more than 120 days. In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (ii) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5), if the subcontract is funded under the Recovery Act.(iii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), if the subcontract offers further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (MAY 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212(a)). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (g) of FAR clause 52.222-39). (viii) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (ix) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. App. 1241 and 10 U.S.C. 2631), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the Contractor may flow down to subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this Contract.

46 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference. (FEB 1998)
This Contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): https://www.acquisition.gov/far/index.html (End of clause)

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 91 of 96

47 52.253-1 Computer Generated Forms. (JAN 1991) 48 52.202-S0003 Definitions (Apr 1988)
When a solicitation provision or Contract clause uses a word or term that is defined in the Federal Acquisition Requlation (FAR), the word or term has the same meaning as the definition in FAR 2.101 in effect at the time the solicitation or Contract was issued, unless modified herein-(a) "Head of the agency," means the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. (b) "Contracting Officer" (C.O.) means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate Contracts and make related determinations and findings and to settle all claims. (c) "Government" means the Smithsonian Institution (S.I.). The Contracting Officer (C.O.) shall be deemed to be the authorized representative of Smithsonian The Smithsonian Institution shall hereinafter be referred to by its initials, "S.I.", or as "the Government". (d) "Contractor" means the person or persons, firm or company whose proposal has been accepted by S.I. and includes the Contractor's personal representatives, successors and assigns permitted by S.I. (e) "Contracting Officer's Technical Representative" (COTR) means the Project Manager appointed by the Contracting Officer to act as COTR for the purpose of the Contract. Written notification of the appointment or recession of such appointment shall be promptly furnished to the Contractor.

49 52.202-S0012 Specialist (Jun 2000)
The term "Specialist" as used in the Contract specification shall mean an individual or firm of established reputation (or, if newly organized, whose personnel have previously established a reputation in the same field), which is regularly engaged in, and which maintains a regular force of workmen skilled in either (as applicable) manufacturing or fabricating items required by the Contract, installing items required by the Contract or otherwise performing work required by the Contract. Where the Contract specification requires installation by a specialist, that term shall also be deemed to mean either the manufacturer of the item, an individual or firm licensed by the manufacturer, or an individual or firm who will perform the work under the manufacturer's direct supervision.

50 52.209-S0042 Subcontractor Eligibility (Jun 2000)
a) In connection with the performance of work under this Contract, the Contractor shall not subcontract with any subcontractor who, at the time of subcontract award, is listed on the current Excluded Parties List, unless otherwise authorized by the Government in accordance with Subpart 9.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. (b) Prior to award of the prime contract, the Excluded Parties List will be available for inspection at the Business Service Center in the GSA regional office. After Contract award, the Contractor may obtain a copy of the current list from the Contracting Officer. (c) In the event of the Contractor's noncompliance with the foregoing requirements, the Government may terminate this Contract for default or take other appropriate action, including, but not limited to, requiring the Contractor to terminate any such subcontract and substitute and eligible subcontractor in lieu thereof, at no increase in the Contract price or time for performance. (d) The term "subcontractor," as used in this clause, shall mean the individual or firm with whom the Contractor proposes to enter into a subcontract for manufacturing, fabricating, installing, or otherwise performing work under this Contract. (e) The Contractor shall include the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this clause in every subcontract

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 92 of 96 hereunder.

51 52.232-S0005 Interest on Payments
The Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. Section 3901), is not applicable to the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian Institution shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that payment for invoice(s) properly documented and submitted shall be paid within 30 days from receipt of an approved proper invoice(s) by the COTR.

52 52.233-S0006 Disputes
(a) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IS NOT SUBJECT TO THE CONTRACT DISPUTES ACT. The Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601-613) is not applicable to the Smithsonian Institution. All disputes arising under or relating to this Contract shall be resolved under this clause. (b) CLAIMS. "Claims", as used in this clause, means a written demand or written assertion by one of the contracting parties seeking, as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation of Contract terms, or other relief arising under or relating to this Contract. A claim arising under a Contract, unlike a claim relating to that Contract, is a claim that can be resolved under a Contract clause that provides for the relief sought by the claimant. However, a written demand or written assertion by the Contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding $50,000 is not a claim until certified as required by subparagraph (c)(ii) below. A voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not in dispute when submitted is not a claim. If the submission is disputed, either as to liability or amount, or if it is not acted upon in a reasonable time, it may be converted to a claim by complying with the submission and certification requirements of this clause. (c) CLAIMS PROCEDURE. (1) SUBMITTING CLAIMS. A claim by the Contractor shall be made in writing and submitted to the Contracting Officer for a written decision. A claim by the Smithsonian Institution against the Contractor shall be subject to a written decision by the Contracting Officer. (2) CERTIFICATION OF CLAIMS. For Contractor claims exceeding $50,000, the Contractor shall submit with the claim a certification that: (i) The claim is made in good faith; (ii) Supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief; and (iii) The amount requested accurately reflects the Contract adjustment for which the Contractor believes the Smithsonian Institution is liable. (3) WHO SHALL CERTIFY. If the Contractor is an individual, the certification shall be executed by that individual. If the Contractor is not an individual, the certification shall be executed by: (i) A senior company official in charge at the Contractor's plant or location involved; or (ii) An officer or general partner of the Contractor having overall responsibility for the conduct of the Contractor's affairs. (d) TIME LIMITS FOR CLAIMS DECISIONS. For Contractor claims of $50,000 or less, the Contracting Officer must, if requested in writing by the Contractor, render a decision within 60 days, decide the claim or notify the Contractor of the date by which the decision will be made. (e) APPEALS. The decision of the Contracting Officer shall be final and conclusive unless, within 30 days from the date of receipt of such copy, the Contractor mails or otherwise furnishes to the Contracting Officer a written appeal addressed to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The decision of the Smithsonian Institution Secretary or

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 93 of 96 his duly authorized representative for the determination of such appeals shall be final and conclusive unless determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been fraudulent, or capricious, or arbitrary, or so grossly erroneous as necessarily to imply bad faith, or not supported by substantial evidence. In connection with any appeal proceeding under this clause, the Contractor shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of its appeal. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this Contract, pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal, or action arising under the Contract, and comply with any decision of the Contracting Officer. (f) INTEREST ON CLAIMS. The Smithsonian Institution shall pay interest on the amount found due and unpaid from: (1) the date the Contracting Officer receives the claim (properly certified if required), or (2) the date payment otherwise would be due, if that date is later, until the date of payment. Simple interest on claims shall be paid at the rate, fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, which is applicable to the period during which the Contracting Officer receives the claim and then at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury during the pendency of the claim.

53 52.243-S0054 Technical Directives
(a) Performance of work under this Contract is subject to the review and direction of the Contracting Officer or his duly authorized representative. Pursuant to this authority, the Contracting Officer, Project Manager, or Resident Project Manager, may issue technical directives within the scope of the Contract statement of work without notice to sureties, if any, for the purpose of: (1) Filling in previously unspecified details of the technical requirement; (2) Shifting emphasis between work areas or tasks, or requiring the pursuit or cessation of certain approaches or lines of inquiry; (3) Approving technical reports, drawings, specifications, and other technical data; (4) Providing guidance, advice definitions, and other information which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications, or other technical aspects of the work description. (b) Directives which have an impact on the total Contract costs, or which have the effect of relieving the Contractor of responsibilities for which he has contracted, will not be issued under this Contract clause. Such directives will be issued by the Contracting Officer under other provisions of this Contract. Technical directives will be issued in writing by the Contracting Officer, Project Manager, or Resident Project Manager. (c) The Contractor will promptly acknowledge in writing to the Contracting Officer the receipt of all technical directives and will comply with all such technical directives in accordance with their terms. However, if the Contractor deems that acceptance of a particular technical directive would change any Contract provision, including stated technical, schedule, cost, incentive or other Contract provisions, or effects any other change which would, if directed by the Contracting Officer under any other provision of this Contract, create a right to an equitable adjustment on the part of either of the contracting parties, or if the Contractor takes technical exception to a technical directive or questions its contractual authority, he will so notify the Contracting officer in writing within five (5) working days after receipt of the technical directive. If the Contracting Officer agrees with the Contractor's finding, he will, within ten (l0) working days, either ratify the technical directive by issuance of an appropriate Contract modification, or rescind the Technical Directive. If the Contracting Officer determines that the technical directive is valid and appropriate as originally issued, he will so notify the Contractor in writing within ten (l0) working days, and the Contractor will proceed with the work thereunder. (d) Failure of the contracting parties to agree hereunder shall be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause of this Contract entitled "Disputes."

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 94 of 96

54 52.249-S0049 Non-Compliance with Contract Requirements (Jun 2000)
In the event the Contractor, after receiving written notice from the Contracting Officer of non-compliance with any requirements of this Contract, fails to initiate promptly such action as may be appropriate to comply with the specified requirement within a reasonable period of time, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to order the Contractor to stop any and all work under the Contract until the Contractor has complied or has initiated such action as may be appropriate to comply within a reasonable period of time. The Contractor will not be entitled to any extension of Contract time or payment for costs incurred as a result of being ordered to stop work for such cause.

55 52.252-S0011 Notice of Deviation in Clauses (Jun 2000)
TAKE NOTICE, that these Construction Contract Clauses (Fixed Price) may contain language and clauses and/or paragraph headings or names which appear similar to, or the same as the "Federal Acquisition Regulation Construction Contract Clauses", "General Services Administration Regulation Construction Contract Clauses (Fixed Price)", and provisions of the "General Conditions of the Contract for Construction", published by the American Institute of Architects, AIA Document A-201, 1976 Edition. TAKE NOTICE, however, that these Construction Contract Clauses (Fixed Price) are substantially and materially different in many respects from the FAR, GSAR and AIA Document A-201 and that certain additions, deletions or other modifications have been made to provisions similar to those contained in the FAR, GSAR and the AIA Document A-201. This document, further, contains provisions which do not appear in the FAR, GSAR and the AIA Document A-201.

56 252.203-7001 Prohibition on Persons Convicted of Fraud or Other Defense-ContractRelated Felonies (Dec 2004)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-(1) "Arising out of a Contract with the Department of Defense," means any act in connection with(i) Attempting to obtain, (ii) Obtaining, or (iii) Performing a Contract or first-tier subcontract of any agency, department, or component of the Department of Defense (DoD). (2) "Conviction of fraud or any other felony" means any conviction for fraud or a felony in violation of state or Federal criminal statutes, whether entered on a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendre, for which sentence has been imposed. (3) "Date of conviction" means the date judgment was entered against the individual. (b) Any individual who is convicted after September 29, 1988, of fraud or any other felony arising out of a Contract with the DoD is prohibited from servingż (1) In a management or supervisory capacity on this Contract; (2) On the board of directors of the Contractor; (3) As a consultant, agent, or representative for the Contractor; or (4) In any other capacity with the authority to influence, advise, or control the decisions of the Contractor with regard to this Contract. (c) Unless waived, the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this clause applies for not less than 5 years from the date of

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 95 of 96 conviction. (d) 10 U.S.C. 2408 provides that the Contractor shall be subject to a criminal penalty of not more than $500,000 if convicted of knowingly -(1) Employing a person under a prohibition specified in paragraph (b) of this clause; or (2) Allowing such a person to serve on the board of directors of the Contractor or first-tier subcontractor. (e) In addition to the criminal penalties contained in 10 U.S.C. 2408, the Government may consider other available remedies, such as -(1) Suspension or debarment; (2) Cancellation of the Contract at no cost to the Government; or (3) Termination of the Contract for default. (f) The Contractor may submit written requests for waiver of the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this clause to the Contracting Officer. Requests shall clearly identify -(1) The person involved; (2) The nature of the conviction and resultant sentence or punishment imposed; (3) The reasons for the requested waiver; and (4) An explanation of why a waiver is in the interest of national security. (g) The Contractor agrees to include the substance of this clause, appropriately modified to reflect the identity and relationship of the parties, in all first-tier subcontracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold in Part 3 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, except those for commercial items or components. (h) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2408(c), defense contractors and subcontractors may obtain information as to whether a particular person has been convicted of fraud or any other felony arising out of a contract with the DoD by contracting the Office of Justice Programs, The Denial of Federal Benefits Office, U.S. Department of Justice, telephone (301) 809-4904.

57 252.227-7022 Government Rights (Unlimited) (Mar 1979)
The Government shall have unlimited rights, in all drawings, designs, specifications, notes and other works developed in the performance of this Contract, including the right to use same on any other Government design or construction without additional compensation to the Contractor. The Contractor hereby grants to the government a paid-up license throughout the world to all such works to which he may assert or establish any claim under design patent or copyright laws. The Contractor for a period of three (3)years after completion of the project agrees to furnish the original or copies of all such works on the request of the Contracting Officer.

Section J - List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments. The following documents are either attached hereto and incorporated herein or incorporated herein by reference: J.1 Statement of Work, Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of History Website Redesign, dated October 1, 2012.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation #F13SOL10001 : Lemelson Center Website Renovation and Expansion page 96 of 96

J.2 IT-940-01, Technical Reference Model Version 8.0, May 2009 ­ Office of the Chief Information Officer, Smithsonian Institution. J.3 Contractor's Proposal. Section K ­ Representations and Certifications. The Contractor certifies that they have completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Deliverables (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the Contractor verifies by execution of this Contract that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this Contract and are incorporated herein by reference. The certification regarding previous crimes, debarments, suspensions, and defaults contained in Contractor's ORCA is a material representation of fact upon which the Smithsonian relies when making award. If it is later determined that the certification was erroneous, in addition to other remedies available to the Smithsonian, the Smithsonian reserves the right to terminate this Contract for default.

