

Drug Information Source for MedlinePlus – Statement of Work


1.  Background Information

To assist consumers in obtaining the information they need to make informed decisions about health and wellness, the National Library of
Medicine (NLM) has developed MedlinePlus (http://medlineplus.gov), an easily understandable Web resource for the public.  MedlinePlus contains
and links to information from authoritative health Web sites and content providers, especially those from the National Institutes of Health.
NLM makes MedlinePlus available to the public through a variety of MedlinePlus-branded Web sites, Web services, Web applications, APIs, email
and social media communications, XML files and search results.

2.  Purpose and Objectives of the Procurement

NLM intends to license drug information in English and Spanish to assist the public in locating information about prescription and over-the-
counter medications via MedlinePlus.  “MedlinePlus” means all MedlinePlus branded full and mobile Web sites, Web services, Web applications,
APIs, email and social media communications, XML files and search results.

3.  Mandatory Content Requirements

   1. At least 1,000 English monographs.
   2. Equivalent content in Spanish.
   3. The ability to identify equivalent English and Spanish monographs.  The vendor must describe how they associate equivalent English and
      Spanish monographs within the data provided for each monograph.
   4. The ability to toggle between all English and Spanish monographs at the individual, equivalent monograph level.
   5. Coverage of both prescription and over-the-counter medications.
   6. Coverage of both single ingredient medications and combination ingredient medications.
   7. Each monograph must include the ingredient (generic) name for the medication that is used in the United States, alternate or synonymous
      medication names, when applicable, and associated brand names and brand names of combination products used in the United States.
   8. A stand-alone file that maps all of the relevant RxNorm Concept Unique Identifiers (RXCUIs), including, at a minimum, all relevant Semantic
      Clinical Dose Form (SCDF) RXCUIs, to each monograph.  The file must include, at a minimum, the monograph ID, the English monograph name,
      the SCDF RXCUI and the SCDF RXCUI name.  If the English and Spanish monograph IDs are not identical for equivalent English/Spanish
      monographs, then the file must also include both the English monograph ID and the Spanish monograph ID and must indicate the equivalent
      relationship between the two.  The file must be delivered at the same time as the monograph updates, and the file must reflect the most
      recent monograph content.  RXCUI mappings embedded within each individual monograph XML file are also acceptable.  Embedded mappings must
      also include, at a minimum, all relevant Semantic Clinical Dose Form (SCDF) RXCUIs for the given monograph.
   9. We expect that RXCUI mappings will be identical for the equivalent English & Spanish monographs.  If there is ever a circumstance where the
      mapping would differ between the equivalent English & Spanish monographs, the vendor must describe this circumstance and how they handle it
      from an editorial perspective and within the stand-alone mapping file or embedded mappings.
  10. The vendor must explain their process of mapping monographs to RXCUIs and their process for updating and maintaining those mappings.
  11. All content must be free of commercial endorsements or advertisements.
  12. The vendor must describe the typical contents of each monograph or each class of monograph if there are multiple classes of them.  Contents
      may include, but are not limited to, information on why a medication is prescribed, how it is used, precautions, side effects,
      interactions, storage, missed doses and overdose information.  The vendor must list the topics or sections that they cover on each
      monograph and describe the contents of those topics/sections.
  13. The vendor must describe their process for keeping monograph content up to date.
  14. The vendor must describe how they keep up with, display, and make editorial decisions about FDA warnings at the monograph level for both
      English and Spanish monographs. Examples of warnings include, but are not limited to, safety alerts, ongoing safety reviews, safety
      communications and notices of withdrawal from market.
  15. The vendor must address whether or not they provide FDA approval status at the monograph level.
  16. The intended audience for the monographs must be general health information consumers in the United States.  The vendor must describe how
      they address the needs of a U.S. consumer audience in their writing and in their editorial policies.
  17. Monographs must be written in consumer friendly language.  In the response, the vendor must indicate the reading or grade level.  The
      vendor must include the measurement scale used to determine the reading or grade level.
  18. Spanish monographs must be in culturally neutral Spanish appropriate for a U.S. consumer audience, not written or narrated in the style or
      vocabulary of a particular Spanish nationality.  The vendor must describe their translation procedures, including quality control
      procedures.
  19. The vendor must deliver updated monograph and mapping file content to NLM at least once a month.  The response must include the vendor’s
      regular update schedule and a description of the content of the update and the delivery mechanism.
  20. When NLM identifies major content issues, NLM will communicate the issue with the vendor.  The vendor must describe their procedure and
      turn-around time for content updates, including procedures and timelines for emergency content updates.
  21. NLM will forward to the vendor any feedback received from users regarding content.  The vendor must describe their procedure for reviewing
      this feedback, incorporating this feedback into their editorial cycle, and following-up with NLM on any action taken.

Preferred Content Features (not mandatory)

   1. Within the stand-alone file that maps all of the relevant RXCUIs or within the RXCUIs embedded in the individual monograph XML files,
      additional RXCUI mappings of the following term types may be included for each monograph.  Note: SCDF mappings are required.  See
      “Mandatory Content Requirements” above.
     a) BPCK – Brand Name Pack    
     b) BN – Brand Name         
     c) SCDC – Semantic Clinical Drug Component    
     d) SCD – Semantic Clinical Drug       
     e) SBD – Semantic Branded Drug       
     f) SBDC – Semantic Branded Drug Component    
     g) GPCK – Generic Pack    
     h) SBDF – Semantic Branded Drug Form     
   2. If the vendor provides the RXCUI mappings in a stand-alone file, the stand-alone file includes the Spanish monograph name for each entry.
   3. A pronunciation guide for the monograph name (ingredient/generic name).
   4. Pill images with meaningful alt text in both English and Spanish.  The vendor must provide an identifier for linking the pill images to the
      appropriate English & Spanish monographs.  If the vendor offers pill images, they must include at least 5 sample images with their
      proposal.  The vendor must also describe or demonstrate how they associate individual pill image files to individual English and Spanish
      monograph XML files.  The pill images must be delivered at the same time as the monograph updates, and the pill images must reflect the
      most recent monograph content.
   5. Citations or references, with PubMed links, in each monograph.
   6. Relative links to other monographs in the collection.
   7. Indicate any other special features available.

4.  Mandatory Technical Requirements
   1. Delivery of monographs in well-formed, valid XML format with an accompanying DTD.
   2. Delivery of individual XML files for each monograph in each language – One XML file for the English monograph and a separate XML file for
      the equivalent Spanish monograph.
   3. Delivery of monograph-to-SCDF RXCUI mappings in a stand-alone CSV or XML file (XML is preferred but CSV is acceptable) or embedded within
      each individual monograph XML file.
   4. Allow NLM to host all of the vendor-provided content on NLM servers, including pill images, if applicable.
   5. Allow for MedlinePlus co-branding on drug information pages.
   6. The awardee will be required to provide NLM with technical support and advanced delivery of the content files within 2 weeks of being
      selected by NLM so that NLM can implement the co-branded content pages and links to these pages on MedlinePlus-branded sites, services and
      files.
   7. When NLM identifies major technical issues, NLM will communicate the issue with the vendor.  The vendor must describe their procedure and
      turn-around time for technical fixes, including procedures and timelines for emergency fixes.
   8. Accessibility of content:  All electronic content must meet Section 508 Guidelines.  See the more specific requirements below regarding
      Section 508 Compliance.

5. Section 508 Requirements
Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that Federal agencies' electronic and information technology is accessible to people with
disabilities.  The drug information and associated mapping file must be Section 508 compliant. Specifically, the end product must be conformant
with all applicable provisions, including:

1194.41 Information, documentation, and support.

These provisions can be found at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/standards.htm.

Section 508 Program Need

Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the
following program need: "Drug Information Source for MedlinePlus."

Section 508 Product Requirements

Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition.
Solicitation respondents must describe how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT)
deliverables meet at least the information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government
Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Section 508 Evaluation Factors

Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the
requirements for Section 508.  Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508
requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation) will be eligible for any additional merit consideration.

If the deliverable proposed in response to this solicitation includes features and functions in addition to those identified as requirements,
these features and functions also need to conform to relevant Section 508 technical provisions, functional performance criteria, and
information, documentation and support. The accessibility of these additional features and functions should be described in the completed GPAT,
VPAT or equivalent supporting information.

Section 508 Acceptance Criteria

The drug information licensed as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508
requirements for accessibility.  The drug information vendor must include a completed GPAT, a sample of which is included as a part of this
solicitation.

If the deliverable includes features and functions in addition to those identified as requirements, these features and functions also need to
conform to relevant Section 508 technical provisions, functional performance criteria, and information, documentation and support.

6.  Additional Requirements

   1. Features and product offerings will be evaluated as they exist at the time of proposal submission.  Beta releases and planned updates will
      not be considered.
   2. Include the cost for licensing this product. The cost must be an annual flat fee for providing the content to users of any MedlinePlus
      branded Web site, the ability for end-users of MedlinePlus-branded sites to print, email and share links to the content for individual,
      personal use, and for providing links to the content on any MedlinePlus branded Web service, Web application, API, email and social media
      communication, XML file and search result.
   3. Include a sample license agreement governing the use of the content on all MedlinePlus-branded Web sites, Web services, Web applications,
      APIs, email and social media communications, XML files and search results.  The license agreement must also address NLM’s rights related to
      the sharing of links to the content on MedlinePlus-branded sites, services, applications, communications, files and search results.
   4. Include your copyright statement and any required disclaimers in both English and Spanish.
   5. If the vendor requires their logo to be displayed on all vendor-supplied content pages, the logo must be smaller than 70x70 pixels and NLM
      must be allowed to determine the placement of the logo on the content pages.  Include a sample of the logo (in English and Spanish if the
      logo differs in each language) and any display requirements.
   6. Provide a list of at least three other organizations that license the content, along with accompanying Web site URLs.  Provide at least
      three references that NLM can contact.
   7. Provide a copy of your customer service policy, or other evidence of your commitment to customer service.
   8. Provide a copy of your editorial policies and procedures.  Also include the names and affiliations of the members of your editorial and/or
      medical board.
   9. The vendor must have policies/procedures in place regarding the quality control of the drug information and associated RXCUI mapping file.
      Provide these policies/procedures in your response.
  10. Include 5 English monographs and their Spanish equivalents in both XML format and an example of the final presentation format.
  11. Include your DTD.
  12. Include a sample of the stand-alone monograph-to-RXCUI mapping file that covers at least 10% of the entire monograph collection being
      offered, including the 5 example monographs required in #8 above.  If the RXCUI mappings will be embedded in the monograph XML, provide
      those embedded mappings in the 5 example monographs required in #8 above.


<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F12-322-ci-syn-sol-gpat.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F12-322-ci-syn-sol-gpat.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>