SECTION 1 ­ SUPPLIES OR SERVICES/PRICES 1.1 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES The services required under this contract consist of implementing platform and technical infrastructure for ASPE websites, implementing an open source web content management system, website and database migration, and website redesign services. 1.2 TYPE OF CONTRACT Time & Materials. 1.3 TASK ORDER PRICE

The services under this purchase order are Time & Materials. Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs) 1, 4 and 5 are for non-severable services and CLIN 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8 are for severable services. CLINs 2 & 3 have a base and four options numbered as sub-CLINs 2.1-2.4 and 3.1-3.4 respectively. CLINs 6, 7, and 8 are each one-year options. The total amount for this purchase order including all eight (8) CLINs and all sub-CLINs is $__TBD____. 1.4 PAYMENT SCHEDULE

The Contractor shall be paid upon completion and acceptance (if deliverable) or verification (if service) by the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), of the deliverables and/or services for the reporting period. Invoices shall be submitted monthly in accordance with the FAR 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions -Commercial Items (May 2014), Alternate I (May 2014) and Section 6.2 below. In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work as described throughout this contract, the Contractor shall be paid in accordance with the fixed loaded hourly rates as shown herein for the specified categories of labor based on the number of actual hours incurred in the performance of the work specified. Fully loaded rates shall be all inclusive of direct labor, fringe benefits, applicable indirect costs, and any profit for each labor category. The Contractor shall be reimbursed up to the purchase order ceiling for hours actually worked. Additionally, the contractor shall be paid for materials directly chargeable to this contract. All CLINs are priced as follows: CLIN 1 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours

Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD

Page 1 of 52

CLIN 2.0 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours

Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 2.1 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 2.2 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 2.3 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 2.4 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Page 2 of 52

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 3.0 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 3.1 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 3.2 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 3.3 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs

$TBD $TBD $TBD
Page 3 of 52

Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 3.4 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 4 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 5 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 6 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD

Page 4 of 52

CLIN 7 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours

Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price CLIN 8 - Time and Materials Labor Categories Estimated Hours Fixed Loaded Hourly Rate

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD Total Estimated Cost Per Category

Total Direct Labor Travel Other Direct Costs Total Travel and ODCs Total Ceiling Price SECTION 2 ­ DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS 2.1 ­ STATEMENT OF WORK PURPOSE & BACKGROUND

$TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD $TBD

The Office of Planning and Policy Support (OPPS) in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation (ASPE) manages the policy and evaluation information resource for leadership and staff of ASPE and HHS officials, including those in the Office of the Secretary. In collaboration with other information and technology services, OPPS provides access to policy and evaluation information for a broad audience of Federal, State, and local government officials, health and human services researchers, and practitioners. The purpose of this contract is to: 1) Implement platform and technical infrastructure supporting ASPE websites and associated databases, database applications, datasets, and software development environments; 2) Implement a web content management system (WCMS or CMS) and software package similar to SharePoint Foundation or Drupal with a strong preference for open-source (see details below) 3) Redesign ASPE's public website and intranet website; 4) Migrate these websites and associated databases to an open source WCMS; and 5) Modernize two database applications. OBJECTIVES Overall Objectives, Intent, and Vision ASPE's overall objective is to implement a world-class web presence, content dissemination strategy and
Page 5 of 52

brand recognition for the Secretary's policy development and related activities in policy coordination, legislation development, strategic planning, policy research, evaluation, and economic analysis. ASPE intends to utilize various output methods, responsive design principles and social sharing functionality to increase its digital presence by making content more findable, usable, searchable, and sharable by targeted audiences. Current Structure ˇ Websites and web applications are legacy ColdFusion 9.0, with MS-Access and MySQL databases. ˇ See appendix for complete details o ASPE public-facing website, Evaluation Database, REMIS Database, & Intranet Four Phases This requirement will be broken down into three phases: ˇ Phase 1 ­ WCMS, Public-facing Website & Evaluation Database Redevelopment ˇ Phase 2 ­ REMIS Database Redevelopment ˇ Phase 3 ­ Intranet Redevelopment ˇ Phase 4 ­ WCMS Ongoing Maintenance, Enhancements, and Upgrades All Phases require that the contractor shall: ˇ Lead and collaborate with COR and workgroups in a series of requirements sessions and develop recommendations and approaches to satisfy their objectives and purposes. Results of the sessions will generate business requirements, business logic and rules, functionality and system documentation. ˇ Ensure deliverables adhere to ASPE's requirements, HHS web and Digital Government standards, policies and guidelines and HHS Security requirements. For detailed information, go to http://www.hhs.gov/web/policies/index.html, http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/securityprivacy/index.html, http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2013/05/23/digital-strategy-delivering-better-results-public. ˇ Provide recommendations, approaches, & project plans with key milestones and deliverables. ˇ Furnish the necessary personnel, materials, services, facilities, (except as otherwise specified herein), and otherwise do all things necessary for or incidental to the performance of the work as set forth below to conduct the work in this contract and produce a range of deliverables. ˇ Follow a test-driven development and agile method with formal and automated unit testing approach. Project Requirements apply to all phases (i.e. ALL CLINs), where applicable. (COR to Advise) The Project Requirements section includes defining requirements for ASPE's Intranet, extranet, Evaluation, and REMIS applications. *Note: While the following requirements and subtasks have been identified to accomplish our objectives, we are open to alternative approaches that may better meet our needs. Offerors may propose a more innovative approach, but should detail accordingly. Subtask 1.1: Site Audit: Content inventory, sitemap and content disposition The Contractor shall: 1. Perform content disposition, including mapping existing content to new architecture, archiving, and overall content disposition. 2. Utilize the inventory as a tracking mechanism to validate the mapping of content to the architecture in the redesigned website. 3. Provide the following deliverables:
Page 6 of 52

a. Comprehensive site audit, inventory, sitemap, and disposition. Subtask 1.2: Content Strategy: Content Structure and Information Architecture The Contractor shall 1. Optimize user experience, improve findability, local site search and filtering, Google search, and support ASPE's marketing and content dissemination strategy. 2. Ensure it manages discrete pieces of content and data which can be tagged, shared, secured, and mashed up and presented in the way that is most useful for the audience and renders content in multiple contexts regardless of where that content lives. 3. Provide the following deliverables: a. User-focused, information-centric content strategy/model & site architecture development. Subtask 1.3: Keywords: MetaData, Tags, Search, Filtering, and Search Engine Optimization The contractor shall: 1. Perform keyword and tagging taxonomy and develop well-structured metadata/tagging model that identifies the type and structure of metadata so that the content can be used/reused, in ways that are meaningful to key audiences, informs our content dissemination plan, targets customers based on their decisions, and implement a search strategy to edit and organize the content on a page or across a website to increase potential relevance to specific search engine keywords and audiences. 2. Create an automated method to add, update, delete tagging content across website pages, content items and parts of pages. 3. Preserve and enhance SEO recognition with crawlers and search engines. 4. Develop/implement analytics, page-level surveys, & improvements over time on those findings. 5. Provide the following deliverables: a. Taxonomy included in the content model and information architecture b. Keywords, MetaData, and tagging plan; Taxonomy; & Survey and analytics code c. Implement Keywords, MetaData, & tagging plan; Taxonomy; & Survey/analytics code Subtask 1.4: Visual Design The contractor shall provide the following deliverables: 1. Initial Reviews a. Multiple are likely needed, depending upon COR approval i. Landing page wireframe layouts and mock-up designs. ii. Secondary page wireframe layouts and mock-up designs. iii. Search results page wireframe layouts and mock-up designs. 2. Implement COR & Workgroup feedback and refine wireframe and mock-up designs a. Multiple revisions may be needed, depending upon COR approval: i. Landing page wireframe layouts ii. Secondary page wireframe layout iii. Search results page wireframe layout 3. Finalize wireframe and design a. Prototype from layout, design and include navigation and functional elements. Subtask 1.5: Iterative Usability Testing (UT) and Related Assessments of Website The Contractor shall: 1. Create iterative UT plan, conduct UT and assess user performance, site performance and satisfaction. 2. Ensure UT includes the following deliverables:
Page 7 of 52

a. Develop and implement UT Plan & Conduct UT & Implement Surveys and Google Analytics b. Summarize UT results and Report improvement recommendations c. Implement improvement recommendations 3. Ensure website effectiveness includes customer focus and experience metrics as well as quality and compliance metrics. Subtask 1.6: Website Content and Data Migration The Contractor shall: 1. Provide a Content and Data Migration Plan 2. Migrate content to the new site and within the content management system 3. Ensure ASPE staff can access new site from the HHS network and through VPN. Subtask 1.7: Continuous Quality Assurance, Quality Improvement, and Section 508 Accessibility The Contractor shall continually: 1. Monitor site performance to assure that it functions without errors, meets or exceeds standard page load times and delivers content quickly without delay to the end user. 2. Design and execute Site Scans (SS), using SS reports to fix quality problems, including broken links, and make recommendations for process improvements based on SS analysis. 3. Document findings, make improvement recommendations, and Implement recommendations. 4. Use Google Analytics and surveys, at a minimum, to track and analyze usage patterns and user behavior for the purposes of continuous quality control in improvement. 5. Respond to all challenges or functionality that does not meet standards to the COR Immediately. 6. Provide support to the COR for the Enterprise Performance Life Cycle (EPLC) and Authority To Operate (ATO) Compliance activities. The HHS (EPLC) methodology incorporates best practices through a consistent and repeatable process, and provides a standard structure for planning, managing and overseeing IT projects over their entire life cycle. The EPLC framework consists of ten life cycle phases. Within each phase, activities, responsibilities, reviews, and deliverables are defined. Exit criteria are established for each phase and Stage Gate reviews are conducted through the IT Governance process through the project life cycle phases. 7. Provide the following deliverables: a. Produce drafts and final versions of: i. EPLC Framework artifacts ii. ATO Framework artifacts PROJECT MANAGEMENT Kick-Off Meeting 1. Meeting Description a. The Contracting Officer and COR shall hold a Kick-Off meeting in Washington, DC with contractor's team and relevant Government staff to review and clarify the project's objectives, expectations from the Government, and address any questions the Contractor may have. b. The Contractor shall provide and collaborate with the COR on an agenda for this meeting. Discussion topics shall include, but not be limited to: introduction of the Contractor and Government staff; understanding of the specific tasks and subtasks; project management expectations; agreement on meeting schedules; and agreement on initial delivery dates. 2. Establishing Roles & Responsibilities

Page 8 of 52

Develop Project Management Plan (PMP) The Contractor shall develop a Project Management Plan to include: 1. Timeline identifying start dates, completion dates, and other interim milestones for each task and subtask to measure progress toward final delivery dates. Where there are interdependencies among tasks, the plan shall indicate the relationships between one task and another. 2. All aspects of a traditional software development life cycle plan but allow for rapid iterative creation of functional models and deployments. It should be modified as necessary to reflect work progress and/or priority changes agreed upon between the Contractor and the COR. Weekly and Monthly Progress Reports and Annual Report The Contractor shall: 1. Prepare short weekly & monthly progress reports to the COR on the project. 2. Provide weekly progress reports, which include: a. Current and projected resource allocations, work plans, critical path milestones, risks, delays, mitigation suggestions and current and projected burn rate. b. An executive brief in PowerPoint format. 3. Provide monthly reports, which include: a. Brief summaries of accomplishments in each month, b. Problems encountered, solved, and remaining, c. Proposed next steps for the project, d. Status reports on all tasks, e. Expenditures by CLIN, modification, task, labor category, and shall be cumulative over time showing beginning balance, remaining balance in dollars and percentage of total budget. f. Forecasted expenditures to determine burn rate. 4. Provide to the COR electronic copies of itemized invoices at the time they are electronically submitted to the Program Support Center (PSC) for payment. The invoices shall include detailed budget information, option period, modification, task, labor category for the month and in the aggregate, including the beginning balance and for each billing cycle, the amount spent, and the remaining balance again by modification, labor category, task. 5. Submit to the COR an Annual Reports during each year. The reports shall describe at a minimum the Contractor's accomplishments of the year, timeliness of the project, and whether the project is within budget. The reports should highlight any unique solutions or particularly difficult issues that the Contractor resolved, quantify accomplishments. Issue Tracking System The Contractor shall: 1. Provide a web-based issue management system for contractor to submit, track and report issues. ASPE staff will use this system as a management tool to identify recurring issues, duration of time to fix, number of issues in a release cycle, and monitor status and history of any reported issue. Examples of issues are, search box is missing on site template, in-focus doesn't maintain when search results are filtered, and redirect isn't working. 2. Implement the tracking system and utilize it during contract. System documentation and Training The Contractor shall: 1. Provide all system documentation and training to ASPE staff (in-person, video, and via webinar)
Page 9 of 52

2. Develop and provide effective training materials of all deliverables, including, but not limited to, "train the trainer" documentation. 3. Conduct "train the trainer" sessions to ASPE staff. 4. Consult with the COR to determine what is appropriate, effective and essential. Transfer & Transition of all deliverables, products, and materials to the Government Transition Plan The Contractor shall: 1. Ensure and agree that all deliverables, products, licenses, source code, configuration settings and files, and materials developed throughout this contract will be the property of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 2. Provide, at contract conclusion, transition plan for all deliverables, products, and materials. 3. Coordinate with the COR and potentially another vendor, and implement the Transition Plan according to the COR's direction. 4. Provide assistance to the COR and potentially another vendor to stand-up and ensure the applications, systems, databases, platform, and environments are tested and fully operational. 5. Provide, by no later than the eighth month of the final performance period, a written project transition plan that describes the transition of all relevant files, source code, materials, licenses, and other project work to either the Government or a new Contractor (as applicable). 6. Ensure the transition plan includes a detailed inventory of all files, materials, etc. that will be submitted along with detailed instructions to seamlessly setup the websites, applications, databases, systems, platform, etc. At that time, all files, materials, boxes, etc. shall be clearly labeled, packaged and indexed according to the inventory. Transition Activities 1. During the transition to the Government and/or a new Contractor, the Contractor shall perform all necessary transition activities, including, but not limited to, continued full services to HHS and other customers; participation, at discretion of COR in five or more meetings with the Government or new Contractor to effect a smooth transition and provide detailed information on operation of website; training of new personnel (Contractor or Government) during transition period, in all system operation & maintenance functions; appropriate close-out of outstanding technical and related work. 2. All hardware, software, materials, products, licenses, source code, and data produced or acquired with contract funds, or under Contractor's control as Government Furnished Property or Materials shall be turned over to Government or new Contractor in good condition. All data and supporting documentation shall be submitted, including the website, data files, analytic data files (with associated instructions and codebook listing and defining all variables), and public use data files with associated documentation. Unless underlying data used are leased or proprietary, analytic files (where source files are reduced in volume and tailored to specific analyses), data analytic programs and results produced under auspices of this project shall be property of the Government. All information and materials including data developed under this contract are the property of the Government and shall be delivered as part of the turnover at the end of the Contract. No information developed under this contract shall be released by the Contractor without the written permission of the Government. 3. Final report shall include list of accomplishments, documentation, & customized code developed for HHS. Should the Contractor be terminated prior to the end of the scheduled base period, the Contractor shall transfer all project materials to the COR within two weeks of the COR's request.

Page 10 of 52

PHASE ONE ASPE Technical Environment Improvements ˇ While ASPE has a significant preference for an open-source Web Content Management System (WCMS), we remain open to recommendations that align with goals of this project, including but not limited to: ˇ Seamless integration with any features, functionality, and platforms ˇ Workflow-based role functionality ˇ Changing government needs

Platform and infrastructure solution ­ CLIN 1 The Contractor shall: 1. Establish, host, and maintain a secure working platform solution supporting the requirements. 2. Establish, host, and maintain a secure software developer environment supporting developer activities and transition areas through the development lifecycle. 3. Ensure solutions are easily migrated to another hosting facility or cloud provider at conclusion of the base year of the contract or at the COR's written request, and 4. Provide operations and maintenance. Web content management solution (WCMS) ­ CLIN 1 The Contractor (and/or their solution) shall: 1. Host, install, and customize a secure web content management system (WCMS). 2. Enable ASPE to develop, maintain, review, edit, approve, & publish content through a role-based workflow system that restricts access by content, role, or site ownership, for example. 3. Allow for integrating other platforms supporting social media functionality, including, but not limited to, a blogging platform, and twitter platform, and other platforms and tools. 4. Enable several websites to independently function in CMS and individual website configuration management to turn on or off functionality without impact to other websites in the system. 5. Enable easy, automated methods for updating both global and non-global components at the component, individual website, and system levels, including but not limited to, templates, content items, keywords and metadata. 6. Enable quick, efficient bulk uploading and management of web artifacts of various formats, such as, but not limited to pdfs, images, podcasts, video, datasets, etc. 7. Support dynamic functionality, including, but not limited to, syndication, content and data sharing, interactive tools, maps and visualizations, APIs, content sharing widgets, distribution list functionality, blogging, and surveys that are delivered through various device types. The web content management solution shall support requirements in this statement of work. 8. Have scalability to accommodate increased number of websites and users, easy to maintain, meet or exceed performance and speed metrics, easily and quickly deployable. 9. Implement PIV Card sign-on requirements as applicable for the content management system, intranet, developer environment, REMIS and Evaluation administrator module. Public-facing Internet Website and Associated Database ­ CLIN 1 Redesign The Contractor shall:
Page 11 of 52

1. Utilize redesign methods including brainstorming, wire framing, mockups, and storyboards. 2. Leverage existing content, inbound links, redirects, and meaningful URLs. Effectiveness The contractor shall: 1. With each release, enhancement, or update, the contractor shall determine website effectiveness in terms of audience awareness, content findability and availability; popularity, accessibility, usability; task fulfillment; viewing experience on specific devices, and overall reputation. 2. Provide usability engineering, an evidence-based methodology that involves end users in design and testing process to produce information systems that are measurably easier to learn, remember, & use. 3. Ensure key activities include, but are not limited to: a. User and Task Analysis b. Information Architecture and Content Organization Assessment of ASPE.hhs.gov, including Evaluation The Contractor shall: 1. Conduct interviews with the internal ASPE.hhs.gov workgroup to understand the vision, mission, and measurable goals for the web site. 2. Conduct a baseline usability test (consisting of 5-7 user performance tests) of ASPE.hhs.gov to identify user performance and satisfaction metrics. 3. Make recommendations for changes to the site (immediate and longer term). 4. Assist with immediate changes needed on the site. 5. Provide the following deliverables: a. Written usability testing plan b. Conduct Usability testing and Related Assessments of ASPE's website c. Conduct User and Task Analysis Hosting, Support, Operations and Maintenance, and Emergency Help ­ CLIN 2 The Contractor shall (for both public-facing website & intranet) provide the following deliverables: 1. Options for Hosting, Support, Maintenance, and Emergency Help with corresponding Service Level Agreements (SLAs) 2. Hosting, support, maintenance and Emergency help to ensure the platform, infrastructure, applications, and databases are available without interruption 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Marketing and Content Dissemination Plan with Social Media and Interactive Tools ­ CLIN 3 The contractor shall (for both the public-facing website and intranet): 1. Lead the workgroup in the ongoing development and implementation of a marketing plan to: a. Identify/engage target audiences and increase visitor numbers to ASPE websites. b. Implement functionality of a suite of social media and other effective, interactive marketing tools into CMS and all components, including but not limited to: i. Appropriate social networks, video, podcasting, and visualizations c. Consistently engage target audience by sharing content i. i.e. Email lists, blogs, newsletters, publications, & social media outlets 2. Provide the following deliverables: a. Marketing and Content Dissemination Plan (Always evolving) b. Page creation/management on popular social media sites for professionals c. Creation of other artifacts identified in the Marketing and Content Dissemination Plan

Page 12 of 52

Evaluation Database Application ­ Evaluate, Rebuild, Redesign, and Refresh ­ CLIN 1 The Contractor shall: 1. Evaluate the current database application and improvement needs and: 2. Rebuild and redesign the database application 3. Provide the following deliverables: a. Modern database application, functioning within the new WCMS PHASE TWO ASPE'S INTRANET WEBSITE ­ CLIN 4 Redesign The Contractor shall: 3. Utilize redesign methods including brainstorming, wire framing, mockups, and storyboards. 4. Leverage existing content, inbound links, redirects, and meaningful URLs. Effectiveness The contractor shall: 4. With each release, enhancement, or update, the contractor shall determine website effectiveness in terms of audience awareness, content findability and availability; popularity, accessibility, usability; task fulfillment; viewing experience on specific devices, and overall reputation. 5. Provide usability engineering, an evidence-based methodology that involves end users in design and testing process to produce information systems that are measurably easier to learn, remember, & use. 6. Ensure key activities include, but are not limited to: a. User and Task Analysis b. Information Architecture and Content Organization Assessment of ASPE.hhs.gov, including Evaluation The Contractor shall: 6. Conduct interviews with the internal ASPE.hhs.gov workgroup to understand the vision, mission, and measurable goals for the web site. 7. Conduct a baseline usability test (consisting of 5-7 user performance tests) of ASPE.hhs.gov to identify user performance and satisfaction metrics. 8. Make recommendations for changes to the site (immediate and longer term). 9. Assist with immediate changes needed on the site. 10. Provide the following deliverables: a. Written usability testing plan b. Conduct Usability testing and Related Assessments of ASPE's website c. Conduct User and Task Analysis PHASE THREE REMIS DATABASE APPLICATION ­ CLIN 5 The Contractor shall: 1. Evaluate the current database application and improvement needs and: 2. Rebuild and redesign the database application 3. Provide the following deliverables:
Page 13 of 52

a. Modern database application, functioning within the new WCMS PHASE FOUR WCMS ONGOING MAINTENANCE, ENHANCEMENTS, AND UPGRADES ­ CLIN's 6, 7, & 8 The Contractor shall: 1. Provide day-to-day maintenance, enhancements, and upgrades, as needed for the following: a. Overall Web Content Management Systems (WCMS) b. Public-facing Internet (Extranet) c. Intranet d. Evaluation Database e. REMIS Database 2.2 HHS SECTION 508 ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS NOTICE (SEPTEMBER 2009) This contract is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (the Act) of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) Electronic and Information Accessibility Provisions (36 CFR Part 1194). Section 508 of the Act requires that, unless an exception applies, all communications products and services that require a contractor or consultant to produce content in any format that is specifically intended for publication on, or delivery via, a federally owned or federally funded website permit the following: (1) Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities. (2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from a federal agency to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities. (Note: Information about Section 508 of the Act is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of Section 508 can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/communications-and-it/about-the-section-508-standa rds/section-508-standards.) Accordingly, regardless of format, all web content or communications materials specifically produced for publication on, or delivery via, HHS websites, including text, audio, or video, under this contract shall conform to applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable accessibility standards of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth herein shall be the responsibility of the Contractor. The following Section 508 accessibility standards apply to the content or communications material identified in this SOW or PWS: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ U.S. Access Board Final Rule Guidance and Standards General and Technical Standards) (§1194.1 ­ 5, Subpart A, Subpart B) Software Applications and Operating Systems (§1194.21) Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications (§194.22) Telecommunications Products (§194.23) Video or Multimedia Products (§194.24) Self-Contained, Closed Products (§1194.25) Desktop and Portable Computers (§1194.26) Functional Performance Criteria (1194.31, Subpart C)
Page 14 of 52

ˇ

Information, Documentation, and Support (1194.41, Subpart D)

2.3 HHS-CONTROLLED FACILITIES AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY (a) To perform the work specified herein, Contractor personnel are expected to have routine (1) physical access to an HHS-controlled facility; (2) logical access to an HHS-controlled information system; (3) access to sensitive HHS data or information, whether in an HHS-controlled information system or in hard copy; or (4) any combination of circumstances (1) through (3). (b) To gain routine physical access to an HHS facility, logical access to an HHS-controlled information system, and/or access to sensitive data or information, the Contractor and its employees shall comply with Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12, Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors; Office of Management and Budget memorandum (M-05-24); and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201; and with the personal identity verification and investigation procedures contained in the following documents: (1) HHS Information Security Program Policy http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/policy/policydocs/ociosummaries.html http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/securityprivacy/index.html (2) HHS Office of Security and Drug Testing, Personnel Security/Suitability Handbook, dated February 1, 2005. http://www.hhs.gov/ohr/manual/pssh.pdf (3) HHS HSPD-12 Policy Document, v. 2.0. http://www.hhs.gov/asfr/og/acquisition/policies/hspd12contractguide.doc (c) This contract/order will entail the following position Sensitivity level(s): Level 1, low risk, non-sensitive. (d) The personnel investigation procedures for Contractor personnel require that the Contractor prepare and submit background check/investigation forms based on the type of investigation required. The minimum Government investigation for a non-sensitive position is a National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) with fingerprinting. More restricted positions--i.e., those above non-sensitive, require more extensive documentation and investigation. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in advance when any new personnel, who are subject to a background check/investigation, will work under the contract and if they have previously been the subject of national agency checks or background investigations. (e) Investigations are expensive and may delay performance, regardless of the outcome of the investigation. Delays associated with rejections and consequent re-investigations may not be excusable in accordance with the FAR clause, Excusable Delays--see FAR 52.249-14. Accordingly, the Contractor shall ensure that any additional employees whose names it submits for work under this contract have a reasonable chance for approval. (f) Typically, the Government investigates personnel at no cost to the Contractor. However, multiple investigations for the same position may, at the Contracting Officer's discretion, justify reduction(s) in the contract price of no more than the cost of the additional investigation(s). (g) The Contractor shall include language similar to this ``HHS-Controlled Facilities and Information Systems Security'' language in all subcontracts that require subcontractor personnel to have the same frequency and duration of (1) physical access to an HHS-controlled facility; (2) logical access to an
Page 15 of 52

HHS-controlled information system; (3) access to sensitive HHS data/information, whether in an HHS-controlled information system or in hard copy; or (4) any combination of circumstances (1) through (3). (h) The Contractor shall direct inquiries, including requests for forms and assistance, to the Contracting Officer or designee. (i) Within 7 calendar days after the Government's final acceptance of the work under this contract, or upon termination of the contract, the Contractor shall return all identification badges to the Contracting Officer or designee.'' 2.4 NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT Commitment to Protect Non-Public Departmental Information Systems and Data (1) Contractor Agreement (a) The Contractor and its subcontractors performing under this SOW shall not release, publish, or disclose non-public Departmental information to unauthorized personnel, and shall protect such information in accordance with provisions of the following laws and any other pertinent laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of such information: -18 U.S.C. 641 (Criminal Code: Public Money, Property or Records) -18 U.S.C. 1905 (Criminal Code: Disclosure of Confidential Information) -Public Law 96-511 (Paperwork Reduction Act) (b) Departmental information that is considered sensitive and necessary to protect is as follows: ˇ REMIS (Financial Management Information) ˇ Intranet o Proprietary Contract Information, and o Bio Information, including but not limited to:  Contact Information (2) Contractor-Employee Non-Disclosure Agreements Each contractor/subcontractor employee who may have access to non-public Department information under this contract shall complete the Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information - Contractor Agreement. A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the COR prior to performing any work under the contract. The document is located in Appendix K of the Information Security Program Contractor Oversight Guide document (reference section J, ID 22). SECTION 3 ­ PACKAGING AND MARKING 3.1 PACKAGING AND MARKING All information and deliverables shall be delivered to the address shown in Section 5.4 entitled - Place of Delivery - and shall be marked as follows: 1. Name and address of the Contractor;
Page 16 of 52

2. 3. 4.

Contract Number; Description of item contained therein; and Consignee's name and address.

SECTION 4 ­ INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE 4.1 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE (COMMERCIAL) Pursuant to 52.212-4, all work described in the SOW/PWS/SOO to be delivered under this contract is subject to final inspection and acceptance by an authorized representative of the Government. The authorized representative of the Government is the Government's COR, who is responsible for inspection and acceptance of all services, materials, or supplies to be provided by the Contractor. SECTION 5 ­ DELIVERIES AND PERFORMANCE 5.1 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE The period of performance shall be for a base period of 24 months with option periods, as follows: Phase One ˇ Everything, except Marketing & Hosting ­ (Non-Severable) o CLIN 1 ­ September 29, 2014 ­ September 28, 2016 ˇ Hosting ­ (Severable with Base plus Four (4) one-year Options) o CLIN 2.0 ­ September 29, 2014 ­ September 28, 2015 o CLIN 2.1 ­ September 29, 2015 ­ September 28, 2016 (Option) o CLIN 2.2 ­ September 29, 2016 ­ September 28, 2017 (Option) o CLIN 2.3 ­ September 29, 2017 ­ September 28, 2018 (Option) o CLIN 2.4 ­ September 29, 2018 ­ September 28, 2019 (Option) ˇ Marketing ­ (Severable with Base plus Four (4) one-year Options) o CLIN 3.0 ­ September 29, 2014 ­ September 28, 2015 o CLIN 3.1 ­ September 29, 2015 ­ September 28, 2016 (Option) o CLIN 3.2 ­ September 29, 2016 ­ September 28, 2017 (Option) o CLIN 3.3 ­ September 29, 2017 ­ September 28, 2018 (Option) o CLIN 3.4 ­ September 29, 2018 ­ September 28, 2019 (Option) Phase Two ˇ Intranet ­ (Non-Severable) o CLIN 4 ­ November 15, 2014 ­ November 14, 2016 (Option) Phase Three ˇ REMIS ­ (Non-Severable) o CLIN 5 ­ November 15, 2014 ­ November 14, 2016 (Option) Phase Four ˇ WCMS Maintenance (Three (3) Severable Options)
Page 17 of 52

o CLIN 6 ­ September 29, 2016 ­ September 28, 2017 (Option) o CLIN 7 ­ September 29, 2017 ­ September 28, 2018 (Option) o CLIN 8 ­ September 29, 2018 ­ September 28, 2019 (Option)

52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor at any time; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least five days before the period of performance start date of the option. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed September 28, 2019. 5.2 REPORT(S)/DELIVERABLES AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE (Proposed) ˇ The contractor shall submit all required report(s)/deliverables in accordance with the following schedule: All reports shall reference and cite the contract/order number. ˇ The Contractor is responsible for providing a detailed, agile milestone and deliverable timeline, according to the Scope of Work/Objectives. ˇ All deliverables must be reviewed and approved in writing by the COR. CLIN DELIVERABLES/ACTIVITIES PHASE ONE 1 1 1 1 2 2 Kick-Off Meetings Issue-tracking (web-based) System Implementation Status/Progress Reports/Calls ASPE Public-Facing Website Hosting, Support, Operations, Maintenance, and Emergency Help Marketing and Content Dissemination Plan with Social Media and Interactive Tools Evaluation Database Application System Documentation & Training Transfer & Transition Transition Plan NLT 8th month of contract's Final
Page 18 of 52

DUE DATE

TBD Within 30 Days of Award TBD TBD TBD

1 1 1 1

TBD TBD

Performance Period (COR approval required) 1 Transition Activities Initiated NLT 60 calendar days before contract expiration, or Within 2 weeks of COR's request (whichever is earlier) Completed NLT contract expiration (to COR's satisfaction) NLT 15 business days prior to contract expiration No later than 10 days business days prior to the expiration of the task order

1 1

Final Report Final Meeting & Evaluation of Project

4 4 5 5 6, 7, & 8 6 7 8

PHASE TWO ASPE Intranet Website PHASE THREE REMIS Database Application PHASE FOUR WCMS Maintenance WCMS Maintenance WCMS Maintenance TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD

5.3 DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS Pickup and delivery of items under this contract/order shall be accomplished between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday unless changed by mutual agreement between the COR and the contractor. No deliveries shall be made on Saturdays, Sundays, and days of government closure or Federal legal holidays found at: http://www.opm.gov/operating_status_schedules 5.4 PLACE OF DELIVERY Michelle Leban U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C., Suite # 443F. SECTION 6 ­ CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

Page 19 of 52

6.0

CONTRACTING OFFICER

The Contract Officer for this purchase order is ____________. All communications pertaining to contractual and/or administrative matters under the task order shall be addressed to the contract specialist for this task order. The contract specialist for this task order will be:

To be finalized after award
Contract Specialist, Division of Acquisition Management - B U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Program Support Center, Strategic Acquisition Service Suite 400, Ardennes Building, 12501 Ardennes Avenue, Rockville, MD 20852 (p): 301-443-XXXX

6.1 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) AUTHORITY (a) Performance of work under this contract must be subject to the technical direction of the Contracting Officer's Representative identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term "technical direction" includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily. (b) Technical direction must be within the scope of the specification(s)/work statement. The Contracting Officer's Representative does not have authority to issue technical direction that: (1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the specification(s)/statement of work; (2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled "Changes"; (3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance; (4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract; (5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or (6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees. (c) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The Contracting Officer's Representative shall confirm oral direction in writing within five work days, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (d) The contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the Contracting Officers, Representative. If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the Contracting Officers, Representative, or his/her designee, falls within the limitations in (b), above, the contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day. (e) Failure of the contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope
Page 20 of 52

of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled "Disputes." 6.2 INVOICE SUBMISSION - COMMERCIAL The Contractor shall submit invoices once per month. A complete invoice with all required back-up documentation shall be sent electronically, via email, to: 1. Contract Specialist via DAM mailbox: pscsas.invoices@psc.hhs.gov 2. Contracting Officer's Representative (COR): Michelle Leban, michelle.leban@hhs.gov 3. Financial Management Service (FMS): psc_invoices@psc.hhs.gov * No other non-invoice related documents (i.e. deliverables, reports, balance statements) shall be sent to the DAM and FMS mailboxes. Invoices Only. The subject line of your email invoice submission shall contain the contract number, contract line item number, the order number, if applicable, and the number of invoices. The Contractor shall send one email per contract per month. The email may have multiple invoices for the contract. Invoices must be in the following formats: PDF, TIFF, or Word. No Excel formats will be accepted. The electronic file cannot contain multiple invoices; example, 10 invoices requires 10 separate files (PDF or TIFF or Word). Invoices shall be submitted in accordance with the contract terms, i.e. payment schedule, progress payments, partial payments, deliverables, etc. All calls concerning contract payment shall be directed to the COR. In accordance with FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items, a proper invoice must include the following items: FAR 52.212-4(g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include: (i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items Delivered; total award dollars and remaining contract balance (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct
Page 21 of 52

EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer, System for Award Management, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer, Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. Additionally, the FMS requires the contractor to include its Dun & Bradstreet Number (DUNS) on each invoice. In accordance with OMB Memorandum, M-11-32, Agencies shall make payments to small businesses as soon as practicable, with the goal of making payments within 15 days of receipt of a proper invoice. If a small business contractor is not paid within this (15 day) accelerated period, the contractor will not be given a late-payment interest penalty. Interest penalties, as prescribed by the Prompt Payment Act, remain unchanged by means of this memorandum. All small businesses shall label all invoices as "Small Business." Additionally, in accordance with OMB Memorandum, M-12-16, all prime contractors are encouraged to disburse funds received from the Federal Government to their small business subcontractors in a prompt manner. To assist prime contractors in expediting contractor payments to small business subcontractors, Agencies shall, to the full extent permitted by law, temporarily establish an earlier, accelerated date for making agency payments to all prime contractors. Consistent with OMB Memorandum M-11-32 above, Agencies shall have a goal of paying all prime contractors within 15 days of receiving proper documentation. In an effort to support small business growth, drive economic activity and job creation, the Contractor is encouraged to accelerate payments to their small business subcontractors. In accordance with the requirements of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, all payments under this order will be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT). The Contractor shall provide financial institution information to the Finance Office designated above in accordance with FAR 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - System for Award Management. SECTION 7 ­ SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS 7.1 352.239-73(B) ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY (JANUARY 2010) (a) Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, all electronic and information technology (EIT) products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used under this contract/order must comply with the "Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Provisions" set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as the "Access Board") in 36 CFR Part 1194. Information about Section 508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/communications-and-it/about-the-section-508-standa rds/section-508-standards. (b) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this contract/order are identified in the Statement of
Page 22 of 52

Work/Specification/Performance Work Statement. The Contractor must provide a written Section 508 conformance certification due at the end of each contract/order exceeding $150,000 when the contract/order duration is one year or less. If it is determined by the Government that EIT products and services provided by the Contractor do not conform to the described accessibility standards in the Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance specified in the Contractor's Product Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor at its own expense. (c) In the event of a modification(s) to this contract/order, which adds new EIT products or services or revises the type of, or specifications for, products or services the Contractor is to provide, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, the Contracting Officer may require that the contractor submit a completed HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template to assist the Government in determining that the EIT products or services support Section 508 accessibility standards. Instructions for documenting accessibility via the HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability website (http://www.hhs.gov/od/). Prior to the Contracting Officer exercising an option for a subsequent performance period/additional quantity or adding funding for a subsequent performance period under this contract, as applicable, the Contractor must provide a Section 508 Annual Report to the Contracting Officer and Project Officer. Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer in writing, the Contractor shall provide the cited report in accordance with the following schedule. Instructions for completing the report are available in the Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability website under the heading Vendor Information and Documents. The Contractor's failure to submit a timely and properly completed report may jeopardize the Contracting Officer's exercising an option or adding funding, as applicable. Schedule for Contractor Submission of Section 508 Annual Report (to be completed by the Contracting Officer at time of contract/order award) 7.2 CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION(S) During the life of this contract, Contractor performance will be evaluated on an interim and final basis pursuant to FAR Subpart 42.15. The Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) will be utilized for these reviews. Information on CPARS can be located at http://www.cpars.gov. 7.3 PRINTING AND DUPLICATION/COPYING The terms "printing" and "duplicating/copying" are defined in the Government Printing and Binding Regulations of the Joint Committee on Printing, CFR Title 44. The regulations can be access at http://www.gpo.gov/pdfs/customers/sfas/jcpregs.pdf. Printing: No printing by the Contractor or any subcontractor is authorized under this contract. All printing required hereunder must be performed by the Government Printing Office, in accordance with CFR Title 44; Public Law 102-392, as amended by H.R. 4454; and The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act 2995. The Contractor shall complete Form HHS 26 and submit it along with all camera-ready copies to the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). Duplicating/Copying: If necessary for performance of the contract, the Contractor may duplicate or copy less than 5,000 production units of only one page, or less than 25,000 production units in aggregate of multiple pages for the use of a
Page 23 of 52

department or agency. A production unit is defined as one sheet, size 8.5 x 11 inches, one side only, and one color. The pages may not exceed a maximum image size of 10-3/4 by 14-1/4 inches. This page limit is per requirement and not per contract. All printing, as well as duplicating/copying in excess of the stated limits, shall be obtained by the COR through the Publishing Services, Program Support Center. The cost of any unauthorized printing or duplicating /copying under this contract will be considered an unallowable cost for which the Contractor will not be reimbursed. SECTION 8 ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES 8.1 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.acquisition.gov/far/ 52.204-7 SYSTEM FOR AWARD MANAGEMENT. (JUL 2013) 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS. (MAY 2014), Alternate I (MAY 2014) 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2014) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Public Laws 108-77, 108-78 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _X__ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 4704 and 10 U.S.C. 2402). ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (41 U.S.C. 3509). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009).
Page 24 of 52

_X__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (5) [Reserved] _X__ (6) 52.204-14, Service Contract Reporting Requirements (Jan 2014) (Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Div. C). ___ (7) 52.204-15, Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts (Jan 2014) (Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Div. C). _X__ (8) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Aug 2013) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X__ (9) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (41 U.S.C. 2313). _X__ (10) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Public Law 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ___ (11) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (12) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (13) [Reserved] __X_ (14) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). _X__ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). ___ (15) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X__ (16) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2014) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (17) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9. ___ (18) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)).
Page 25 of 52

_X__ (19) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (20) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (21) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ___ (22) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (23) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (24) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f). _X__ (25) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ___ (26) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ___ (27) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X__ (28) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X__ (29) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jan 2014) (E.O. 13126). _X__ (30) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X__ (31) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X__ (32) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veteran (Jul 2014) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X__ (33) 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (Jul 2014) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X__ (34) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Jul 2014) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X__ (35) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X__ (36) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)

Page 26 of 52

___ (37) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (38) (i) 52.223-13, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Imaging Equipment (Jun 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-13. ___ (39) (i) 52.223-14, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Television (Jun 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-14. ___ (40) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (41) (i) 52.223-16, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Personal Computer Products (Jun 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-16. _X__ (42) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011). ___ (43) 52.225-1, Buy American--Supplies (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83). ___ (44) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43). ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2014) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (May 2014) of 52.225-3. ___ (iv) Alternate III (May 2014) of 52.225-3. _X__ (45) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Nov 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X__ (46) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (47) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2303 Note). ___ (48) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

Page 27 of 52

___ (49) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ____ (50) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 4505), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (51) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 4505, 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X__ (52) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (53) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (54) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 2014) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (55) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (56) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _X__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67.). _X__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 2014) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67). __X_ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (May 2014) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67). _X__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards -- Price Adjustment (May 2014) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (May 2014) (E.O. 13495). ___ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (May 2014) (42 U.S.C. 1792). ___ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
Page 28 of 52

(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (41 U.S.C. 3509). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2014) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (May 2014) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Jul 2014) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (Jul 2014) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-17, Employment Reports on Veterans (Jul 2014) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (viii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.

Page 29 of 52

(ix) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (May 2014), (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). (x) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (xi) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67.) (xii) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67) (xiii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013). (xiv) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). (xv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (May 2014) (42 U.S.C. 1792). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xvi) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause) SECTION 9 ­ DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, ATTACHMENTS Attachment #1 Appendix K - Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information Contractor Agreement SECTION 10 ­ REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS 10.1 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS-COMMERCIAL ITEMS. (AUG 2013) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provisionEconomically disadvantaged women -owned small business (EDWOSB) concern means a small business
Page 30 of 52

concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. Forced or indentured child labor means all work or service(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. Manufactured end product means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. Place of manufacture means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities,
Page 31 of 52

mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern(1) Means a small business concern(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

Page 32 of 52

Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. Women-owned business concern means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. Women-owned small business concern means a small business concern(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b)(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAM website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through http://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ________. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.
Page 33 of 52

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.) (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ___ is, ___ is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ___ is, ___ is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.) The offeror represents that(i) It [] is, [] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [] is, [] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________________________________.) Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.) The offeror represents that(i) It [] is, [] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

Page 34 of 52

(ii) It [] is, [] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________________.) Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ___ is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ____________________. (10) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.) (i) General. The offeror represents that either(A) It ___ is, ___ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ___ has, ___ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: _______________.) (11) HUBZone small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that(i) It ____ is, ____ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the
Page 35 of 52

List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It ____ is, ____ is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that(i) It ___ has, ___ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It ___ has, ___ has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that(i) It ___ has developed and has on file, ___ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ___ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act-Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in
Page 36 of 52

paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. _____________________________________________ Country of Origin:_________________________________________ (List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ____________ _________________ (List as necessary) (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products Line Item No. ______________________________ Country of Origin:__________________________
Page 37 of 52

(List as necessary) (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.____________________________ _________________________________________ _________________________________________ $(List as necessary) (3) Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. _________________ _________________ _________________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________ $(List as necessary) (g)(4) Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ____________ _________________ (List as necessary)
Page 38 of 52

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No.: _________________________________ Country of Origin: _____________________________ (List as necessary) (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (i) The offeror certifies that each end product being offered, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision, is a domestic end product (as defined in the clause entitled "Buy American Act-North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act-Balance of Payments Program," and that components of unknown origin have been considered to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. (ii) Excluded End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ____________ _________________ (List as necessary) (iii) Offers will be evaluated by giving certain preferences to domestic end products or NAFTA country end products over other end products. In order to obtain these preferences in the evaluation of each excluded end product listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision, offerors must identify and certify below those excluded end products that are NAFTA country end products. Products that are not identified and certified below will not be deemed NAFTA country end products. The offeror certifies that the following supplies qualify as NAFTA country end products as that term is defined in the clause entitled "Buy American Act-North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act-Balance of Payments Program": (Insert line item numbers)

Page 39 of 52

(iv) Offers will be evaluated in accordance with part 25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. In addition, if this solicitation is for supplies for use outside the United States, an evaluation factor of 50 percent will be applied to offers of end products that are not domestic or NAFTA country end products. (2) Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at 52.225-21 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(iii) for paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this provision: (g)(1)(iii) Offers will be evaluated by giving certain preferences to domestic end products or Canadian end products over other end products. In order to obtain these preferences in the evaluation of each excluded end product listed in paragraph (b) of this provision, offerors must identify and certify below those excluded end products that are Canadian end products. Products that are not identified and certified below will not be deemed Canadian end products. The offeror certifies that the following supplies qualify as Canadian end products as that term is defined in the clause entitled "Buy American Act-North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act-Balance of Payments Program": (Insert line item numbers) (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals(1) ___ are, ___ are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) ___ have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property, (3) ___ are, ___ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and. (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product: _______________ Listed Countries of Origin: _______________ (2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph
Page 40 of 52

(i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) __ (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. __ (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (4) ___ Have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this
Page 41 of 52

solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product [] [] Listed Countries of Origin [] [] (2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) ___ (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ___ (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly(1) ___ In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ___ Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.) [] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify that-

Page 42 of 52

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify that(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of
Page 43 of 52

the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [] TIN: ___________________. [] TIN has been applied for. [] TIN is not required because: [] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. [] Sole proprietorship; [] Partnership; [] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [] Foreign government; [] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [] Other ___________. (5) Common parent. [] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; [] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________. TIN _____________________.

Page 44 of 52

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) SECTION 11 ­ INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS. (APR 2014) 11.1 Two-Stage Down-Select Instructions

Page 45 of 52

Two-Stage (Source Selection Down-Select) Solicitation Overview: 1. This solicitation will have two stages in order to select the most capable Prime Contractor, based on established evaluation criteria of which will vary by stage. The purpose of the two-stage approach is to streamline the process for offerors and minimize traditional burdens placed on them associated with lengthy paper-based proposal submissions. It's important to distinguish that the two-staged solicitation process is completely separate from the multiple phases included in the Scope of Objectives. 2. Offerors will have Two (2) weeks to submit their proposal for Stage One of the source selection process. All submissions will then be evaluated. 3. Once the evaluation for Stage One is complete, the Contracting Officer will Down-Select up to five (5) firms to participate in Stage Two. Firms involved in Stage Two will receive $10,000. Those firms will then have Three (3) weeks to provide a proof-of-concept, functional prototype (outlined below). All prototype design concepts shall become the property of the Government. 4. All Stage Two contractors will be invited to participate in a two-hour question and answer session about the requirement. 5. The Technical Evaluation Panel will then evaluate the Stage Two submissions based on the established criteria and make a final award for the overall solicitation. 6. The Down-Select process will enable: a. Contractors an opportunity to showcase their abilities and expertise by delivering a short-term, functional prototype in support of their proposed concept rather than a detailed paper-based proposal. This proof-of-concept approach is consistent with private sector methodologies. b. The Technical Evaluation Panel an opportunity to see functional prototypes before an award is made, ensuring that a Contractor has the ability and expertise required. 7. The Down-Select process also: a. Streamlines the initial competition process by minimizing total upfront effort to be considered for an award, which is important to both Contractors and the Government. b. Enables Contractors to focus on their core competencies rather than drafting lengthy responses to a solicitation.

Page 46 of 52

11.2

QUESTIONS/ PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS

QUESTIONS: All questions pertaining to the contents of this Request for Proposal (RFP) must be submitted in writing. The Government shall respond to all questions and return the questions and responses to all vendors as soon as they are completed. Stage Two questions may be addressed in the Two (2) hour Question & Answer session, though we kindly request those questions be submitted in advance in order for proper responses to be given. Questions shall reference the solicitation number and be sent electronically to kristopher.brady@psc.hhs.gov and Clint.druk@psc.hhs.gov in accordance with each of the following stages. 1. Stage One: a. No later than 5 p.m. EST on Tuesday, August 12, 2014 2. Stage Two: a. No later than 5 p.m. EST on Tuesday, August 26, 2014 b. A Two (2) hour Question & Answer session will be conducted from 10 a.m. until 12 p.m. EST on Thursday, August 28, 2014 in Washington, DC at a location to be determined. 11.3 SOLICITATION PROPOSAL SUBMISSION:

Offerors shall submit one electronic copy in PDF format of each their technical and cost/business proposals via email to kristopher.brady@psc.hhs.gov and clint.druk@psc.hhs.gov in accordance with the following two stages: 1. Stage One: a. No later than 5 p.m. EST on Tuesday, August 19, 2014 2. Stage Two: a. No later than 5 p.m. EST on Monday, September 15, 2014 Offerors shall reference the Solicitation number on the cover page of their proposals. No facsimile transmissions of the proposal will be accepted. Your initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct negotiations if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. 11.4 Stage One Instructions

Stage One Instructions: ˇ Submit the following proposal, consisting of the concept paper and cost proposal, demonstrating your ability and expertise to deliver a solution that meets the established needs and purpose of the solicitation. Technical Approach/Concept Paper (Eight (8) pages) o 8.5 x 11 inches max o Times New Roman Font o Font Size 12 o Single-Spaced o 1 inch margins on all sides

Page 47 of 52

ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ

The Concept Paper shall not exceed more than Eight (8) pages.\ While ASPE has a significant preference for an open-source Web Content Management System (WCMS), we remain open to recommendations that align with goals of this project, including but not limited to: o Seamless integration with any features, functionality, and platforms o Workflow-based role functionality o Changing government needs Offerors shall provide a concept paper for evaluation in accordance with the established instructions. The Offeror should demonstrate its: o Overall approach to the project and what, if anything, it would need from the Government to ensure success as well as identifying any barriers that would reduce or delay success. o Technical capability to perform the work, including how coordination with stakeholders will be accomplished. o Understanding of and ability to meet the technical requirements expressed in the solicitation, including but not limited to previous experience examples. o Knowledge of and experience with Agile implementation, including but not limited to the following:  Management of development/sprint cycles,  Techniques for release planning,  Plans for engaging end users,  Methods for capturing and applying lessons learned, testing processes, reasons behind the composition of their Agile teams,  Rationale behind the proposed development talent and project oversight (tied to Product Vision),  How they will make resources available within schedule and budget constraints, and  Approach to configuration management o Proposed concept and timeline for the project. o Portfolio of Recent Work  Contractor should provide up to Five (5) recent, relevant examples (with links) of similar projects and designate whether any of the work was done by another party. This enables the Technical Evaluation Panel to explore some design and functionality of your work.

Price Reasonableness ˇ Pricing for the solicitation associated with your proposed concept. 11.5 Stage Two Instructions

Stage Two Instructions: ˇ Submit the following proposal demonstrating your ability and expertise to complete your proposed concept, based on the established needs and purpose of the solicitation. Technical ­ Functional Prototype and Performance Work Statement (PWS)
Page 48 of 52

Functional prototype, source code, CSS, script, and so forth should be included but not limited to: ˇ Wireframe mockup of Home Page ˇ Wireframe mockup of the Search input and Search results pages highlighting filtering and relationship to taxonomy ˇ Wireframe mockup of an interactive HTML version of the 2014 Market Place Enrollment Report highlighting data in the report: http://aspe.hhs.gov/health/reports/2014/MarketPlaceEnrollment/Apr2014/ib_2014Apr_enrollment .pdf ˇ Wireframe mockup of an interactive HTML version of the Evaluation report highlighting Goals and Objectives http://aspe.hhs.gov/evaluation/perfimp/2014/PerformanceImprovement2014.cfm Performance Work Statement (PWS) ˇ Offerors shall submit a Performance Work Statement (PWS) in response to the Statement of Objectives and this RFP. It should fully detail the project from concept through implementation to complete transition and do so in a manner that would satisfy all stakeholders. ˇ The proposed solution shall include an explanation of how project and contract management, communication/collaboration with the Government, security requirements, documentation, and reporting will function in conjunction with the proposed Agile methodology. ˇ The PWS shall not exceed 20 pages in total length. o 8.5 x 11 inches max o Times New Roman Font o Font Size 12 o Single-Spaced o 1 inch margins on all sides ˇ It should also include the following: o Product Development Roadmap (PDR)  Offerors shall propose an Agile product development roadmap which correlates with how the stated objective aligns with the timeframe for implementation and the offeror's proposed Agile methodology. The product development roadmap shall demonstrate where testing, training, security, and cut over planning, will be included. It should nclude all aspects of a traditional software development life cycle plan but allow for rapid iterative creation of functional models and deployments. o Notional Quality Control Plan (QCP)  Offerors shall describe the QCP and Performance Measurement approach, including how proposed performance standards will be monitored, evaluated, and reported. The purpose of the notional QCP is to provide evaluators with an understanding of how measures and metrics will be applied based on the proposed technical solution. Price Reasonableness ˇ Pricing associated with your proposed concept including fully loaded labor rates, labor categories and estimated materials costs.
Page 49 of 52

SECTION 12 - Evaluation Factors for Award 12.1 GENERAL In order for proposals to be considered acceptable and eligible for evaluation, they must be prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the instructions given in this RFP and address all of the requirements set forth in the Statement of Work/Description of Requirement. Proposals which merely offer to conduct a program in accordance with the requirements of the Government's scope of work will not be eligible for an award. Offerors will be evaluated on the following factors and subfactors: Evaluation Factors Stage One 1. Technical Approach (Eight (8)-Page Concept Paper) a. The Offeror's approach shall demonstrate its ability to perform the requirements as outlined in Section 11.4 (Stage One Instructions), including, but not limited to the following: i. Overall approach to the project, ii. Technical capability to perform the require work, iii. Understanding of and ability to meet the technical requirements, iv. Knowledge of and experience with Agile implementation, v. Proposed concept and project timeline, and vi. Portfolio of recent and similar work 2. Price Reasonableness a. The Offeror shall provide a Price for the entire project, itemized by requirement. Stage Two: 1. Technical ­ The Offeror's approach shall demonstrate its ability to perform the requirements as outlined in Section 11.5 (Stage Two Instructions), including, but not limited to the following: a. Functional Prototype i. The Offeror will be evaluated in accordance with Section 11.5 instructions in order to determine technical merit for the functional prototype. b. Performance Work Statement (PWS) i. The Offeror will be evaluated in accordance with Section 11.5 instructions to determine technical merit for the Performance Work Statement (PWS), which should not exceed 20 typed pages. The Product Development Roadmap (PDR) and Notional Quality Control Plan (QCP) will also be evaluated as sub factors within the PWS. 2. Price Reasonableness a. Pricing for the solicitation associated with your proposed concept. 12.2 TECHNICAL CAPABILITY

Page 50 of 52

EVALUATION CRITERIA/OFFEROR'S TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS The Offeror's technical qualifications shall be used to determine whether the Offeror has the requisite experience and expertise to perform various types of work as outlined in the Statement of Work. The rating definitions provided below will be used for the evaluation of each Technical evaluation factor and subfactor and to assign each proposal with an overall rating. O ­ Significantly exceeds most or all solicitation requirements for this factor or 3. Outstanding subfactor or overall. Response exceeds an "Excellent" rating. The risk of unsuccessful contract performance is extremely low. 4. Excellent E ­ Fully meets all solicitation minimum requirements and exceeds many of the solicitation requirements for this factor or subfactor or overall; OR exceeds a small number of the minimum requirements but to a significant degree or in a valuable way for this factor or subfactor or overall. Response exceeds an "Acceptable" rating. The risk of unsuccessful contract performance is very low. 5. Acceptable A ­ Fully meets all solicitation minimum requirements for this factor or subfactor or overall. Areas where the proposal exceeds the minimum solicitation requirements, if any, are of little or no value to the Government. The risk of unsuccessful contract performance is low. 6. Marginal M ­ Less than "Acceptable." Does not meet all solicitation minimum requirements for this factor or subfactor or overall. The proposal indicates a superficial or vague understanding of the program goals and the methods, resources, schedules and/or other aspects essential to contract performance. The risk of unsuccessful contract performance is moderate. 7. Unacceptable U ­ Technical proposal has many or significant deficiencies and/or substantial omissions for a factor or subfactor or overall AND/OR the proposal demonstrates a lack of understanding of the program goals, methods, resources, schedules and/or other aspects essential to contract performance. The risk of unsuccessful contract performance is high. 12.3 BUSINESS/PRICE QUOTE

This factor will be evaluated based on the following criteria: The Government will evaluate Offeror's price for all items quoted. Option years will be included as part of the total evaluated price. The proposed price will not be rated adjectivally but the reasonableness of the proposed price will be considered in the best value source selection decision. Proposed prices should include total proposed amounts for the base year and all option years. The Offeror's total evaluated price shall be the total proposed prices as described above, plus other applicable cost factors. The total price proposed to the Government may be adjusted by the Government to include other cost factors applicable to the acceptance of each Offeror's proposed solution (such as security clearance procedures). Offerors will be evaluated based upon price reasonableness and price completeness/accuracy to determine the validity of the price.

Page 51 of 52

12.4

SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE

No adjectival rating will be given to this criterion. Section 508 Compliance is evaluated as acceptable or unacceptable. Attachment C ­ HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template will be evaluated to determine whether the Offeror is capable of meeting the section 508 compliance requirements. The Offeror must demonstrate their compliance with the applicable Section 508 standards. This includes submitting the completed HHS Section 508 Evaluation Template (Attachment `A'); Information about Section 508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at: http://www.accessboard.gov/sec508/standards.htm. 12.5 BASIS FOR AWARD

Award will be made to that responsible Offeror whose proposal contains the combination of those factors offering the best overall value to the Government utilizing a tradeoff process. This will be determined by comparing differences in technical capability with differences in cost to the Government. In making this comparison the Government is more concerned with obtaining superior technical merit. However, the Government will not make an award at a significantly higher cost to the Government to achieve slightly superior technical merit. The Government reserves the right to make an award to other than the lowest priced offeror or to the offeror with a higher technical score if the Contracting Officer determines that to do so would result in the best value to the Government. 12.6 52.212-2 EVALUATION - COMMERCIAL ITEMS. (JAN 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: The significant evaluation factors consist of the following in descending order of importance: Technical Capability Price Reasonableness/Cost Section 508 Compliance Technical factors, when combined, will receive paramount consideration in the selection of the Contractor for this acquisition over total cost. The Government will make an award to the proposal offering the best value, as defined in FAR 2.1, to the Government, cost and other factors considered and reserves the right to make an award without negotiations. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.
Page 52 of 52

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F14-233-SOL-00490.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F14-233-SOL-00490.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>Appendix K: Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information Contractor Agreement
Access to sensitive information from the files of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is required in the performance of my official duties, under contract number _____________ between (HHS I/C Name or Component) _____________________________ and my employer (Employer's Name) _______________________________. I agree that I shall not release, publish, or disclose such information to unauthorized personnel, and I shall protect such information in accordance with relevant laws and regulations available for research and review at any Law Library. Among these laws may be various provisions of: a) 18 U.S.C. 641 (Criminal Code: Public Money, Property or Records; 2pgs.long) b) 18 U.S.C. 1905 (Criminal Code: Disclosure of Confidential Information; 2 pgs. long) c) Public Law 96-511 (Paperwork Reduction Act; Encyclopedic in length) I affirm that I have received a written and/or verbal briefing by my company concerning my responsibilities under this agreement. I understand that violation of this agreement may subject me to criminal and civil penalties.

Signed: ________________________________________ Type or Print Name: ______________________________ Date: __________________________________________ Witnessed by: ___________________________________ Date: __________________________________________

Copies are to be retained by: HHS COR Contractor's Contract Management Individual Signatory

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

ATTACHMENT #1
1. ASPE Public Website
Url: http://aspe.hhs.gov

Framework and Database
Url: http://aspe.hhs.gov Database System: MS-Access Database Name: Reports Database size: 13 MB as of Jul 8, 2014 Tables: 13 Framework: ColdFusion

Page type, count, database tables and records in ASPE public and Intranet
Website Shtml Htm Html Cfc Cfm pdf css Database Type/Name DB Size # of Tables Records # in Main table and table name * 1,387 (report) 10,336 (tblmain)

ASPE (public) Evaluation

1,685 5

10,074 259

2,526 119

94 9

1,340 280

12,375 698

832 94

MS Access / reports MySQL / PIC

13 MB 28.7 MB

13 29

Intranet REMIS BIO

196 0 1

2,640 202 34

1,191 201 34

0 8 41

1,320 109 130

960 0 2

290 50 56

MySQL /remis MySQL /aspe_staff

5.5 MB 0.6 MB

24 7

2,063 (p_project) 251(staff)

* report is the main table in the ASPE public website database (reports) * tblmain is the main table in the Evaluation database (pic) * p_project is the main table in the REMIS database (remis) * staff is the main table in the BIO database (aspe_staff)

1|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Database Schema Reports

2|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Site structure (Double click object to zoom in) ASPE.hhs.gov

3|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

User Interfaces ASPE public website

4|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

HHS Evaluation Database Application
The HHS Evaluation Database contains summary information on evaluations funded by the Department of Health and Human Services. The database enables the Department to produce the mandatory annual Performance Improvement Reports for Congress. The database includes new, ongoing and completed studies entered into the database in an ongoing, "real time" basis" making this a valuable current publicly available resource.

Framework and Database
Url: http://aspe.hhs.gov/evaluation Database name: PIC Database size: 28.7 MB as of Jul 8, 2014 Tables: 29 Framework: ColdFusion, about 178 pages has programming code implemented. * Database conversion maybe required.

5|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Database Schema Evaluation/PIC Database (Double click object to zoom in)

6|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Site structure Evaluation / PIC Database

Evaluation/ PIC
1. Main landing to public: /performance/index.cfm.
7|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application a. Admin role: Search, edit, delete all records. Create and delete (admin, monitor, editor) roles to users. b. Monitor role: Search all records and edit only records are created by the role's user agency name. Create and delete editor role users under their agency name. c. Editor role: Search all records and edit only records by the role user name as the project officer.

2. Search Edit by Record ID: evaluation/login/dataentry/search_edit.cfm.

8|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application 3. Search Edit Result: evaluation/login/dataentry/search_id.cfm. 4. Reports in categorized criteria: evaluation/login/reports/index.cfm. 5. Update Reports in List: evaluation/login/reports/updateInList.cfm. 6. MS Word document report.

9|P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application 7. Update Agency: /login/missions/searchmission.cfm. 8. Main menu for admin users: /login/admin/index.cfm.

9. Users Lists: evaluation/login/admin/user_list.cfm. 10. Edit User: /login/admin/user_edit.cfm. 11. Admin Functions. 12. Delete Report.

10 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

2. ASPE Intranet
Url: http:// aspetst2.hhs.gov/aspeintranet

Framework and Database
Url: http://aspetst2.hhs.gov/aspeintranet Framework: ColdFusion * ASPE Intranet site holds about 5,300 web pages and ASPE Deadlines , Staff Directory(Bio) and REMIS application are running on ASPE Intranet site based on MS SQL Express and MySQL database system, it highly recommend to be consolidated to a single database system. *ASP.NET Framework-ASPE Deadlines (MS SQL Express) The database schema and site structure are excluded in the document due to the level of size to the site is small. *ColdFusion Framework-StaffDirectory (Bio), REMIS

Site Structure

11 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

ASPE Intranet

12 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS)
The Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) is a database application developed as an internal management tracking and reporting mechanism for planning and evaluation work performed by ASPE, including management of project funding. REMIS enables project managers to track and record details of the project procurement process. This includes entering new projects, updating project information, approving project, and allocating funding details and funding approvals spanning multi-year projects. REMIS enables ASPE project officers to instantly access information about funding for multi-year projects, and track changes to projects quickly and comprehensively.

Framework and Database
Url: http://aspetst2.hhs.gov/aspeintranet/remis Database name: remis Database size: 5.5 MB as of Jul 8, 2014 Tables: 24 Framework: ColdFusion, about 101 pages has programming code implemented. *Database conversion maybe required.

13 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Database Schema REMIS / (Double click to zoom in)

14 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Site Structure REMIS

15 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

User Interfaces REMIS

16 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

Staff Directory, Bios, and Photos
The Bio (Staff) contains summary information on employees to provide highlight the staff's qualifications and their abilities and expertise in ASPE.

Framework and Database
Url: http://aspetst2.hhs.gov/aspeintranet/biosPhotos/ Database name: aspe_staff Database size: 0.6 MB as of Jul 8, 2014 Tables: 10 Framework: ColdFusion

Database Schema for BIO aspe_staff (Double click object to zoom in)

17 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

User Interfaces Bio/ aspe_staff

18 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

3. Current Environment for ASPE public website, Evaluation database application, Intranet website, REMIS database application

19 | P a g e

ASPE's Public website and Intranet website, HHS Evaluation Database application, and Research and Evaluation Management Information System (REMIS) database application

4. Sample Specifications and Database Access Flow (Double click object to zoom in)

20 | P a g e

