


                                                                      [pic]


                                                       Social Security Administration (SSA)
                                                                  SSA-RFP-10-1020




                                                             Section A- Pricing Table
                                                                Table of Contents
Purpose and Scope      3
General Instructions   3

Section A: Instructions for Pricing Table

1. Purpose and Scope


      The purpose of this contract is to convert to electronic media the information exchange that now occurs between SSA and Financial
      Institutions (FIs); to obtain the necessary information for SSA to verify the account balances and interest income revealed by the
      applicant, recipient, or deemor; and to automate the process whereby FIs are reimbursed for the cost of account verifications.


      The Government anticipates the award of a Firm Fixed Price contract with Labor Hour Optional Line Items. The period of performance shall be
      five years. The Government will purchase fixed price line items to accomplish the work detailed in the Statement of Work, and may issue
      fixed price task orders for optional services over the term of the contract.


 2. General Instructions

      The offeror is required to complete the pricing table. Each Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) corresponds with a reference section in the
      Statement of Work (See Section B âDescription/Specification/ Statement of Workâ). For each CLIN, indicate the Unit Price and the extended
      Cost, which is the Quantity multiplied by the Unit Price.


      The data presented in the pricing table will be used for the evaluation of offers. The pricing table will also be used for contract
      administration after a contract is awarded. The Government will not pay prices other than those listed in the pricing table. In certain
      cases, offerors are required to provide their own unique labor category descriptions and/or other expense categories necessary to
      accomplish SOW requirements.


      An electronic version of the pricing table is included as an attachment to the solicitation. Offerors may use their own version of these
      tables, either manually or computer generated, provided all required data and pricing is included.  Offeror pricing tables must be
      sufficiently detailed so as to permit determination of the price and to facilitate contract administration.


      No Charge Items - All solicited items must be in the pricing table(s). If there is no price associated with an item, N/C (no charge) shall
      be inserted in the unit price column.


      Price Evaluation - The Government will use the data presented in the Pricing Table to compute the Evaluated Cost for each offeror.


      Unbalanced Offers - The Government may exclude an offer as not acceptable if it is materially unbalanced as to unit prices offered for the
      base year compared to the following years. An offer is unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly understated for some items and
      significantly overstated for other items, or reflects substantial differences in unit prices from year-to-year.


AFI Pricing Table 
CLIN REFERENCE 
SECTION DESCRIPTION DUE DATE UNIT PRICE  QTY UNIT PRICE EXTENDED COST
1000.0 B.4(a)(i) System Development 90 Days Post Award EACH 1.0
2000.0 B.4(a)(i) Implementation
2001.0 Group 1  (17 STATES & 
15 OQP SITES) 90 Days Post Award PER GROUP 1.0
2002.0 Group 2 (9 STATES) 180 Days Post Award PER GROUP 1.0
2003.0 Group 3 (10 STATES) 270 Days Post Award PER GROUP 1.0
2004.0 Group 4 (16 STATES) 360 Days Post Award PER GROUP 1.0
3000.0 B.4(e) Training
3001.0 IVT Recorded Sessions As Needed PER SESSION 2.0
3002.0 Broadcast Training Sessions As Needed PER SESSION 4.0
3003.0 SSA On-Site training As Needed PER SESSION 22.0
4000.0 B.5 Project Management
4001.0 Contract Year 1 On Going  PER MONTH 12.0
4002.0 Contract Year 2 On Going  PER MONTH 12.0
4003.0 Contract Year 3 On Going  PER MONTH 12.0
4004.0 Contract Year 4 On Going  PER MONTH 12.0
4005.0 Contract Year 5 On Going  PER MONTH 12.0
Total Project Management
5000.0 B.6(a) Managed Services
5001.0 Contract Year 1 On Going PER  MONTH 12.0
5002.0 Contract Year 2 On Going PER  MONTH 12.0
5003.0 Contract Year 3 On Going PER  MONTH 12.0
5004.0 Contract Year 4 On Going PER  MONTH 12.0
5005.0 Contract Year 5 On Going PER  MONTH 12.0
Total Managed Services
6000.0 B.6(b) Customer Service 
 (Including Help Desk)
6001.0 Contract Year 1 3 Months Post Award PER MONTH 9.0
6002.0 Contract Year 2 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
6003.0 Contract Year 3 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
6004.0 Contract Year 4 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
6005.0 Contract Year 5 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
Total Customer Service
7000.0 B.6(c) Management Information
 Requirements (Reports)
7001.0 Contract Year 1 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
7002.0 Contract Year 2 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
7003.0 Contract Year 3 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
7004.0 Contract Year 4 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
7005.0 Contract Year 5 On Going PER MONTH 12.0
Total Management Information
8000.0 B.6(d) Operational Documentation 3 Months Post Award LOT 1.0
9000.0 B.7 Additional Services
9001.0 Programming As Needed PER HOUR N/A N/A
9002.0 Integration As Needed PER HOUR N/A N/A
10000.0 Other



                                                                      [pic]


                                                       Social Security Administration (SSA)
                                                                  SSA-RFP-10-1020




                                              Section B Description/Specification/Statement of Work
                                                                Table of Contents

Introduction     9


Scope of Work    11


AFI Program Requirements     12


Implementation Requirements  23


Project Management     30


Operations, Management, and Reporting  Requirements      32


Optional Services      48


Section B: Description/Specification/Statement of Work

1. Introduction

   1. Purpose

   The Social Security Administration (SSA) administers the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program which was created by Congress to provide
   income assistance for the aged, blind, or disabled whose income and resources are below specified levels.  Countable resources, including
   those from financial accounts, must be under $2,000 for an individual and $3,000 for a couple.  Currently, there are over 7.5 million SSI
   beneficiaries on the rolls, and approximately 2 million individuals apply for SSI each year.  In addition, each year SSA conducts
   approximately 2.5 million periodic redeterminations of SSI eligibility.  During both initial SSI claims determinations and SSI
   redeterminations, SSA must obtain verification of financial institution (FI) account balances to determine that resources remain under the
   specified level(s). Examples of information obtained are titling, balance, and related information on all types of accounts and certificates
   held by an SSI applicant, recipient, or deemor.


   The purpose of this contract is to convert to electronic media the information exchange that now occurs between SSA and Financial Institutions
   (FIs); to obtain the necessary information for SSA to verify the account balances and interest income revealed by the applicant, recipient, or
   deemor; and to automate the process whereby FIs are reimbursed for the cost of account verifications.


   2. Authority


   The Foster Care Independence Act of 1999 permits SSA to require SSI claimants and beneficiaries to provide permanent authorization for access
   to FIs until cessation of SSI eligibility, in order to obtain verification of their financial assets.  In most states, SSA’s current process
   for obtaining asset verification is paper-based, and requires a "wet" signature as authorization.  In these states, the form SSA-4641-U2,
   “Authorization for the Social Security Administration to Obtain Account Records from a Financial Institution and Request for Records,” is
   mailed or faxed to the FI and requests account balance information over specified time periods.


   3. Background

   In September 2003, SSA awarded a contract to design, develop, implement and maintain a proof-of-concept (POC) system that could test an
   automated process for the delivery of, and response to, Form SSA–4641-U2. The POC system used a secure Internet-based system known as “e4641”
   to enable SSA field office (FO) personnel to complete automated verification requests using a “Web Form” which emulates the form and format of
   the paper SSA-4641-U2.  Regardless of whether the SSA-4641-U2 requests are sent to the FIs via Internet, fax or mail, the creation of the
   verification requests and the receipt of the FI responses are automated, identical and transparent to the FOs.  Utilizing the secure Internet
   application, FIs receive verification requests immediately and the FI responses via the Internet are in turn received immediately by the FOs.
   For FIs receiving and sending the verification requests via fax or mail, the contractor acts as intermediary to convert fax and mail to
   automated, secure Internet transmissions to the FOs.


   The first phase of the POC took place from February through September 2004 and included 20 FOs and all available FIs in the New York/New
   Jersey geographic area.  This phase of the POC demonstrated that the system design and its operation would substantially improve the SSA-4641-
   U2 process.  Subsequently, SSA expanded the automated asset verification process, including the use of Accuity’s Geographic Undisclosed
   Account Radial Detection (GUARD) function to detect undisclosed financial accounts, to all 110 FOs in the states of New York and New Jersey
   and to a limited number of users in fifteen (15) Office of Quality Performance (OQP) field sites.  From February through November 2005, OQP
   conducted an extensive evaluation of the Proof of Concept process in the New York and New Jersey FOs.


   Since November 2005, SSA has contracted to continue operations in New York and New Jersey FOs and selected OQP regional field sites.  In
   November 2007, the program was expanded to FOs in the state of California.  Together, these three states include 248 of the roughly 1,300 FOs
   nationally, and contain about 20 percent of all SSI claimants, beneficiaries and deemors.  As of September 2009, approximately 93% of FIs in
   the state of New York were participating in the AFI program.  In the states of New Jersey and California, the current rate of FI participation
   was about 94% and 83%, respectively.


   The AFI project currently includes the following functions:


      • Converts the informational exchanges (e.g., form SSA-4641-U2) that now occur in paper form between FIs and SSA to electronic media.


      • Obtains titling, balance and related information on all types of depository accounts and certificates[1]  held by the SSI applicant,
        recipient or deemor in addition to verifying the account balance and interest income alleged by the applicant, recipient or deemor.


      • Detects unreported accounts in FIs located in proximity to the residence address of the SSI applicant, recipient or deemor.


      • Implements a semi-automated process whereby FIs are reimbursed for the cost of account verification.



2. Scope of Work

   1. Overview


   The Contractor shall implement a national system for SSA that will provide access to FI data on the assets of SSI applicants and beneficiaries
   for purposes of SSA’s determinations of SSI eligibility. The Contractor shall act as SSA’s agent and provide management services in the
   transition of FI access and form SSA-4641-U2 requests to currently supported states, implementation of new FIs for service in new states, and
   ongoing management and support of the complete system and processes for the electronic form SSA-4641-U2 Access to Financial Institution (AFI)
   project for SSA. When fully implemented nationally, the system shall process requests for over 2 million SSI claims and 2.5 million post
   entitlement actions per year.


   The Contractor shall support SSA in the integration and continued management of the processes for the transmittal of data between SSA and the
   Contractor’s system and services.


   2. Scope Descriptions


   The scope of this contract shall include the following:


    • Development of an AFI system with the capability of being fully operational in all 50 states, 15 OQP Sites, the District of Columbia, and
      the Northern Mariana Islands.


    • Recruitment of FIs in the minimum seventeen (17)  target states to be implemented with AFI in the first contract year and in the remaining
      states plus the District of Columbia, the Northern Marianas Islands, and the 5 largest non-U.S. FIs headquartered or with branches in
      Puerto Rico in accordance with the implementation schedule.


    • Ongoing maintenance, support, and refinement of the AFI system.


    • Assistance with integration of the AFI system with SSA’s Web Service Interface.


    • Training SSA staff and Financial Institutions on the AFI system


    • Development of routine management information (MI) reports and ad hoc requests.


    • Development of systems documentation and operations manual and periodic documentation and operations manual updates for the AFI system.


3. AFI Program Requirements


   The Contractor shall develop a comprehensive AFI system, herein referred to as the “system,” “AFI system,” or “Access to Financial Institution
   system,” with the capability to support SSA's AFI program  in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Northern Mariana Islands.  The
   system must include the following:

   1. e4641 Form Replication Process


   Contractor shall develop a system capable of processing an electronic Form 4641 ("e4641") application which reproduces the paper Form SSA-4641-
   U2 electronically and allows for the electronic entry of information and submission and generation of requests for bank account information to
   participating FIs.


   The functionality must also include the flexibility to make modifications to the electronic form SSA-4641-U2, which may be requested by SSA or
   required by regulatory or policy changes.  The AFI system should also include the functionality for generating a printed SSA-4641-U2 with
   current FI contact and customer information to allow SSA personnel to make separate requests with non-participating FIs.


   2. Communication with FIs


   The AFI system shall communicate with FIs regarding account information requests and responses, and communicate with SSA on the status of
   requests and any needed clarification regarding FI responses.  The system shall be capable of interacting with the diverse architectures of
   the different FIs recruited into the system. The AFI system shall be automated and allow the flow of the requests through the AFI system to
   the FIs and back again to SSA.  The AFI system shall receive requests electronically, via the internet interface or the SSA Web Services
   Interface and submit those requests to the appropriate FI through secure electronic transmission, fax, or paper mail.   The fax and paper mail
   transmission to the FIs must duplicate (facsimile) of the SSA-4641-U2 form.  The AFI system shall return the information to SSA in electronic
   format only. (See Section 3(i), "Integration with SSA Architecture").


   The AFI system shall keep track of the status of requests to allow SSA users to know the status at any time.  The system shall have the
   capability to pass digitized statements from the FIs to the SSA business units. The system shall allow the SSA business unit to view,
   retrieve, save, or print the documents provided by the FIs directly from the system.   The system shall be able to enter these documents from
   electronic transmissions or scanned into the system manually.


   The system shall have an interface used by SSA and FIs to automate the SSI asset verification process to verify account balances at FIs and
   search for specified and undisclosed accounts at selected or geographically searched FIs.  The system shall filter requests to ensure that
   duplicate requests are not transmitted to the FIs.  The Contractor shall develop and implement processes that will facilitate the best
   efficiencies in the exchange of requests between the AFI system and the FIs.




   3. AFI System Functions


   The AFI system functions and features below are the minimum expected for the system upon acceptance.  All system functions shall be tested and
   subject to SSA acceptance.  SSA shall work with the Contractor to refine the exact parameters of each of the following functions during
   development.  Requirements described in other sections of this statement of work shall also be considered standard functions and part of the
   system.


       1. Internet User Interface – Web Form (Initial Operative Solution)


      The AFI system shall have an internet web interface and be compliant with SSA’s Information Technology System Security Standards (Reference
      Section C “SSA Information Technology System Security Standards”).  This web form is an emulation of the paper SSA-4641-U2 paper form.
      This interface shall be in place on the AFI system until such time as SSA has fully integrated data transfer and programming to automate
      requests from SSA’s Web Service Interface system to automatically send the requests to the Contractor electronically.  The web interface
      shall be kept operational until full integration with SSA web services has been completed.  At that time, the Contracting Officer’s
      Technical Representative (COTR) shall provide instructions to the Contractor to either keep the system operating in parallel to the SSA’s
      automated Web Service Interface system or make the system dormant in full or in part. If the Interface System is made dormant, the system
      shall be kept in a ready state and shall be capable of re-activation within seven (7) calendar days of an order to re-activate the web
      interface for users.


           1. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act


         Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) and additional agency specific
        accessibility requirements, hereafter referred in total as “SSA’s Accessibility Requirements,” are determined to be relevant for this
        contract.  Please reference Section D “Documents, Exhibits, or Attachments” for a specific listing of all applicable SSA Accessibility
        Requirements for this solicitation.


           2.   System Support (Functions)


        The AFI system shall have built in support on the internet web-interface, allowing the user to have instant support online as part of
        the system.


              1. Information for Support


           The system shall provide SSA personnel support contact information.


              2. Online Help functions


           The system shall have at least a contact support option for instant categorized emails and merger and acquisition functionality for
           the latest information on banking dispositions.


              3. Wizard


           The system shall provide the ability to use a “Wizard” or Wizard like format to guide the user through the request process.   The
           Wizard shall check to ensure that all appropriate information and fields have been populated.




       2. Email Notifications


      The system shall provide email notifications of the status/disposition of the request, when selected by the user.  The system shall allow
      the user to choose which types of email notifications that the user will receive.  Email notices may be based on a specific point in the
      process, or the user may choose only to receive email notifications of specific requests. Email notifications are sent to the individual’s
      email address and copied to other specified business unit email addresses, as directed by SSA.


       3. New Request Function


      The new request function allows the user to create a new request or Geographic request to any participating FI.   The system shall capture
      all information as required on the SSA-4641-U2 paper form.


      In addition, the new request allows the user to generate and print a paper SSA-4641-U2.   Based on the FI information entered by the user,
      the accurate and current mailing address for the FI shall appear, pre-printed, in the appropriate field on page one of the form.
      Additionally, any customer information, specific request data, and remarks entered by the user shall appear, pre-printed, on the form.  The
      user will use the paper form to obtain customer authorization for non-participating FIs and will then mail the form to the FI.


       4. Unsent Request Function


      The system shall allow for requests to be in process and held for editing and submittal at a later time, as selected by the user.


       5. Auto Save Function


      Information typed into requests shall, in predetermined intervals, automatically save in the event that a system malfunction occurs during
      editing.


       6. Copy Request Function


      The system shall allow for replication of customer address and FI information from a request to subsequent requests in order to propagate
      new requests for multiple individuals in the same household.


       7. Individual Request filtering


      The system shall be capable of tracking all of an individual user’s requests and provide feedback on those requests for at least:


            • All Requests - The system shall provide a listing of the requests associated with an individual user; i.e. created requests,
              submitted requests, saved or unsent requests, requests responses, requests in process, etc.


            • Alerts or Program Generated Status - The system shall provide status of pending requests.


            • Access to Closed Requests – Users shall have the ability to access closed requests.  Period of retention on active system shall be
              no longer than 24 months.  Historical records shall be kept on file according to National Archives and Records Administration
              (NARA)  36 CFR Subchapter 3 guidelines.

       8. Managing Requests


      The AFI System shall be capable of handling requests submitted from the internet portal (web form) and from SSA’s Web Services platform.


      The AFI system shall route requests to the FIs. Requests should be directed, when available, to FI central processor components that answer
      requests for all of that FI's locations, regardless of the branch where alleged accounts are held. The system will track pending requests,
      provide feedback on status, and provide a function to automatically follow up with FIs regarding pending requests, per timeframes
      established by SSA.  When responses are received from the FIs, the system shall transmit the response to the internet portal and to SSA’s
      Web Service platform, and post the response onto its web interface. All requests shall be traceable with unique identifiers which will
      allow for full auditing and tracing of requests through the process.  SSA users will be able to view responses or monitor status
      simultaneously through either the internet portal or SSA’s Web Services platform.


      The Contractor shall maintain a secure internal operation to support the conversion of mailed and faxed FI responses to fully electronic
      format that shall be transmitted and posted to the internet portal and SSA's Web Services platform. The converted data will be identical in
      nature to the information provided by fully electronic FIs.


      The Contractor shall provide a special service, limited to and accessible to SSA FO managers and other designated SSA employees, to
      expedite problem cases, certain urgent cases, and delayed cases.


      The internet portal shall be designed to ensure internal consistency, validity, and accuracy of data entry using programmed logic.  This
      logic shall be consistent with SSA’s Web Services platform data entry rules (Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)).  The AFI system shall
      have appropriate programming to accommodate the complete work flow process.


       9. Billing and Accounting Functions


      The AFI system shall have billing and accounting functionality.  This functionality shall allow for electronic invoicing and automated
      (direct deposit) reimbursement for FIs. The Contractor’s billing and accounting system shall have the capacity to interface with SSA’s
      internal accounting system. The Contractor's system shall maintain detailed data corroborating specific invoices for FI reimbursement with
      the associated FI responses. The Contractor shall provide SSA with electronic access to this data for review and audit. This data will be
      maintained for a minimum of 6 years and 3 months.  The current billing requirements for this process are described in Section C “Billing
      Instructions to Financial Institutions.”


      10. Financial Institution Search Function


      The system shall have the functionality to allow SSA personnel to search for specified FIs and to conduct geographic searches for non-
      specified FIs.


           1.  Specified FI Searches


        The system shall have the functionality to allow users to search for Specified FIs.  The system shall provide search capability for
        Participating FIs, Non-Participating FIs, and Non-Contacted FIs.  The search function shall be capable of using the following criteria
        or a combination thereof:


               • FI Name - based on industry standards or upon naming conventions agreed upon by the Contractor and SSA.


               • Office Type - banks have hierarchical designations, such as head or district offices or branch offices.

               • Participation Status - Participating, Non Participating, Non-Contacted, or other


               • Address of Bank – street  name and number

               • City

               • State

               • Zip – nine digit zip code

               • Routing Transit Number (RTN)


           SSA often receives information on direct deposit routing numbers but does not have the associated bank information.  The system must
           be capable of searching with a routing number only. The system will identify and flag any specified FI requests as such.


           2. Geographic Searches – Non-Specified FIs


        The System shall have the functionality to select non-specified FIs using a geographic search to identify FIs with potentially
        undisclosed financial accounts.  The system shall be able select up to ten (10) FIs with locations within specified radii from the
        address(es) associated with each specific request(s) provided by SSA.  However, the system will be designed so that the number of
        geographic searches can be altered if deemed so necessary by SSA. The FIs selected for the geographic search shall not duplicate any FIs
        selected for a specified search.


        The geographic search system must have enhanced selection logic and accommodate statistical modeling and probability scoring in the
        selection of local FIs that are most likely to yield undisclosed account information.  The Contractor’s system shall use formulas which
        incorporate variables such as size of the FI, whether the institution is an industry-specific or limited-membership credit union, and
        population density (urban, suburban, rural), to determine the probability of finding those FIs which yield optimal results.  The
        parameters, criteria and methodology for selection are to be established and controlled by SSA in consultation with the Contractor, and
        available for modification as necessary to account for changing conditions and demographics.  This system should be updated at least
        annually to reflect changes in residential addresses and related information.


      11. System Training Function


      The Contractor shall create a Training Function on the system to allow end users to practice.  The Training Function shall mimic the full
      system; however, there shall be appropriate safeguards in place to ensure that production data and requests are not impacted.

   4. Database Repository of Financial Institutions


   The AFI system shall include an electronic repository of all depository FIs doing business in the United States , the District of Columbia,
   the Northern Marianas Islands, and the 5 largest non-U.S. FIs headquartered or with branches in Puerto Rico.  The repository shall include at
   least all of the following information for each FI location:


      • FI name
      • Participation Status – Participating, non-participating, non-contacted
      • Type of bank
      • Street Address, City, State, and ZIP
      • Routing Transit Number (RTN)
      • Central Processor indicator
      • Unique ID for each FI location


   The repository must be update, at minimum, once every six months to reflect any FI changes such as those occurring through mergers, buyouts,
   bankruptcies, consolidations or the creation of new FIs.  In addition, the database shall contain updated location information for each FI
   branch. The database shall be the property of SSA; however, if the Contractor has a separate, proprietary FI database, the Contractor shall
   create a utility where validated changes to Contractor’s proprietary FI database are automatically updated to the AFI System database.


   FI changes will be automatically identified in the AFI System for pending requests. The pending requests shall be rerouted to the appropriate
   FI processor, if necessary.   The Contractor shall furnish an electronic copy of this file, with periodic updates, to SSA to be used for the
   integration and implementation of the system within SSA’s mainframe computing operations.


   5. System Availability / Redundant Processes


   The system shall be available 99.5% of the time during operating hours (Reference Section 6(b)(iv) ‘Systems Hours of Operation’ for a list of
   required operation hours).  The Contractor shall design the system to have redundancy in critical components to insure availability stays at
   the levels prescribed and protect against data loss in the event of unexpected system outage or failure.


   The Contractor shall backup the database on a nightly basis and provide secure storage for a minimum of one month, rotating storage media
   throughout that month.   Data storage media, i.e. tapes, hard drives, etc. must be degaussed prior to disposal in accordance with:


       • Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA)
       • Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act of 2003 (FACTA)
       • Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB)
       • Public Company Accounting Reform and Investors Protection Act (Sarbanes-Oxley)


   6. Records Management


   Historical data shall be kept and managed in accordance with a records management system (RMS) and National Archives and Records
   Administration (NARA) standards. Data security practices shall follow the information found in the Special Publications published by the
   National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) (see Section C.2)


   7. Scalability

   The system must have the scalability to accommodate the necessary transactions for all SSI claimants, beneficiaries and deemors for all 50
   States, the District of Columbia, and the Northern Mariana Islands.  SSA will implement states, scheduled by groups, and the system shall be
   scalable to operate based on SSA’s schedule. The Contractor shall have sufficient bandwidth to accommodate all of SSA’s send and receive
   requests.


   8. System Security


   The system shall have data security procedures and system access controls to protect the personal information of SSI claimants. The contractor
   understands that all identifying and financial information captured and communicated by the contractor is confidential and subject to the
   provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 as well as other related laws governing the disclosure of information, e.g., Right to Financial Privacy
   Act of 1978.  The contractor will ensure that all personnel and systems involved in the project adhere to all privacy provisions for
   protecting against unlawful disclosure of confidential information.


       1. Electronic Audit Trail


      The Contractor shall maintain an electronic audit trail of transactions indicating the identity, date and location of the individual
      accessing information.  This audit information will be available through an electronic database available to designated SSA security
      personnel.  Creation, modification, and deletion of 4641 requests will be logged. User logon to the system will be logged. Assignment or
      changing of rights, roles, or privileges within the system will be logged.


       2. Financial Institution Security


      The Contractor shall demonstrate that it is authorized to process account information with Financial Institutions. The Contractor shall
      develop a secure online interface with FIs and ensure that FIs have in place appropriate security measures.  The Contractor shall maintain
      internal controls to validate documented security measures at FIs.


       3. SSA Systems Security Requirements


      The system must include the security controls, functional characteristics, capabilities, and interconnections of the hardware, software,
      and telecommunications consistent with SSA’s enterprise architecture and must meet the requirements of SSA’s information technology system
      security standards.  The system should meet a “Moderate” baseline of controls as defined by NIST SP-800-53 and SSA. (Reference Section C.2
      ‘Clauses Incorporated by Full Text’).

       4. Notification of Security Violations


      The AFI system shall be able to identify and alert electronic security violations to the Contractor.  The full range of reportable security
      incidents will be detailed in the Agency Information System Security Handbook which are supplied upon award.  These would include but not
      be limited to, unauthorized accesses, anomaly traffic detected, and any software, spyware, or malware installed without intent.  The system
      shall maintain a log of all user access/attempts and any user commands entered by user ID or other identifying characteristics.  The events
      shall be date and time-stamped, and include, at a minimum, information identifying the user, the event (with any related notes), the origin
      point, the destination point, and the status of the event.  This information is intended to be sufficient for any after-the-fact
      investigation of unauthorized access, data loss, or improper activities, and for legal remedies.


      The Contractor’s system shall log all failed logon attempts, and disable the account after three (3) tries.  The number of attempts shall
      be configurable.


      Reference Section C.3 “Agency Specific Clauses,” for instructions of reporting lost Personally Identifiable Information (PII).


   9. Integration with SSA Architecture (SSA Web Service Integration)


      SSA plans to make programming changes in its current SSI claims architecture and provide a mechanism to capture required information and
      send that information to the AFI system directly.  Both the web internet interface and the direct system interaction with SSA shall be
      operable in parallel.  The system shall be made compatible with SSA’s architecture and be capable of interacting with and transferring data
      with SSA, sending data to SSA and receiving data from SSA, using SSA required formats and protocols.


      The Contractor shall provide the following:


            • Web Service Communication between SSA Web Service and Contractor’s Web Service
            • Contractor’s  support for Software Development Lifecycle
            • Upgrades


       1. SSA AFI Web Service Communications

      The Contractor’s Web Service shall integrate and communicate with SSA’s J2EE (Java 2 Enterprise Architecture) Web Service in real time. SSA
      already has many projects currently utilizing SSA’s Web Services, and information on the general Web Services architectures can be found in
      Section D “References.”


      Contractor shall integrate and adhere to the communication requirements and parameters listed below:

      The new SSA AFI Web Service will communicate to the Contractor using the SSA agency standard security and mediation layer in real time. The
      details of the security and mediation layers are outlined below.


      In general, the AFI Web Service will accept input from the SSA intranet based SSI (Supplemental Security Income) web application to create
      a Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) request. The SOAP request will be authenticated at the mediation layer using application level
      security through an equipment pin and password. The mediation layer can be hardware or software Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) that will
      monitor, transform, orchestrate and route the message. WS-Security (Web Service Security) and digital certificates will be added to the
      SOAP request header for creating a unique finger print for each request going outside the agency to the business partner. The Advanced
      Encryption Standard (AES) will be used for the data integrity of the SOAP message. At transport layer, end-to-end connection will be
      secured with the Transport Layer Security (TLS) cryptographic protocol over the internet.


       2. AFI Web Service Testing

      The system shall go through SSA testing prior to acceptance.  The Contractor will communicate with SSA’s development team during all phases
      of the SSA Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  There are different phases of software testing that the Contractor is required to
      comply with.


         • Development - agile software development and testing, iterative requirements, development and unit testing.


         • Validation - Validation of test plan, test cases and user scenarios.


         • User Acceptance Testing - Measure the effectiveness and high-productivity of SSA’s business in employing the developed AFI system to
           meet user’s requirements.


         • Performance Testing - Load and stress testing. Code efficiency testing to address performance thresholds and bottlenecks.


         • Integration Testing - Complete rigorous end-to-end testing.


         • Production - Functional Web Service interface with continuous availability defined by the SSA standards.


       3. Upgrades


      The Contractor will make infrastructural enhancements and upgrades to establish and maintain compliance with SSA’s Web Service technology,
      policy and procedures as SSA modernizes its line of business systems.


  10. System As Built Documentation



   The Contractor shall develop complete and current technical systems documentation for the system.

The System as Built Documentation will be provided in draft for the COTR’s review, suggested changes or additions, and approval not later than
30 days after system implementation. These documents must be produced electronically in Microsoft Word 2003 or greater and reflect changes when
revised software is provided to the user community as required in this task.  As changes to the AFI system occur, the System as Built
Documentation will be updated as necessary, and submitted to the COTR for review. The COTR will have 15 days to make suggested changes or
additions. Revisions are due to the COTR no later than 15 days after receipt, and the COTR will provide subsequent approval within 15 days.

   The technical systems documentation should include, but is not limited to, explanations for the following:

       1.  Business Process


      The Contractor shall provide documentation which explains the business process for the AFI System.


        2. FI Recruitment Plan


      Within 15 days of contract award, the Contractor shall provide a comprehensive recruitment plan that will ensure maximum FI participation
      in the AFI program.  The plan shall outline the strategy to ensure maximum participation.  The FI recruitment plan shall include a
      comprehensive training plan detailing how the Contractor shall train the FIs and maintain training and skills in the FIs, as resources
      change within those institutions and to train the FIs in the proper SSA policies and procedures.  The plan shall also include the
      agreements made with the banking institutions and be kept up to date as new agreements are made, dissolved, or modified.


        3. Information Flow and System Configuration


      The documentation shall include a narrative and graphical description of the flow of information and relationships between the key system
      users that describe how information is transmitted and shared between the various users of the system.


        4. Main System Applications


      The documentation shall describe the main system applications that support the business process.  This description should also include the
      logical dependencies and relationships among the core business activities related to the system.


        5. Data Dictionary


      A data dictionary which defines all data elements used within the system with descriptions which identify how data in the system is
      created, maintained, accessed and used.  This discussion should also describe the relationships between key data elements used in the
      system. All computed data values should be clearly defined.


        6. Architecture


      The documentation shall describe the technology infrastructure, with a discussion which identifies the functional characteristics,
      capabilities, interconnections of the system hardware, software, and telecommunication applications.


      The Contractor shall thoroughly document the Web Service interface requirements, specifications, design details, analytical algorithms,
      data models, and technical support processes for the development work done by them at the direction of the AFI project manager (PM).  This
      documentation will be maintained in a well organized electronic (MS Word) format and be immediately accessible by the AFI project team.


4. Implementation Requirements

   1. Schedule


   The AFI system shall be developed, tested and implemented in accordance with the schedule below.


       1. During the first ninety (90) days after contract award the contractor shall complete the following activities:


        Phase One - System Development


         • Development and configuration modification of the AFI System


         • Development of User training and documentation

         • Recruitment of FI’s to support states being implemented


         • Implement SSA Web Services Interface

        Phase Two – State Implementation


         • Implement AFI system and services in New York, New Jersey, California, Texas, Illinois, Georgia, Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio,
           Massachusetts, Michigan, North Carolina, Kentucky, Alabama, Washington, Nebraska, and Montana. (These states represent approximately
           65 percent of initial SSI claims and redeterminations.)


         • Implement fifteen (15) OQP field sites nationwide



       2. During the period following Phase One and Two the contractor shall complete the following activities:


        Phase Three- State Implementation


         • Continued Recruitment of FIs to support implementing states and increase FI participation in the system.


         • Ongoing support of system for implemented states

         • Implement AFI system and services in the following additional states:

                  o Group 2 – nine (9) states within 180 days after contract award date
                  o Group 3 - ten (10) states within  270 days after contract award date
                  o Group 4 – sixteen (16) states within 360 days after contract award date


   In summary, all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Northern Mariana Islands, and 15 OQP sites shall be implemented and supported within the
   first contract year.

   2. Expected Traffic Requirements


      The following estimates of request volumes are to be used for estimating traffic for equipment sizing and work estimates.  They are ROM
      estimates only.


      Estimated Financial Institution Request Volumes


      |Month                |FY 2010         |FY 2011          |
|                     |                |                 |
|October              |                |82,000           |
|November             |                |89,000           |
|December             |                |108,000          |
|January              |                |131,000          |
|February             |                |143,000          |
|March                |                |158,000          |
|April                |                |193,000          |
|May                  |                |218,000          |
|June                 |26,000          |213,000          |
|July                 |27,000          |397,000          |
|August               |31,000          |391,000          |
|September            |35,000          |392,000          |








      Under current SSA procedures, FOs are required to develop information on all liquid income resources from SSI claimant or beneficiary if
      they allege having  liquid resources is $1,250 or more.  Consequently, the current AFI process generates FI bank account requests on
      alleged bank accounts of more than $1,250. This $1,250 dollar amount is referred to as the “current dollar tolerance”.  SSA studies,
      however, have determined that through the AFI system, it is cost effective to pursue FI bank account requests on any alleged bank
      accounts, even those below the current $1,250 amount.  This is referred to as “zero dollar tolerance.”  Since current dollar tolerance
      accounts only comprise about twenty percent of the total alleged accounts for SSI claimants and beneficiaries, transitioning from current
      dollar tolerance to zero dollar tolerance will greatly increase the number of expected FI bank account requests submitted through AFI.


      The following table shows estimated ROM maximum potential request volumes for initial claims and redeterminations at the current dollar
      tolerances expected through September 2011 and the estimated request volumes under zero dollar tolerance levels for the period October
      2011 through May 2012.  The Contractor must achieve system scalability to allow SSA to move to zero tolerances by the beginning of the
      second (2nd) option year.






      |Month                       |Current Dollar Tolerance|Zero Dollar Tolerance        |
|October 2011                |                        |                             |
|                            |390,000                 |2,130,000                    |
|November 2011               |                        |                             |
|                            |390,000                 |2,610,000                    |
|December 2011               |                        |                             |
|                            |390,000                 |2,570,000                    |
|January 2012                |                        |                             |
|                            |400,000                 |2,570,000                    |
|February 2012               |                        |                             |
|                            |420,000                 |2,860,000                    |
|March 2012                  |                        |                             |
|                            |410,000                 |2,710,000                    |
|April 2012                  |                        |                             |
|                            |400,000                 |2,460,000                    |
|May 2012                    |                        |                             |
|                            |410,000                 |2,520,000 *                  |


      *It is expected that the zero dollar tolerance levels will involve FI request volumes at a ROM maximum potential around this number
      throughout the duration of the contract.











   3. System Testing

   Before the proposed solution is implemented into a production environment, SSA will validate and test the system end-to-end to ensure efficacy
   of the operational components, and to ensure the system meets SSA policies, standards, and requirements (including Section 508 compliancy).
   SSA shall test and inspect all components of the system developed by the Contractor to ensure it meets all of the functional requirements
   identified in the design and development process.  SSA shall incorporate this testing into SSA’s acceptance of the system.


   The Contractor shall provide a complete internal test plan to SSA. The plan shall identify testing of all requirements in this scope of work.
   Any work that is in progress or still being worked as part of the integration process shall be noted for later testing as agreed upon by SSA.
   The Contractor shall do a complete validation testing against this test plan, and submit a detailed report against the test plan.  The report
   should have both a textual description of the testing and a checklist outlining the results of each test.


   4. FI Recruitment

   The Contractor shall recruit FIs into the system as SSA’s agent. SSA intends to provide to the Contractor a “Letter of Agency” so that the
   Contractor may act on the agency’s behalf to recruit FIs into the system (See Section D for an example of “Letter of Agency). Recruitment of
   FIs will be dependent on the schedule. Recruitment requires the Contractor to have a good working relationship with the banking institutions,
   as the SSA AFI system is a voluntary system.


       1. FI Recruitment Plan


      The Contractor shall provide a comprehensive recruitment plan that will ensure maximum participation of the FI community. The plan shall
      outline the strategy to ensure maximum participation.  The FI recruitment plan shall include a comprehensive training plan detailing how
      the Contractor shall train the FIs and maintain training and skills in the FIs, as resources change within those institutions and to train
      the FIs in the proper SSA policies and procedures.  The plan shall also include the agreements made with the banking institutions and be
      kept up to date as new agreements are made, dissolved, or modified.


      Within 3 months of recruitment efforts for a given state, FIs with at least 50% of targeted SSI direct depositors in that state shall be
      recruited. Within 6 months of recruitment efforts for a given state, FIs with at least 70% of targeted SSI direct depositors in that state
      shall be recruited. Within 1 year of recruitment efforts for a given state, FIs with at least 85% of targeted SSI direct depositors in that
      state shall be recruited.


       2. Implementation Recruitment


      The Contractor shall act as SSA’s agent and recruit FIs into a voluntary system, allowing SSA to efficiently manage the requests in the
      system.  The Contractor shall act as a single centralized support center for the FI communities and SSA. Recruitment efforts should
      correspond with the implementation schedule outlined in Section 4 (a) “Schedule.) Financial Institutions that SSA requires as part of the
      system include, but are not limited to:


         • Commercial Banks
         • Credit Unions
         • Merchant Banks
         • Savings Banks
         • Savings and Loans (Thrifts)
         • Online Banks (banks with online accounts only)



       3. Financial Institution Training


      The Contractor is responsible to train the FIs recruited to participate in the AFI program.  The Contractor shall provide all documentation
      or web access necessary for the FI operation / execution of e4641 requests. The Contractor shall provide training for new FI participants,
      and retraining for existing FI participants, utilizing the method most appropriate for the situation. The training must provide instruction
      on how to complete the e4641 form properly, according to the instructions printed on the SSA-4641-U2.  Additionally, the Contractor must
      train the FIs to properly search their records for all accounts belonging to a subject individual.


      The training must provide instruction on the acceptability of a certification provided by SSA as a valid customer authorization, as
      described in the Right to Financial Privacy Act, Section 1103(a), under the SSA Commissioner's authority granted in the Social Security
      Act, Section 1631(e)(1)(B)(ii)(III).  That is, an FI will not require a "wet signature" to grant SSA access to the financial records of an
      SSI recipient/claimant.


      The Contractor must provide a user guide for use by FI employees. The Contractor must monitor responses completed by FI employees and audit
      for compliance with the needs of the SSA.


   5. SSA  Personnel Training

      Contractor shall provide training assistance to the SSA Personnel associated with the states implemented in the first contract year and
      subsequent options years, as ordered by SSA.


       1. Training Plan and Training Development


      The Contractor shall provide planning and training support as needed.


           1.  Training Plan


        The Contractor shall develop a training plan for SSA.  The training plan shall have course objectives, reproducible documentation,
        visual depictions (screenshots), script, and methodology to ensure users retain information, i.e. practice sessions.


        The Contractor shall submit a plan to continually evaluate the Contractor’s training and update the training plan based on user feedback
        from SSA and the Contractor’s self evaluation.


        All training materials including documentation, presentations, software, teacher aids, etc., shall be made available to the COTR or
        his/her designee for approval.


           2.  Training Development


        The Contractor shall be required to participate in two (2) IVT training recording sessions, within the base contract year at SSA
        Headquarters located at 6401 Security Blvd., Baltimore MD 21235.  These sessions shall support the filming of scripted, taped sessions,
        to be broadcast at a later date with a live panel.


         The Contractor shall participate in four (4) broadcast day long sessions, answering panel questions. The IVT broadcast may be repeated
        several times during a scheduled day, and at the end of the recorded broadcast, participating FOs are allowed to ask questions of a
        panel of experts. SSA technology and security standards may allow the Contractor attend the broadcast sessions remotely, either through
        video conferencing or through telephone access.  The Contractor may also be requested to attend sessions in person in conjunction with
        the quarterly executive reviews (See Section 5.1.4).




       2. SSA Onsite User Training


      The Contractor shall provide Onsite User training to selected Agency staff for the purpose of familiarizing the users with functionality,
      features, and administrative capabilities of the systems.


      The Agency shall take two (2) tracks in training users at the Field Offices.  The first shall be a train the trainer approach, where user
      training will be provided at various locations with the purpose of those individuals traveling back to their offices and training
      appropriate personnel.  This may also be partially accomplished by providing Field Office  IVT training.  The second track SSA will take is
      to have FO training on-site in SSA Field Offices. At a minimum, the contractor shall provide 22 training sessions (2 per region and 2 for
      headquarters). For user training at SSA facilities training shall be scheduled between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through
      Friday, on Government workdays only (excluding Federal holidays) at the discretion of the Office Manager.


       3. User Guide and Training Manual Development


      The Contractor shall create user guides to allow SSA to distribute to FOs for reference.  User Guides shall be approved by SSA and provided
      to SSA in electronic format to allow for ease of distribution. (See Section D, “Documentation in Accessible Formats.”) User guides will be
      updated by the Contractor when new system enhancements are implemented.  User guides are the property of the government, and SSA shall have
      full rights to reproduce, edit, and/or use as the government deems appropriate.












5. Project Management


   The Project Management Section clarifies standards to be used during the implementation phases of the systems development, implementation of
   the states onto the system, and the development of any task that has a finite delivery time and/or product. The Contractor shall have the
   ability to handle multitask activities.


   The Contractor shall appoint a single project manager who has the responsibility for all services provided under this contract and full
   management authority for all contractor personnel assigned to work on this project.  The project manager shall serve as the primary point of
   contact for the COTR or his/her designee in matters concerning this contract and will interact with other Government Employees as instructed.



   1. Meetings


       1. Kickoff Meeting


      The Contractor shall attend an orientation/kickoff meeting in person at SSA Headquarters, located at SSA Headquarters, 6401 Security Blvd,
      Baltimore MD 21235, as directed and scheduled by the COTR.  It is expected that this meeting shall be 10-12 calendar days after award but
      may be as soon as 3 days post award.

      This orientation will provide familiarization with the current AFI system, as well as a thorough briefing on all contract requirements and
      expectations. The Contractor shall be prepared to discuss in detail overall project management plans and to raise any issues necessary for
      the immediate and effective implementation and administration of this contract.


      This meeting may last up to 3 days.  The Contractor shall be prepared and deliver to that meeting:


     1.    Work Breakdown Schedule (WBS)


        Offer shall provide a complete project plan of tasks, decomposed to a deliverable due each week, in Microsoft Project 2003 (MSP) in
        electronic and paper format.  The Contractor shall deliver the file and a single sheet Gantt chart of the first 6 month contract period.
         A specific format for the MSP shall be provided to the Contractor, and the Contractor shall replace the WBS in the SSA approved format
        and update plan within 10 days of kickoff meeting.  (This format is simply a standard SSA MSP format with specific columns and fields
        for SSA use).


     2. Project Plan written in Microsoft Word


        Contractor shall provide a complete written project plan, based on PMI standards within 30 days after kickoff meeting.  Project Plan
        shall address at least high level WBS, Processes, Risk Management, Quality Management, Communications Management, and methodology on how
        to integrate Earned Value Management (EVM) into the Status reporting written in Microsoft Word 2003, or a later version.


        After discussions on project plan, Contractor shall revise project plan and resubmit for SSA approval within 15 days of return of COTR
        written comments. Subsequent revisions shall be done by Contractor and delivered based on agreement with COTR.

     3. Company Contacts / Overview


        Offer shall provide an overview of the company strategy to make the project successful, and a high level communications document naming
        the project contacts, roles, and responsibilities, to be delivered at the project kickoff meeting.

       2. Implementation/Status Meetings


      The Contractor shall participate in scheduled status meetings as scheduled by SSA.  For status meetings, the Contractor shall prepare and
      submit a proposed agenda prior to the meeting, take minutes at such meetings, and provide a written summary to the COTR within two (2)
      business days.  Implementation status meetings will have a telephone bridge assigned, and the Contractor shall be able to participate
      remotely most days.  The Contractor shall be required to attend at least four (4) implementation/status meetings within the contract year
      at SSA Headquarters located at 6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore MD 21235.  Status meetings are expected to be held weekly but may be
      accelerated if issues arise.


       3. Technical Meetings


      The Contractor shall participate in scheduled technical review meetings as scheduled by SSA.  For technical meetings, the Contractor shall
      prepare and submit a proposed agenda prior to the meeting, take minutes at such meetings, and provide a written summary to the COTR within
      two (2) business days.  Technical meetings will have a telephone bridge assigned, and the Contractor shall be able to participate remotely
      most days.  The Contractor shall be required to attend at least (1) one technical meeting, via telephone or teleconference, per week and
      attend at least (3) three technical meetings within the contract year at SSA Headquarters located at 6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore MD
      21235.  Technical meetings are expected to be held weekly but may be accelerated if issues arise.


       4. Quarterly Executive Review Meetings


      The Contractor shall be required to attend at least four (4) Executive status meetings each contract year at SSA Headquarters located at
      6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore MD 21235.  In the future, these meetings may be held by video conference.


   2. Quality Assurance


   The contractor must ensure technical quality for all tasks.  Controlling the quality of Contractor-produced products is considered by the
   Government to be part of the ongoing responsibility of key contractor technical personnel.


   The Contractor shall provide a Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) for all developmental and managed services activities, no later than 30 days after
   contract award.  The QAP shall be reviewed and approved by SSA.  The Contractor shall report on quality measures as part of regular quarterly
   meetings or as directed by the COTR.


   SSA shall have the right to request changes to the QAP and procedures at any time.


   3. Risk Management


   The Contractor shall perform a risk assessment of the project and system.  The Contractor shall maintain a risk register, to be initially
   provided 30 days after contract award and updated at least monthly or as directed by the COTR.  The Contractor shall report any risks events
   or risk trigger events and provide information to SSA to evaluate the impact and mitigation strategy to SSA.


   4. Status Reporting


   The Contractor shall provide status at both formal meetings and on an ad hoc basis, as requested by the COTR or his/her designee.  Statuses
   shall be given in the format that SSA requests.  Although SSA uses Microsoft Office ® as its standard office suite, the format for status
   reports may change, upon SSA requests or needs.


       1. Ad Hoc and Anecdotal Reporting


      Contractor shall update SSA on the status of the project per SSA’s requests for information.  SSA will endeavor to keep requests aligned
      with scheduled status meetings; however, the Contractor shall return any request for status made through the COTR or his/her designee,
      within 1 business day.  These ad hoc requests are part of the normal developmental and operational management of this system and managed
      services.


6. Operations, Management, and Reporting  Requirements

The Contractor shall provide program support, operations and maintenance of the system, training, system security, change management of the
system, and the acquisition of additional services in support of the AFI program and systems.  SSA will refer to these functions as “Managed
Services.”

   1. Managed Services Requirements


   SSA shall provide to the Contractor a “Letter of Agency” (LOA) to conduct business as SSA’s agent.  The Contractor shall manage all services
   for management of the system; submission, processing, follow up, and retrieval of e4641 requests; FI recruitment into the system; Management
   of the FI reimbursements and the pass through follow up with SSA; management information and analytical analysis; and support for the AFI
   system and its services.


       1. Management of AFI Program


      The Contractor shall provide support of the entire AFI system and services for SSA in relation to the program.  The Contractor shall
      provide all services for the:


         • Management of the system and transmission of data to and from SSA via the AFI system and SSA’s Web Services platform; submission,
           processing, validity checks and work flow processing, follow up, and retrieval of e4641 requests;
         • FI recruitment into SSA's AFI program. Complete management of the FI and user administrative services;
         • Management of the FI reimbursements and the pass through and follow up with SSA;
         • Management information and analysis; and general support of SSA’s program goals.
         • Manage specific functions listed below:




           1.    e 4641 Request Process


        The Contractor shall receive the e4641 request information, through the system internet web form or transmitted electronically via SSA
        web services.  The Contractor shall process the form, checking for errors, validity, missing information, and provide feedback on the
        status of the form to the end user.


        The Contractor shall delete any duplicate FI request for the same customer name, SSN, FI, and time period.  Only one request will be
        sent to the FI.  However, the system shall allow for requests that duplicate the time period, when approved by SSA management, for a
        valid reason.


        The Contractor will provide a process with FIs to enable SSA to request re-verification of reported FI account balances and information
        on specific responses that are incomplete or inconsistent with other information provided by the FI or SSI applicant, recipient, or
        deemor.


        The returned information shall be provided to SSA in electronic format.


        The Contractor shall have the capability to interact with unique processing profiles for every FI.  The Contractor shall interact with
        unique processing profiles, as needed to achieve the service request at all FIs.  For those FIs that do not have the capability to
        transmit information electronically, the Contractor shall manually process the information and enter it into the system for electronic
        transmittal to SSA.


        The Contractor shall process undisclosed /geographic searches as part of the service.  These geographic searches of non-specified FIs
        will be requested on an as needed basis.


           2.  Information required for sending a request


        Information required for sending a request refers to the requested information on the SSA-4641 (Authorization for the Social Security
        Administration to Obtain Account Records from a Financial Institution and Request Records). This document is supplied to the FI.


        The Contractor shall receive the FI request electronically from SSA.  The information that is provided for referral to the FI is at
        minimum, the name of the customer, the customer’s SSN, the customer’s authorization with date of authorization, and may also include a
        combination of the following:


            • Financial Institution ID


            • The name of the FI


            • Bank routing number


            • FI address – if alleged FI name is given.


            • Customer’s alleged account numbers


            • Direct deposit indicator per account


            • Joint account indicator per account


            • Date range for the request and SSA authorizer


            • Any remarks provided by SSA for the request (remarks are usually other names for the customer), and


            • If a representative payee’s authorization is required that is also provided.


           3.  Geographic Searches – Non-Specified FIs


        The Contractor shall also send geographic FI request(s) to a number of undisclosed FIs specified by SSA.  The FIs are selected by their
        proximity to the address specified by SSA.  SSA shall develop with the Contractor algorithms, FI profiles, and statistical modeling to
        enhance search capabilities.  The non-specified search shall utilize the combination of geographical characteristics and the
        aforementioned enhanced search capabilities.  In the event that more than one location of the same FI are within the search radius, the
        request will go only to the FI central processor or to only one FI location identified in the geographic search, and only one will count
        towards SSA’s specified number.  The search parameters are determined by SSA.


           4.    Required Information returned to SSA


        FIs shall return FI account data to the Contractor, which the Contractor must convert to an electronic format usable by SSA.  The
        Contractor shall provide all of the FI response information to SSA electronically.  Thus, if the FI is paper based, balances shall be
        entered into an electronic format by the Contractor. (Note:  Two entry points will be available in the future, the web internet portal
        and the SSA Web Services electronic transfer service.  These two systems must be able to work simultaneously and be accessible from
        either system interface.)


        The Contractor must be able to demonstrate that all of the information is retrieved directly from the FI and not secondary sources.
        The FI data retrieved must be current.


        The Contractor shall furnish monthly balances for a requested date range, the default of which will be 26 consecutive months; however,
        SSA reserves the right to request different amounts or change the default, if SSA determines that a business need exists. Upon request
        by SSA the Contractor shall provide detailed financial account activity statements received directly from the FIs.


        The FI responses for the SSA-4641 must include:


               • First of the month balances individually, as required by statute and the SSA-4641, for all accounts held by an individual at the
                 selected institution for any specific period(s) of time requested by SSA for each specific request ("First of the month balance"
                 is defined as the opening balance as of the first day of the month for each account, or the balance as of the close of business
                 as of the last day of the previous month, for each account.) Additionally, SSA Personnel can request a different number of
                 months, on a case by case basis.  Date ranges will be configurable on a per request basis.


               • Interest paid by month


               • Account number


               • Type of account


               • Full title and account designation of each account found.


               • Ownership and access to funds information and any other information required by SSA.


               • All accounts held by the customer for any period requested not just accounts identified by SSA.


               • Any type of account held by the requested individual whether joint or individual owned.  This includes trusts, Uniform Gift to
                 Minors, burial fund, business account, etc.


               • All opened and closed account located during the date range provided must be included by the FI.


               • Account information such as access to funds if available.


           5.    Management of Request Process


         The Contractor shall provide complete services to manage the entire AFI system request process.  The Contractor shall collect responses
        from the FIs, checking for errors, completeness, validity, and other programmatic triggers.


        The FI returns the FI account data to the Contractor and the Contractor must convert the response to an electronic format usable by SSA.


        The system should also include a facility for readily identifying and generating high SSI balance alerts and alerts to notify FIs of
        potential suspicious account activity.


        The Contractor shall provide SSA notification of FI issues that will cause delays in answering the FI requests via the system.  The
        Contractor shall also provide alerts to the individual adjudicating the request and SSA office when an individual account balance for
        any month exceeds an amount(s) established by SSA.


        The Contractor shall automate processing workflows due to ownership change of the financial institution due to merger, acquisition or
        take over.  These types of changes affect the SSA workflow, selection of undisclosed FIs, and processing centers for the FI requests and
        response.  SSA must be notified of any merger, acquisition or takeover.


        The Contractor shall notify SSA’s COTR or designee of any actions or problems with the banking community as soon as possible.  This
        includes but is not limited to FI closings or openings, addition of new participating FIs, FI mergers and acquisitions. Notifications
        shall be posted to the AFI website only with clearance and agreement of the project manager or designee.


        The Contractor shall provide statistical reports, analytical reports and data files of all requests and responses to SSA.  The
        Contractor shall provide the FI account balance on a case by case basis to each requestor plus send data files to SSA with information
        for all requests, responses and banking data.


       2. Ongoing Support


      The Contractor is responsible for Ongoing Support of the AFI System in all States subsequently implemented. The following are Ongoing
      Support Requirements:


         • The Contractor shall support the front-end and back-end operation of the SSI Asset Verification Program, including the Geographic
           search or a similar application, in all states implemented.


         • The Contractor shall incorporate a record of FI requests issued to FIs by SSA under the current e4641 process to insure that no
           duplicate requests are generated to FIs by the new system.


         • The system shall have work flow processes, analytical processes, and variable logic and programming built into the system, as
           specified by SSA.


         • System acceptance and implementation of the system and all services in the first states within the first 90 day phase shall be
           considered a “minimal functional system.”


      Because the system shall require integration with SSA’s architecture and a refinement of work flow processes over phases within the first
      contract year, programming changes and logic parameters for the system shall be considered in process until the full integration with SSA
      has been completed, tested, and accepted.


      During this development stage, the Contractor shall provide ongoing changes to the system based on iterative or agile design and
      discussions regarding the system operation.  Once the baseline system is accepted, a change control process will be put in place to
      minimize changes.


      All design documentation shall be considered in draft until that acceptance, and the Contractor shall provide a final baseline document 30
      days after the COTR has designated the baseline configuration is complete.




       3. Maintenance of the System


      The Contractor shall be responsible for providing maintenance for all items supplied for the system, the system operation or connectivity
      issues in relation to the transmission of data to and from the SSA Web Services platform.  The Contractor shall provide all of the
      necessary tools, parts, equipment, and transportation to service any of the system components. The Contractor shall provide routine
      maintenance to the system. Routine Maintenance includes activities such as patches, memory upgrades, disk cleanup etc. Routine Maintenance
      shall be initiated by the Contractor, but approved by the COTR. Such maintenance shall occur after normal business hours. Special requests
      to provide maintenance during business hours must be approved through SSA.


      Maintenance activities shall be reported and updated through SSA’s Division of National Network Services and Operation’s (DNNSO) Change
      Management System (CMS) and adhere to SSA’s change management policies.


       4. Financial Institution Management


           1.   Financial Institution Recruitment


         The Contractor shall act as a single centralized support center for the FI community and SSA.  The Contractor shall provide ongoing FI
        recruitment and maintenance support.


           2.   Financial Institution Relationship Management

        For both participating and non-participating FIs, the Contractor must demonstrate its familiarity with each FI's process for handling
        external requests for disclosure of financial account data, and specifically for handling the SSA-4641 and with the key personnel
        involved in such processes.   Additionally, the Contractor must demonstrate that they can maintain the following current information for
        all FIs holding depository accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands:  name of the business unit, or
        units, within the FI that processes the SSA-4641 form, the mailing address, including any internal routing indicators needed for sending
        mail to the business unit.


        The necessary level of FI access could be accomplished by establishing a relationship through financial industry associations,
        regulatory entities, or financial institution registries.   The Contractor could demonstrate this level of access by being in a position
        to enforce immediate notification of internal changes in operational structure at FIs doing business in the United States.


        The Contractor must be able to ensure that this information is current for all FIs for two purposes.  1.) SSA employees will be using
        the e4641 system to generate and print paper SSA-4641 requests for non-participating FIs.  The form will have pre-printed information
        based on the FI selected by the user, including the accurate and current mailing address for the FI, in the appropriate field on page
        one of the form.   SSA depends on the system to provide a current and accurate address for mailing the form.  2.) For requests sent to
        participating FIs through the system, the Contractor must be able to ensure that those requests are conveyed directly to the specific FI
        business unit, generally a central processing office, trained by the Contractor to properly handle SSA-4641 requests.


        For any given FI, the Contractor must be in a position to know when these business units are closed, consolidated, divided, or moved, so
        that requests can be routed or re-routed properly, without interruption to the FI request and response functions for SSA users.   The
        Contractor must be in a position to know, in advance, whether changes to FI community, including mergers, acquisitions, etc., could
        impact the SSA request and response function, and be able to mitigate this impact.


       5. Financial Institution Reimbursement


        Financial Institutions are eligible for reimbursement for reasonable necessary costs directly incurred in assembling or providing
        customer financial records to government authority pursuant to the Right to Financial Privacy Act.  Regulation S (12 CFR part 219)
        establishes the rates and conditions for this reimbursement.  SSA's experience has been that FIs with more sophisticated technology have
        elected to forego reimbursement for providing financial information.  However, should FIs choose to seek reimbursement,  the Contractor
        shall reimburse the FIs within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of a proper invoice (see Section D for SSA’s Billing Instructions to
        Financial Institutions.)  A proper invoice (paper or electronic) submitted by the FI must include the following:


               • FI name, remittance address, and banking information for ACH payment
               • Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
               • Invoice Number
               • Invoice Date
               • Claimant Name
               • Request Number(s)/Unique Identifier
               • Itemized amounts for Search and Processing Costs, Reproduction Costs, and Transportation Costs (by request number)
               • Total Invoice Amount


        Detailed documentation from the FI must be retained by the Contractor for electronic access by SSA for review.


        The reimbursement by the Contractor is only payable after receipt of the FI account data.  The Contractor is authorized to reject
        invoices that do not comply with submission requirements noted above.  These rejections shall be noted as FI Reimbursement exceptions,
        and the Contractor shall appropriately note and escalate to SSA any billing that does not adhere to Regulation S requirements.


        In addition, if an FI's request for reimbursement appears excessive or unreasonable, the Contractor shall contact the FI for an
        explanation to determine if the charges are accurate.  The Contractor shall provide a report regarding these exceptions.


       6. Contractor Reimbursement


        The Contractor shall seek reimbursement from SSA monthly, or more frequently, if agreed upon by both parties.  SSA shall reimburse the
        Contractor within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a proper and auditable invoice.  The Contractor shall provide proper
        documentation supporting the billed amounts by the FIs.  A proper invoice submitted by the Contractor must include the following:
            • Contractor name, address, and contact information
            • Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
            • Invoice Number
            • Invoice Date
            • Contract Number
            • Invoice amount with the description and quantity of transactions
            • Remittance Address and Banking Information
            • Shipping and payment terms
            • DUNS number as required by CCR
            • Substantiating documentation or information required by the contract for each request
            • Request Number with corresponding FI reimbursement information including Payee Bank, Invoice Number, Transaction Items, Hours per
              Transaction, Rate, Total Amount, Submission Date, and Reimbursement Date


   2. Customer Service Requirements


   The following Customer Service Requirements shall be in force for all of the Contractor’s managed services and operation of the system.


       1. Sending Responses


      The Contractor shall process and send electronic requests within 1 hour upon receipt of request from SSA.


      The Contractor shall process and send fax and paper requests by close of following business day.


       2. Internet System Page Response Time


      The Contractor’s system and internet interface screens shall process and change to next screen within 5 seconds.  The timing of the
      processing of the Contractor’s systems shall begin when the request leaves SSA’s internet gateway.   SSA shall be responsible for any
      delays due to network traffic delays associated with SSA’s internet connections, both for inbound traffic and outbound traffic.  The
      Contractor is responsible for meeting the Customer Service Requirement beyond that.   SSA shall have the right to put traffic sniffing
      devices on the SSA equipment and on the vendor’s equipment to do measurements to determine any delays due to WAN network traffic
      conditions.  The Contractor shall have appropriate bandwidth sized to handle the amount of requests.


       3. FI Repository Updates


      The FI repository of financial institutions shall be kept up to date. Any change in the FI status, to include any of the data fields, shall
      be changed and updated within 2 business days.


      The Contractor shall notify the SSA user via email, if any requests have been made to a non viable institution.


       4. System Hours of Operation


      The hours of operation for the system shall be in concert with SSA’s mainframe, which is listed below.


      |Monday-Friday             |5:00 a.m. - 1:00 a.m.                                          |
|Saturday                  |5:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m.                                         |
|Sunday*                   |8:00 a.m. – 11:30 p.m.                                         |
|Federal Holidays          |Same availability hours as Monday - Sunday for the day on which|
|                          |the Holiday occurs                                             |


      The preceding times are based on Eastern Standard Time (EST) and Eastern Daylight Savings Time (DST) , as applicable. *These dates shall be
      superseded by scheduled maintenance activities by SSA throughout the year.


       5. Helpdesk hours of operation


      Phone support shall be available to SSA users Monday through Friday between 8:00 am and 9:00 pm Eastern Standard Time, and shall move to
      Eastern Daylight Savings Time as applicable.


       6. System Availability


      During the principle hours of operation the system shall operate at 99.5% availability. The Contractor shall notify SSA and all FOs when
      the Contractor’s automated system is not available due to communications or systems outages, emergency maintenance, or for any other reason
      within 30 minutes of discovering an issue. Once an issue arises, the Contract, at a minimum, must take the following actions:


            • Generate critical alarms in the Contractor’s system.

            • Notify the SSA helpdesk, within 30 minutes of being aware of the problem.   At the same time, the Contractor shall email the COTR
              of the problem.

            • Repair the problem within 8 hours of discovering the issue. If repair is not completed within 8 hours, the Contractor shall comply
              with the escalation procedures provided by the COTR.


   3. Management Information Requirements


   The Contractor shall provide management information reports as part of ongoing operation of the AFI System. These reports shall be submitted
   electronically to the COTR.  The Contractor shall modify reports as requested by SSA, providing that the modifications do not require core
   system programming work of more than eight (8) hours.  Report modifications or new requests that require more than 8 hours programming
   support, per request, shall be identified as a Supplemental Requirement.

       1. FI Charge Reports


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying daily FI charges, weekly FI charges, and quarterly FI charges.


           1. Daily FI Charge Summary Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying daily FI charges. These reports shall include:


            • total responses
            • responses billed
            • amount billed
            • average charge billed
            • median charge billed
            • percent of billing FIs


        The ‘Daily FI Charge Summary Reports’ shall be prepared for national, regional, state, and FO level results and should be provided on a
        weekly basis.


           2. Weekly FI Charge Summary Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying weekly FI charges. These reports shall include:


            • the total number of requests broken down by type of request (i.e. specified and non-specified geographic searches)
            •  the number of non-specified geographic in which no FI was disclosed or alleged.


        The ‘Weekly FI Charge Summary Reports’ shall be prepared by state. These reports are due once a week for the first 3 months of a given
        state’s rollout. Thereafter, the reports will be due once a month.


           3.   Quarterly FI Charge Summary Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying quarterly FI charges. These reports shall include:


            • total responses
            • responses billed
            • amount billed
            • average charge billed
            • median charge billed per request
            • percent of billing FIs


        The ‘Quarterly FI Charge Summary Reports’ shall be sorted in descending order by the top 25 FIs with the most depositors.


        The Quarterly and provided on a monthly basis.


           4.  Monthly FI Charge Exceptions Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports that detail the FI billing that is inconsistent with Regulation S (Reference Section 6(a)(vi)). The
        report shall have detail outlined by FI, amount billed, request identifier, request date, date service completed, date billed, and
        reason for out of scope billing. These reports should be sorted (in descending order) for the 25 largest FIs (as defined by the number
        of direct depositors or other agreed upon measure).


       2. FI Processing Reports


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying daily FI processing activity.


           1. Daily FI Processing Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying daily FI processing activity. These reports shall include:


            • total FI account Request Responses submitted and billed
            • percent of responses
            • median number of days the FI took to  respond to account information request
            • a breakout of the percentage of FI request responses on the same day and for several (not to exceed seven) subsequent period
              categories


        These reports shall be provided on a weekly basis.


           2. FI Breakout Report


        Contractor shall provide reports that summarize by FI, total responses submitted and billed, percent response, median number of days to
        response, and a breakout of the percentage of responses on the same day and for several (not to exceed seven) fixed period categories.
        This report should be sorted (in descending order) by 25 of the largest FIs (as defined by the number of depositors or other agreed upon
        measure).


        These reports shall be provided on a weekly basis.

       3. FO Processing Reports


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying Daily FO Processing Activity, Quarterly FO Processing Activity, Duplicate FO
        Processing Activity, and No FO Processing Activity.


           1. Daily Processing Reports


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying Daily Processing Activity. These reports shall include:


            • created requests
            • submitted requests
            • total response
            • opened responses
            •  unopened responses above $2,000


        The ‘Daily FO Processing Activity Reports’ shall be prepared for national, regional, and state, FOs.


         These reports shall be provided on a weekly basis.


           2. Quarterly FO Processing Activity Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying Quarterly FO Processing Activity. The reports shall include:


            • total requests for the most recent and each successive past quarter


        The “Quarterly FO Processing Activity Reports’ shall be prepared at the state and FO level.


        These reports are due on a monthly basis.


           3. Duplicate FO Processing Activity


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying Duplicate FO Processing Activity. These reports shall include:


            • the number of duplicate requests for the latest week
            • the number of duplicate request for the previous quarter


         The ‘Duplicate FO Processing Activity’ shall be provided on a weekly basis.


           4. No FO Processing Activity Report


        The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying No FO Processing Activity. These reports shall include:


            • a list of FOs with no requests for the latest week


        The ‘No FO Processing Activity Report’ shall be provided on a weekly basis.


       4. Recruitment Activity Report


      The Contractor shall provide reports capable of identifying Recruitment Activity per state. These reports shall include:


            • information on FI recruitment contacts made
            • ongoing negotiations between the Contractor and the FI
            • FIs with agreements to sign
            • FIs with signatures obtained
            • FIs that have begun participating
            • the FI name and number of direct depositors for the top fifty percent (50%) of FIs for each state should be shown
            • the percentage of total direct depositors that participating FIs comprise for each state


      The ‘Recruitment Activity Report’ shall be prepared one month after implementing a given state. Thereafter the ‘Recruitment Activity
      Report’ shall be prepared on a quarterly basis.


       5. Weekly Data Extraction


      The Contractor shall provide Weekly Data Extraction Reports to evaluate and refine the FI search criteria and to assess SSA’s usage of the
      system. These reports shall include all SSA-4641 data elements entered by SSA including:


         • the date and time entered,
         • specific information about the FI including:
               o FI name,
               o size as measured by number of depositors or some other agreed-upon measure
               o FI ZIP code
               o FI location distance in miles from the address provided by SSA
         • status and/or final disposition of the request
         • all e4641 data provided on the response by the FI, including the date and time entered,
         • all data pertaining to the FI reimbursement charge, including :
               o the hourly pay scale used,
               o the time used to complete the request,
               o the charge for reproduction,
            o the total charge,
            o the date and time the FI submits the reimbursement request,
               o the date and time the Contractor either reimburses the FI or escalates the           request for SSA intervention.


   4. Operational Documentation Requirements



   The Contractor shall develop and keep current a complete and current operational manual for the system.  The operational manual documentation
   will be provided in draft for the COTR’s review. Upon receipt, the COTR will make suggested changes or additions, and approve no later than 30
   days prior to first phase of state implementation. These documents must be produced electronically in Microsoft Word format.


   As changes to the system occur (due to enhancements, corrections, etc.), the manual and other operational documentation shall be updated as
   necessary. These updated documents shall be submitted to the COTR for approval no later than 15 days after the operational change.

   The operational documentation should be user-friendly to facilitate the training of systems users and should include, but is not limited to,
   explanations for the following:



       1. Exclusions


      The functionality for handling the inappropriate creation of e4641 requests in cases which should be excluded from the initiation of an
      asset verification request.  The Contractor shall create and update the process to automatically exclude these requests and provide
      feedback to SSA for the final determination or repair of those requests.


       2. Navigation


      The processes of navigating the web-based AFI application to complete the resources verification process, updating the system application,
      mailing the information to FIs, monitoring the status of requests, and updating the system when all responses are received from FIs.

       3. Bank Account Verification


      This is the process for identifying and conducting bank account verification and conducting the necessary follow-ups for participating FIs
      using the system’s bank verification process.


       4. Geographic Searches


      The procedures for identifying and conducting a geographic search or undisclosed bank account search.


   5. Operational Status Meetings


       1. Staff Meetings


      The Contractor shall participate in scheduled operational status meetings as scheduled by SSA.  For status meetings, the Contractor shall
      prepare and submit a proposed agenda prior to the meeting, take minutes at such meetings, and provide a written summary to the COTR within
      two (2) business days.  Implementation status meetings will have a telephone bridge assigned, and the Contractor shall be able to
      participate remotely.  Operational status meetings are expected to be held every two weeks.


       2. Executive Meetings


      The Contractor shall participate in scheduled Executive Monthly Operational Status Meetings as scheduled by SSA.  For these meetings, the
      Contractor shall prepare and submit a proposed agenda prior to the meeting, take minutes at such meetings, and provide a written summary to
      the COTR within two (2) business days.  Implementation status meetings will have a telephone bridge assigned, and the Contractor shall be
      able to participate remotely most months.


      After implementation has been completed, the Contractor shall be required to attend at least 4 Executive Operational Status Meetings each
      contract year at SSA Headquarters located at 6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore MD 21235.  Onsite Executive Operational Status Meetings may be
      substituted for the regularly scheduled monthly Executive Operational Status Meeting, if designated by SSA.


7. Optional Services

This section presents a set of optional requirements.  The Agency will retain the unilateral option to procure and implement the items below as
separately priced contract line items over the duration of the contract, in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.216-18 and
52.216-22.  Evaluation of these optional services and their inclusion in the contract does not obligate the Agency to purchase these items.

   1. Programming Services


   The Contractor shall provide, labor hour pricing for additional programming services for enhancements and changes beyond the general scope of
   the system. Optional programming services shall be based on an hourly rate set up in the contract, and the Contractor shall provide individual
   quotes for each service requested beyond the scope of the services required in the base contract. Programming, configuration, or any changes
   made to the system for the purposes of maintenance of the system shall not be counted as developmental programming (Refer to Section 6(a)(iv)
   ‘Maintenance of the System’).


   2. Alternate Transition of Current AFI System


   Given SSA has a Proof of Concept System operating in New York, New Jersey, California and the fifteen (15) OQP Field sites, the contractor
   shall transition the existing AFI traffic to the new AFI System. This transition must occur as seamlessly as possible so that, at a minimum,
   the following is maintained:


         • The participation of FIs in New York, New Jersey and California is not significantly reduced

         • Pending AFI requests at the time of transition are not adversely affected

         • All AFI System requirements as described in section 3.3 are maintained










-----------------------
[1] To include: checking and savings accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), vacation or holiday/Christmas club accounts, Individual Retirement
Accounts (IRAs) and Keogh accounts, Money Market Deposit Accounts (MMDA), NOW/ Super NOW Accounts, Passbook accounts,  Savings certificates,
term accounts, time accounts, and share accounts held at credit unions, and any other depository accounts.



                                                                      [pic]


                                                       Social Security Administration (SSA)
                                                                  SSA-RFP-10-1020




                                                           Section C- Contract Clauses




                                                                Table of Contents
FAR Clauses Incorporated by Reference   3
FAR Clauses Incorporated by Full Text   3
Agency Specific Clauses      9

Section C: Contract Clauses

1. FAR Clauses Incorporated by Reference

52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions- Commercial Items (MAR 2009)


2. FAR Clauses Incorporated by Full Text


52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (DEC 2009)

  (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by
reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
    (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
    (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
    (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).
  (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

                                                   [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]

    _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and
10 U.S.C. 2402).
    __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
    __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-
5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
    __ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5).
    __ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    _X_ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (7) [Reserved]
    __ (8)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
    __ (9)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
    _X_ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
    _X_ (11)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
      _X_ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
    __ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
    _X_ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
    __ (14)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
    __ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355,
section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102,
and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
    _X_ (18)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
    _X_ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).
    __ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Aug 2009) (E.O. 13126).
    _X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
    _X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
    _X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    _X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
    _X_ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    _X_ (26) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)
    __ (27)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
      __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-
shelf items.)
    __ (28) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
    __ (29)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
    __ (30) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
    __ (31)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C.
2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
    __ (32) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
    _X_ (33) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
    __ (34) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (35) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (36) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    __ (37) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    _X_ (38) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (39) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (40) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    _X_ (41) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
    __ (42)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
  (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
  [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
    __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009)
(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).
    __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
    __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).
    __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
  (d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records—Negotiation.
    (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right
to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
    (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to
  appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made
available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
    (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
  (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—
      (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
      (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction
of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.
      (iii) [Reserved]
      (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
      (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
      (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
      (vii) [Reserved]
      (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
      (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
      (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).
      (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance
with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
      (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow
down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
    (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary
to satisfy its contractual obligations.

                                                                 (End of clause)

52.217-8 Option to Extend Service. (NOV 1999)


  The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor prior to the expiration date of the contract.


                                                                 (End of clause)

52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000)

  (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration
date of the contract; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least sixty (60)
before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.
  (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
  (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years.

                                                                 (End of clause)

FAR 52.246-11 Higher Level Contract Quality Requirement (FEB 1999)

The Contractor shall comply with the higher-level quality standard selected below. [If more than one standard is listed, the offeror shall
indicate its selection by checking the appropriate block.]

Title                                   Number

National Institute of Standards         800-18
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-30
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-36
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-37
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-53
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-60
Technology (NIST)

National Institute of Standards         800-88
Technology (NIST)

3. Agency Specific Clauses


0401 – Security and Suitability Requirements (OCT 2008)

   a. Acronyms and Definitions
      • Access to a facility, site, system or information means physical access to any Social Security Administration (SSA) facility or site,
        logical access to any of SSA’s information systems, or access to programmatic or sensitive information.


      • CO - Contracting Officer


      • CPSPM – Center for Personnel Security and Project Management


      • COTR – Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

      • PIV –    Personal Identity Verification




   b. Purpose 
      This clause provides information regarding the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) policies and procedures regarding the conduct of
      background investigations.  The purpose of these investigations is to determine the suitability of contractor employees needing access to
      an SSA facility, site, system, or information.  The clause also describes the process to obtain a PIV credential to gain access.  The
      successful contractor will be required to follow the procedures set forth in this clause commencing at the time of award.


      SSA requires all contractor employees to visit an SSA facility to obtain a credential after SSA has conducted and favorably adjudicated a
      background investigation.  The COTR will inform the contractor of the location and time to obtain a credential.


      This clause must be included in all subcontracts awarded by the contractor wherein subcontractor employees will have access to a facility,
      site, system, or information.

   c. Authorities
         • Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12)


         • Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-05-24


         • The Crime Control Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, subtitle E, as amended by Public Law 102-190 (for childcare center security
           requirements)


         • Executive Orders 10450 and 12968 and Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 731, 732 and 736 (for positions assigned a
           “National Security” designation)


   d. Background Investigation and Adjudication Process
      The background investigation and adjudication processes are compliant with 5 CFR 731.

   e. Required Forms
      All contractor employees who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit to SSA the following
      forms.  Some of the forms are available electronically (see website addresses below):

         • 2 Forms FD-258, Applicant Fingerprint Chart (The CO will provide the FD-258 forms at the time of the contract award.)
           NOTE: The contractor will be responsible for obtaining and providing acceptable fingerprints for use by SSA.  Regardless of the
           method used to fingerprint employees (electronic capture or ink) the only acceptable fingerprint card is the FD-258.


         • Optional Form 306, Declaration for Federal Employment
                     http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/of.asp

         • Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)  Authorization Form
                    http://www.opm.gov/extra/investigate/fin-1998/fin9802.asp


         • If the employee is not a U.S. Citizen, the employee must provide SSA with a legible photocopy of his or her work authorization permit
           and social security card.


        In addition to the forms above, every employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit
        ONE of the following forms:

         • Standard Form (SF) 85 for risk level 1 (Public Trust, Low Risk/Non-Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 85P for sensitivity levels 5 or 6  (Public Trust, Moderate or High Risk),  http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 86 for sensitivity levels 2,  3 or  4  (National Security, Non-Critical, Critical –Sensitive or Special
           Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp

      The risk designation associated with the work that the particular individual will be performing will determine which form the individual
      must complete.  For this contract, the following risk designation(s) apply:




      Labor Category                                                          Risk Designation
      To be Determined at Time of Award


   f. Forms Completion 
      The contractor must ensure that all forms are fully completed and signed prior to submission to SSA.  The contractor must ensure that the
      fingerprint charts and all forms are printed legibly or typed in black ink and all signatures are in black ink.  The contractor must also
      ensure there are no “breaks” in residences or employment.  SSA requires complete addresses, including zip codes and phone numbers.


   g. Forms Submission
      The contractor shall submit a cover sheet, including the contract number, name, and social security number of all contract employees for
      whom they are requesting a suitability determination, along with completed forms and one FD-258 fingerprint chart to:


      SSA
      CPSPM Security and Suitability Team
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


      Simultaneously, the contractor must submit a copy of the cover sheet to the COTR.


      The contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to the date work is to begin.  For new contract employees who will need
      access to an SSA facility, site, information, or system, the contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to beginning work
      under the contract.


   h. Preliminary Suitability Determination
      A Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint check will be used as part of the basis for making a preliminary suitability determination.
      If SSA makes a favorable preliminary suitability determination, the individual may perform under the contract pending SSA’s final
      suitability determination.  CPSPM will notify contractors, with carbon copy (cc) notifications sent to both the COTR and CO, of the results
      of these determinations.


      SSA requires each contractor employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information to present two forms of
      identification after the contractor employee receives notification of a preliminary suitability determination but prior to beginning work
      under the contract.  In order for SSA to continue the background investigation process and enroll the contractor employee in the PIV
      credentialing process, at least one of the forms of identification must be a Government-issued photo ID (please see Employment Eligibility
      Verification, I-9, for acceptable forms of ID).


   i. Final Suitability Determination
      Final suitability determinations are made in approximately 45-90 business days after submittal of the completed forms to CPSPM.  If CPSPM
      determines that any employee is unsuitable, the COTR, CO, and contractor will be notified and SSA will revoke the employee’s physical and
      logical access.  The contractor must confirm receipt of the revocation within one business day.


      A contractor is not entitled to an equitable adjustment of the contract as a result of SSA making an unfavorable suitability determination
      on contractor employees.  Additionally, if SSA determines that the number or percentage of unfavorable determinations make successful
      contract performance unlikely, SSA may terminate the contract for cause or default.

   j. Exceptions
      The COTR may request an exception to the normal background investigation process for emergency situations when access to a facility or site
      is needed, but where access to information systems or programmatic information is not required.  This request must be directed to CPSPM.
      COTRs may request an exception by sending an email to dchr.ope.hspd12appeals@ssa.gov.  If CPSPM grants temporary access, that temporary
      access will apply only for the period specified by CPSPM and only for the specific contract employee(s) identified by the COTR.  CPSPM
      expects that it will rarely grant exceptions.

   k. Contractor Notification to Government
      The contractor shall notify the COTR (who will notify CPSPM and the CO) within one business day if an employee is arrested or charged with
      a crime during the term of this contract, or if there is any other change in the employee’s status (e.g., the employee leaves the company;
      the employee no longer works under the contract; the employee’s alien status changes) that could impact the suitability determination for
      that individual.  The contractor must provide in that notification as much detail as possible, including, but not limited to:  employee
      name(s), contract number, the type of charge(s), if applicable, the court date, and, if available, the disposition of the charge(s).

   l. Government Control
      The Government has full control over and may grant, deny, or withhold access to a facility, site, system, or information and may require
      the COTR and contractor to remove personnel from performing under the contract for reasons related to conduct even after the individual has
      been found suitable to work on the contract (see paragraph n., below).

   m. Appeals Process for Unsuitable Determinations
      The contractor must notify the employee of any unsuitable determinations as soon as possible after receipt of such a determination.  If the
      employee would like clarification or wish to appeal an unsuitable determination, his/her request must be in writing and submitted within 30
      days of the date of the unsuitable determination.  The request can be emailed to SSA at
      dchr.ope.hspd 12 appeals@ssa.gov, or mailed to:

      Social Security Administration
      Attn:  CPSPM Suitability Program Officer
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


   n. Removal From Duty

      SSA may request that the contractor immediately remove any contractor employee(s) from working under the contract based on conduct that
      occurs after a pre-screening approval or favorable suitability determination.  The contractor must comply with these requests.  The
      Government's determination may be made based on, but not limited to, incidents involving the misconduct or delinquency as set forth below:



       i. Violation of the Rules and Regulations Governing Public Buildings and Grounds, 41 Code of Federal Regulations 101-20.3.  This includes
          any local badging requirements.

      ii. Neglect of duty, including sleeping while on duty, unreasonable delays or failure to carry out assigned tasks; conducting personal
          affairs while on duty; and refusing to cooperate in upholding the integrity of SSA's security program.

     iii. Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction of any official documents or records, or concealment of
          material facts by willful omissions from official documents or records.

      iv. Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation by words or actions, or fighting.  Also,
          participating in disruptive activities, which interfere with the normal and efficient operations of the Government.

       v. Theft, vandalism, or any other criminal actions.

      vi. Selling, consuming, possession of, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or substances which produce similar effects.

     vii. Improper use of official authority or credentials.

    viii. Unauthorized use of communications equipment or Government property.

      ix. Misuse of weapon(s) or tools used in the performance of this contract.

       x. Unauthorized access to areas not required for the performance of the contract.

      xi. Unauthorized access to employees' personal property.

     xii. Violation of security procedures or regulations.

    xiii. Prior determination by SSA or other Federal agency that a contractor's employee was unsuitable.

     xiv. Unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, agency programmatic or sensitive information, or IRS Tax Return information.

      xv. Unauthorized access to an agency Automated Information System.

     xvi. Unauthorized access of information for personal gain (including, but not limited to, monetary gain), or with malicious intent.

    xvii. Not providing for the confidentiality of and protection from disclosure of information entrusted to them.  Contractor personnel are
          considered the same as Federal employees for the purposes of applying certain provisions of:

           The Privacy Act of 1974;


           The Tax Reform Act of 1976 and the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997;


           SSA regulation 1;


           The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986; and
           Section 1106 of the Social Security Act.

AS 0402- Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and Agency Privacy Management (OCT 2008)

1. Definitions

The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:

“Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).

“OAG” means the Office of Acquisition and Grants at SSA.

2. Agency Responsibility related to FISMA Training Requirements

The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) (Title III, Pub. L. No. 107-347) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
policy (through Circular A-130, Appendix III) require that all Agency employees, as well as contractor and subcontractor employees working under
Agency service contacts, receive periodic training in computer security awareness and accepted computer security practice of all employees,
including contractors.  This includes training for contractor personnel who do not have access to electronic information systems. The training
level is tailored to the risk and magnitude of harm related to the required activities.

SSA’s Security Awareness bulletin adequately covers the required IT security and privacy awareness training for this contract.  The bulletin is
located on OAG’s internet site (see information in Paragraph 3 below).  This training does not preclude any additional training specified
elsewhere in this contract.

3. Contractor Responsibilities related to FISMA Training Requirements

     a. Following contract award, the contractor shall ensure that all contractor employees performing under this contract have signed the
        security bulletin entitled “SSA Security Awareness: Contractor Personnel Security Certification.”  This requirement also applies to
        contractor employees added to the contract after contract performance has commenced.  A copy of this form is located on OAG's Internet
        website.
     b. The contractor must receive signed copies of the bulletin from each employee working under the contract within 45 days following
        contract award, or within 45 days after a contractor employee begins working under the contract.
     c. The contractor shall send an email to security.awareness.training@ssa.gov, with a copy to the contracting officer, within 60 days
        following contract award and anytime a new contractor employee is added to perform work under the contract.  The contractor will include
        in the email the number of employees who have signed the security awareness bulletin.
     d. The contractor shall retain copies of these signed bulletins for potential future SSA audits for a period of three years after final
        payment (per FAR 4.703).
     e. For each successive year the contract is in operation, the contractor shall repeat the processes described in items 3. a. – d., above,
        on an annual basis.  The contractor must submit the information in 3.c, above, within 60 days of: (i) the date the option was renewed,
        or (ii) the anniversary of the contract award date.

4. Applicability of this Clause to contractor/subcontractor employees

   The contractor is required to include a clause substantially the same as this in all subcontracts awarded for technical or support services
   under the prime contract.  This clause shall require the subcontractors to report the information listed in Paragraph 3 of this clause to the
   contractor and the contractor will be responsible for reporting all applicable numbers to SSA.  The subcontractor shall be responsible for
   maintaining its signed forms as detailed in Paragraph 3.d.

                                                                 (End of Clause)

AS 2401 - Protection of Confidential Information (DEC 2008)

(a)  Confidential information, as used in this clause, means information or data, or copies or extracts of information or data, that is:  (1)
provided by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to the contractor for, or otherwise obtained by the contractor in, the performance of this
contract; and (2) of a personal nature about an individual, such as name, home address, and social security number, or proprietary information
or data submitted by or pertaining to an institution or organization, such as employee pay scales and indirect cost rates.

(b)  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information or categories
of information that the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which are confidential.
Similarly, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during
the performance of the contract.  The confidential information will be used only for purposes delineated in the contract; any other use of the
confidential information will require the Contracting Officer’s express written authorization.  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor will
settle any disagreements regarding the identification pursuant to the "Disputes" clause.

(c)  The Contractor shall restrict access to all confidential information to the minimum number of employees and officials who need it to
perform the contract.  Employees and officials who need access to confidential information for performance of the contract will be determined in
conference between SSA's Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative, and the responsible Contractor official.  Upon
request, the Contractor will provide SSA with a list of “authorized personnel,” that is, all persons who have or will have access to
confidential information covered by this clause.

(d)  The Contractor shall process all confidential information under the immediate supervision and control of authorized personnel in a manner
that will:  protect the confidentiality of the records; prevent the unauthorized use of confidential information; and prevent access to the
records by unauthorized persons.

(e)  The Contractor shall inform all authorized personnel with access to confidential information of the confidential nature of the information
and the administrative, technical and physical safeguards required to protect the information from improper disclosure.  All confidential
information shall, at all times, be stored in an area that is physically safe from unauthorized access.  See paragraph (f) below regarding the
minimum standards which the safeguards must meet.

(f)   Whenever the Contractor is storing, viewing, transmitting, or otherwise handling confidential information, the Contractor shall comply
with the applicable standards for security controls that are established in the Federal Information Security and Management Act (FISMA).  (These
standards include those set by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) via the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)
publications and NIST Special Publications, particularly FIPS 199, FIPS 200, and NIST Special Publications - 800 series.)

(g)  If the Contractor, in the performance of the contract, uses any information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and/or
section 1106 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1306, the Contractor must follow the rules and procedures governing proper use and disclosure
set forth in the Privacy Act, section 1106 of the Social Security Act, and the Commissioner's regulations at 20 C.F.R. Part 401 with respect to
that information.

For knowingly disclosing information in violation of the Privacy Act, the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal
penalties as set forth in 5 U.S.C. Section 552(i)(1) to the same extent as employees of SSA.  For knowingly disclosing confidential information
as described in section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306), the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal
penalties as set forth in that provision.

(h)  The Contractor shall assure that each Contractor employee with access to confidential information is made aware of the prescribed rules of
conduct, and the criminal penalties for violations of the Privacy Act and/or the Social Security Act.

(i)  Whenever the Contractor is uncertain how to handle properly any material under the contract, the Contractor must obtain written
instructions from the Contracting Officer addressing this question.  If the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act and/or section
1106 of the Social Security Act or is otherwise confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor must obtain a
written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication.  Contracting Officer
instructions and determinations will reflect the result of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

(j)   Performance of this contract may involve access to tax return information as defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 6103(b) of the Internal Revenue
Code (IRC).  All such information shall be confidential and may not be disclosed without the written permission of the SSA Contracting Officer.
For willfully disclosing confidential tax return information in violation of the IRC, the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to
the criminal penalties set forth in 26 U.S.C. Section 7213.

(k)  The Government reserves the right to conduct on-site visits to review the Contractor's documentation and in-house procedures for protection
of and security arrangements for confidential information and adherence to the terms of this clause.

(l)  The Contractor must include this clause in all resulting subcontracts whenever there is any indication that the subcontractor(s), engaged
by the contractor, and their employees or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees might have access to SSA's confidential information.

(m)  The Contractor must assure that its subcontractor(s) and their employees or any successor subcontractor(s) and their employees with access
to SSA confidential information are made aware of the prescribed rules of conduct.  For knowingly disclosing SSA's confidential information, any
subcontractor(s) and their employees or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees may be subject to criminal penalties as described in
section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306) and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(End of clause).

AS 2402 – Protecting and Reporting the Loss of Personally Identifiable Information:  Responsibilities Concerning Individual Employees (DEC 2008)



1. Definitions

      The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:

      “Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).

      “Employee(s)” means an individual(s) employed, including, for the purposes of this clause, management officials, by either the Contractor
or subcontractor that are working under this contract.


      “Handling PII” means having access, either currently or in the future, to personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in this
clause.


      “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” means that, while the Contractor/employee is in possession of PII, the PII has become
physically missing (e.g., it has been stolen) or has been otherwise breached so that persons other than authorized users, and for other than an
authorized purpose, have access or potential access to the PII, regardless of the form (e.g., electronic or physical) in which it was stored.
Indications of lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII include missing equipment (e.g., laptops and removable storage devices such as
USB flash or “thumb” drives, CDs, DVDs, etc.) and/or paper documents potentially containing PII, as well as actions where PII was emailed in
violation of the terms contained in Section 2.(d), Emailing PII, below.


      “Personally Identifiable Information” (PII):  SSA follows the definition of PII provided by the Office of Management and Budget in OMB
Memorandum OMB M-07-16:  “The term ‘personally identifiable information’ refers to any information which can be used to distinguish or trace an
individual's identity, such as their name, Social Security number, biometric records, etc. alone, or when combined with other personal or
identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.”
Other examples of PII may include, but are not limited to:  Social Security benefit data, official State or government issued driver's license
or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number, home address, and
medical information.  Within this clause, “PII” shall specifically mean PII as defined above which:  (1) SSA has a primary responsibility for
and/or interest in protecting; and (2) is made available or becomes accessible to the Contractor and/or any subcontractor, including their
respective employees, as a result of performing under this contract (e.g., under the contract, SSA directly furnishes PII to the
Contractor/subcontractor, or the Contractor/subcontractor, in order to perform its duties under the contract, collects PII from outside sources,
such as in a public survey).


      “Secure Area” or “Secure Duty Station” means, for the purpose of this clause, either of the following, unless SSA expressly states
otherwise on a case-by-case basis:  (1) an employee’s official place of work that is in the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s established business
office in a commercial setting, OR (2) a location within SSA or other Federal- or State-controlled premises.  A person’s private home, even if
it is used regularly as a “home office” (including that of a Contractor or subcontractor management official), shall not be considered a secure
area or duty station.


2.  Employee Responsibility in Safeguarding PII

      The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and follow its own policy and procedures to protect PII, including those for reporting lost or
compromised, or potentially lost or compromised, PII (see Section 4. (a), below).  The Contractor shall inform its employees handling PII of
their individual responsibility to safeguard it.  In addition, the Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to:
(1) educate employees on the proper procedures designed to protect PII, as described below and as otherwise approved by the Agency; and (2)
enforce their compliance with the policy and procedures prescribed as follows:

      (a)  General.  Employees shall properly safeguard PII from loss, theft, or inadvertent disclosure.  Employees are responsible for
safeguarding this information at all times, regardless of whether or not the employee is at his or her regular duty station.   Examples of
proper safeguarding include, but are not limited to:  maintaining the confidentiality of each employee’s individual password (by not sharing the
password with any other individual or entity and not writing it down); verifying the identity of individuals before disclosing information to
them; preventing others in the area from viewing PII on one's computer screen; consistently locking or logging off one's workstation when one is
away; and ensuring that PII is appropriately returned or, upon receiving SSA’s approval, destroyed when no longer needed.

      (b)  Transporting PII Outside a Secure Area/Secure Duty Station.  Note:  The term “transporting” used here does not include shipping by a
common or contract carrier, as defined in FAR 47.001, or by the U.S. Post Office.  [Contracting Officer—Insert the following sentence if
applicable:  Terms and conditions regarding shipping are found ______________<indicate location within contract>.]

      (1) Employees shall make every reasonable effort to safeguard equipment, files, or documents containing PII when transporting information
from a secure area/secure duty station.  Employees must ensure that the laptops and other electronic devices/media being used to transport PII
are encrypted and password protected.  The Contractor shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that the encryption and password protection
are in accordance with any SSA-prescribed standards or policies which shall be communicated separately from this clause.  [Contracting
Officer—Insert a reference, if available, to where these standards or policies can be found.]  Employees must use reasonable protection measures
when transporting PII, e.g., storing files in a locked briefcase, not leaving files and/or equipment in plain view.

      (2)  Employees transporting PII, including transporting PII duplications, such as electronic copies and photocopies, from their secure duty
station or an otherwise secured area to an unsecured area shall obtain prior approval in accordance with the Contractor’s established policy.
The Contractor shall provide employees with contact information and instructions based on the Contractor’s security/PII loss incident policy and
procedures. (NOTE:  Agency-prescribed contact information and instructions for reporting lost or possibly lost PII are discussed in Section 3.
below.)
      (3)  Tracking files.
      Unless the PII is being transported for disposal pursuant to the contract, (see (c) below), the Contractor shall, within reason, take
appropriate and necessary action to ensure that the file(s) or document(s) being physically transported or transmitted electronically outside
the secure area/secure duty station are tracked through a log:  they must be logged out prior to transport as well as logged back in upon
return.  The Contractor can establish any mechanism for tracking as long as the process, at a minimum, provides for the following information to
be logged:
            • first and last name of the employee taking/returning the material;
            • the name of the file or document containing PII that he/she intends to transport from the office;
            • all the forms or media in which the PII was transported (e.g., electronic, such as laptop, thumb drive, CD—be as specific as
              possible; paper, such as paper file folders or printouts);
            • the reason he/she intends to transport the file or document containing PII;
            • the date he/she transported the file or document containing PII from the secure duty station; and
            • the date he/she returned the file or document containing PII to the secure duty station.
      Materials must be returned or documented as destroyed within 90 days of removal from the office or have Contractor supervisory approval for
being held longer.


      The log must be maintained in a secure manner.  Upon request by the Agency, the Contractor shall provide the information from the log in a
format (e.g., electronic or paper) that can be readily accessed by the Agency.


       (c)  Employee Disposal of PII.  The marked statement below applies to this contract:  [Contracting Officer:  Mark the appropriate
statement below.]


      [    ]  This contract entails employee disposal of PII.  Employees shall follow the procedures described in [Contracting Officer:   Fill in
reference to appropriate section, paragraph, article, etc., of the contract as applicable.  Page numbers are optional.]


       [ X  ]  This contract does not entail employee disposal of PII.  The Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary
action to ensure that the procedures detailed in (3) above pertaining to the logging of PII that is transported outside a secure area/from their
secure duty station are followed.

      (d) Emailing PII.  The Contractor’s corporate or organizational email system is deemed not to be secure.  Therefore, the Contractor shall
put policies and procedures in place to ensure that its employees email PII using only the following procedures in (1)-(2), below:


      (1)  Sending from an SSA email address.  If employees have been given access to the SSA email system, they may use it to send email
messages containing PII in the body or in an unencrypted attachment but only to other SSA email addresses (which contain the “name @ssa.gov”
format) or to email addresses belonging to an SSA-certified email system. Email directed to any other address(es) may contain PII only if the
PII is entirely contained in an encrypted attachment.


(2)  Sending from a non-SSA email system.  If employees are using the Contractor’s own or any other non-SSA email system (e.g., Yahoo!, Gmail),
they may send email messages transmitting PII only if the PII is entirely contained in an encrypted attachment; none of the PII may be in the
body of the email itself or in an unencrypted attachment.  When emailing from such systems, this procedure applies when emailing PII to any
email address, including but not limited to, an SSA email system address.  Unless specifically noted otherwise, the Contractor and its employees
are expected to conduct business operations under this contract using the Contractor’s own email system, i.e., in accordance with the foregoing
rules for transmitting PII.

3.  Agency-Prescribed Procedures for Reporting Lost, Compromised, or Potentially Compromised PII.

      “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” is defined in Section 1., above.  The reporting requirement established in this section
is for reporting all incidents involving PII, with no distinction between suspected and confirmed breaches.

      SSA has its own reporting requirements for PII that is lost, compromised, or potentially compromised.  The purpose of this section is to
ensure that these requirements are met and that incident information is shared appropriately.

      (a)  Contractor Responsibility.   In addition to establishing and implementing its own internal procedures referenced in Section 2., above,
the Contractor is responsible for taking reasonable actions to implement Agency-prescribed procedures described in (c) below for reporting lost,
compromised, or potentially compromised PII.  These include educating employees handling PII about these procedures and otherwise taking
appropriate and necessary steps to enforce their compliance in carrying them out.


      (b)  Potential Need for Immediate, Direct Reporting by the Employee.  SSA recognizes that Contractor employees will likely make the initial
discovery of a PII security breach.  When an employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost or compromised, he/she is required to
follow the Contractor’s established security/PII loss incident reporting process (see Section 4. (a), below).  The Contractor’s reporting
process, along with SSA’s (see Section 3. (c) below), shall require the Contractor, and not necessarily the employee, in such circumstances to
notify SSA of the incident.  However, the Contractor shall inform each employee handling or potentially handling PII that he/she must be
prepared to directly notify outside authorities immediately as described in (c)(4) below, if, shortly following the incident or discovery of the
incident, he/she finds it evident that neither an appropriate Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be reached.   The Contractor should
emphasize to the employee that timeliness in reporting the incident is critical.


      (c)  Procedures.


      (1)  When an employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost, compromised, or potentially compromised (see 1. Definitions,
above), the Contractor, in accordance with its incident reporting process, shall provide immediate notification of the incident to the primary
SSA contact.  If the primary SSA contact is not readily available, the Contractor shall immediately notify one of two SSA alternates, if names
of alternates have been provided.  (**See Attachment A for the identity of the designated primary and alternate SSA contacts.**)  The Contractor
shall act to ensure that each employee, prior to commencing work on the contract, has been given information as to who the primary and alternate
SSA contacts are and how to contact them.  In addition, the Contractor shall act to ensure that each employee promptly receives any updates on
such information as they are made available.   Whenever the employee removes PII from a secure area/secure duty station, he/she must comply with
the Contractor's security policies, including having on hand the current contact information for the primary SSA contact and the two alternates.


      (2)  The Contractor shall provide the primary SSA contact or the alternate, as applicable, updates on the status of the reported PII loss
or compromise as they become available but shall not delay the initial report.


      (3)  The Contractor shall provide complete and accurate information about the details of the possible PII loss to assist the SSA
contact/alternate, including the following information:

           I.     Contact information;
           II.    A description of the loss, compromise, or potential compromise (i.e., nature of loss/compromise/potential compromise, scope,
            number of files or records, type of equipment or media, etc.) including the approximate time and location of the loss;
           III.   A description of safeguards used, where applicable (e.g., locked briefcase, redacted personal information, password protection,
            encryption, etc.);
           IV.    An identification of SSA components (organizational divisions or subdivisions) contacted, involved, or affected;
           V.     Whether the Contractor or its employee has contacted or been contacted by any external organizations (i.e., other agencies, law
            enforcement, press, etc.);
           VI.    Whether the Contractor or its employee has filed any other reports (i.e., Federal Protective Service, local police, and SSA
            reports); and
           VII.  Any other pertinent information

      The Contractor shall use the worksheet (or a copy thereof) following this clause to quickly gather and organize information about the
incident.


      (4)  There may be rare instances outside of business hours when the Contractor is unable to reach either the primary SSA contact or any of
the alternates immediately.  In such a situation, the Contractor shall immediately call SSA’s Network Customer Service Center (NCSC) at 410-965-
7777 or toll free at 1-888-772-6111 to file the initial report directly, providing the information in (c)(3) above and completing the attached
worksheet to the best of its ability.  Overall, during this time, the Contractor shall cooperate as necessary with the NCSC or any of the other
external organizations described in (c)(3) above.

      The Contractor shall document the call with the CAPRS (Change, Asset, and Problem Reporting System) number which the NCSC will assign.
The Contractor shall provide the CAPRS number to the primary SSA manager, or, if unavailable, one of the alternates to this manager as described
above.

      If an employee initially detects the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII and finds it evident that neither an appropriate
Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be promptly reached, the employee shall undertake the foregoing actions prescribed to the Contractor in
this part (i.e., immediately call the NCSC, document the CAPRS number assigned to the call, etc.).  (Reference Section 3.(b) above.)


      (5)  The Contractor and its employee(s) shall limit disclosure of the information and details about an incident to only those with a need
to know.  The security/PII loss incident reporting process will ensure that SSA’s reporting requirements are met and that security/PII loss
incident information is only shared as appropriate.

4.  Additional Contractor Responsibilities When There Is a Loss of PII.

      (a)  The Contractor shall have a formal security/PII incident reporting process in place that outlines appropriate roles and
responsibilities, as well as the steps that must be taken, in the event of a security/PII loss incident.  The plan shall designate who within
the Contractor’s organization has responsibility for reporting the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII to SSA.


      (b)  In the event of a security/PII loss incident, the Contractor shall take immediate steps to address consequential security issues that
have been identified, including steps to minimize further security risks to those individuals whose personal information was lost, compromised,
or potentially compromised.


      (c)  The Contractor shall confer with SSA personnel in reviewing the actions the Contractor has taken and plans to take in dealing with the
incident.


      (d)  The Contractor shall bear the responsibility and any cost for any data breach and/or remediation actions that might arise from the
security/PII loss incident.   If SSA determines that the risk of harm requires notification of affected individual persons of the security
breach and/or other remedies, the Contractor shall carry out these remedies without cost to SSA.

5.  Applicability of this Clause to Subcontractors/Subcontractor Employees

         a)  The Contractor shall include this clause in all resulting subcontracts whenever there is any indication that the subcontractor and
            their employees, or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, will or might have access to PII.


         b) The Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to assure SSA that its subcontractor(s) and their
            employees, or any successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, with access to PII know the rules of conduct in protecting and
            reporting the loss or suspected loss of PII as prescribed in this clause, such as those regarding the emailing of PII as stated in
            Section 2.(d) above.

      (c)  Notification of Subcontractor Handling of PII.  If the Contractor engages a subcontractor under this contract whose employee(s) will
actually or potentially be given or have access to PII, the Contractor shall do the following:  (1) Notify in advance both the SSA  COTR and the
Contracting Officer of this arrangement, providing the subcontractor name(s) and address(es) and, upon request, a description of the nature of
the PII to which the employee(s) will actually or potentially be given/have access (e.g., phone numbers, Social Security numbers); and


      (2)  Provide the SSA COTR the names of the subcontractor employee(s) who will actually or potentially be assigned and/or have access to the
PII.  The Contractor may satisfy this requirement when submitting the name(s) of the subcontractor employee(s) to the SSA COTR for the requisite
security background check described in Section 6., below.

6.  Contractor/Subcontractor Background Checks – Security & Suitability Requirements Clause

      For each Contractor and subcontractor employee handling PII, the Contractor shall fulfill the requirements of the Security & Suitability
Requirements Clause, found elsewhere in this contract, to ensure that any such individual has the appropriate background checks.


AS 3201 Invoice Submission and Payment Related Information (MAR 2009)

You may submit your invoice, electronically via email, by regular mail, or by hand carrying it to the Office of Finance at the addresses below.
Your invoice must include all of the elements of a proper invoice as defined in the invoice or payment clause used in this award as well as any
other information required below or in the contract.

SENDING THE INVOICE ELECTRONICALLY:

Submit your invoice either as an attachment to an email message, or within the message itself, to:   OFPO.OF.DAP.INVOICES@ssa.gov.

FOR INVOICES NOT SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY:

Submit an original and three (3) copies of the invoice to:

If sent by mail:

Social Security Administration
Office of Finance
Post Office Box 47
Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047

If Hand Carried:

Social Security Administration
Office of Finance
Customer Service Help Desk
2-B-4 East Low Rise Building
6401 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047

The telephone number of the customer service help desk is (410) 965-0607.

TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER  (TIN) AND DUN&BRADSTREET NUMBER (DUNS):

In order to assist the government in making timely payments, please include your TIN, your DUNS#, and the Order Number on each invoice.

SUBMISSION OF ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (EFT) INFORMATION AND REMITTANCE INFORMATION:

The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.
In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the CCR database.

Remittance information associated with EFT payments is now available via the Internet Payment Platform (IPP) on the Department of Treasury’s
Internet site at http://www.ipp.gov.  The IPP site provides an explanation of how the system works, security and access information, a user
demonstration, and registration information.  There is no charge to use the IPP system.

You may also direct payment inquiries to SSA's Office of Finance by:

 ■ Using its Financial Interactive Voice Response System (FIVR).  FIVR is an automated self-service telephone system available 24 hours a day
   that allows direct electronic access to administrative payment information using the telephone keypad.  You can access FIVR by calling (410)
   965-0607.  The services available through FIVR will be available through a Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) Line at 410-597-1395.
   Customer Service Representatives will be available to answer vendor payment inquiries Monday - Friday, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Eastern
   Time.

 ■ By sending an email to payment.inquiries@ssa.gov, or visiting its internet site at http://www.socialsecurity.gov/vendor/contact.htm.  You can
   also access the IPP system through a link on this site.

Billing Instructions to Financial Institutions

Financial institutions are required to furnish certain financial information by the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFPA) of 1978, Public Law 95-
630 (12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.) and by the Federal Reserve Board's implementing regulation, Reimbursement to Financial Institutions for Assembling
or Providing Financial Records (Regulation S, 12 CFR Part 219) as needed in the determination of program benefits.

Financial institutions are required by the Act and Regulation S to identify charges such as search (SRCH), reproduction (REPRO), and
transportation (TRANS) in accordance with these instructions.

If a financial institution chooses to request reimbursement, the Contractor will provide billing instructions, including the type of charge and
corresponding limits established by Regulation S.  SSA reserves the right to review and approve the Contractor's billing instructions to the
FIs.  SSA authorizes the Contractor to reimburse an FI provided the financial institution submits an itemized bill or invoice showing specific
details concerning the search and processing, reproduction, and transportation costs. The FI shall submit a proper invoice as stated in Section
6(a)(vi), ‘FI Reimbursement.’  Reimbursement rates are subject to change by the Federal Reserve Board and are published in the Federal Register.


Payment will be made only for costs that are reasonably necessary and directly incurred in providing SSA with the information requested. SSA
will not pay for bank errors or for copies of internal records accumulated by a financial institution incidental to providing the requested
information.

If a request for financial information is withdrawn or cancelled by SSA, the FI is authorized to bill the Contractor for any costs incurred
prior to receipt of the cancellation notice from SSA. Such costs should be indicated as “cancellation costs” on the invoice.


                                                                      [pic]


                                                       Social Security Administration (SSA)
                                                                  SSA-RFP-10-1020




                                                  Section D- Documents, Exhibits, or Attachments
                                                                Table of Contents
Section 508 Standards  3
Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information     9
Small Business Plan Model    13
Past Performance Questionnaire    18
SSA Security Guidelines      29
Authorization for Financial Institution Records Document 42
Web Standards References     43

Section D- Documents, Exhibits or Attachments

1. Section 508 Standards


Applicability of SSA’s Accessibility Requirements to EIT Solutions


Applicability of SSA’s Accessibility Requirements to EIT Solutions


The Social Security Administration considers accessibility to Electronic and Information Technology, hereafter referred to as “EIT”, a priority
for all employees and external customers, including people with disabilities.  SSA requires that EIT procured, developed, maintained, or
utilized meets the accessibility requirements under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 794d and additional
agency specific accessibility requirements, hereafter referred to in total as “SSA’s Accessibility Requirements”.  This is to ensure the
accessibility of its programs and activities to people with disabilities, specifically its obligation to acquire accessible EIT.  The EIT
deliverables covered under SSA’s Accessibility Requirements include:

    • Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystems of equipment used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data or information.
      The term EIT includes, but is not limited to, software applications and operating systems, telecommunications products, worldwide websites,
      video, multimedia, information kiosks, office equipment (e.g., desktops, copiers, fax machines, printers, and notebook computers), and
      electronic content.

    • Any EIT deliverables developed, procured, maintained, or used by agencies directly or used by a contractor under a contract with an agency
      that requires the use of such product, or requires the use to a significant extent, of such product in the performance of a service or the
      furnishing of a product.

    • The final delivered EIT products provided through custom development, installation, configuration, integration, and maintenance services.
The contractor’s response may include a single EIT product or service, or be comprised of multiple EIT products and services bundled together
(i.e. solution).   Within this document, the term “EIT solution” shall refer to both.   All technical requirements and functional performance
criteria that are associated with the checked sections below must be addressed. At a minimum, the contractor’s EIT solution shall conform to the
following checked requirements:













Applicable Section 508 Standards[1]

|Applicable?          |SSA Specific Accessibility Requirements                                                                   |
|X                    |1.1 Software Compatibility with Assistive Technology                                                      |
|X                    |1.2 Documentation in Accessible Formats                                                                   |
|                     |1.3 Video and sound card compatibility with assistive technology                                          |
|                     |1.4   Hardware Devices that Contain Digital Windows                                                       |
|X                    |1.5 Technical Support and Assistance (Hotline)\                                                           |
|  X                  |1.6 Training                                                                                              |
|                     |1.7   Installation, Configuration & Integration Services                                                  |
|X                    |1.8 Maintenance and replacements                                                                          |
|                     |1.9 Labor Hours                                                                                           |
|X                    |1.10 Equivalent Facilitation                                                                              |



Applicable additional agency specific accessibility requirements

|Applicable?          |Section 508 Standards                                                                                    |
|X                    |1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems                                                      |
|X                    |1194.22 Web Information and Applications                                                                 |
|                     |1194.23 Telecommunications                                                                               |
|                     |1194.24 Video and Multimedia                                                                             |
|                     |1194.25 Self-contained, Closed Products                                                                  |
|                     |1194.26 Desktop and Personal Computers                                                                   |
|X                    |1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria                                                                  |
|X                    |1194.41 Information and Documentation Support                                                            |




Definitions of additional agency specific accessibility requirements

|1.1         |Software Compatibility with Assistive Technology                                                                       |
|            |All IT software deliverables provided as part of the contractor’s solution must be compatible with:                    |
|            |JAWS screen reading software (Version 9.0);                                                                            |
|            |MAGIC screen magnification software (Version 11); and                                                                  |
|            |Dragon Naturally Speaking Professional voice recognition software (Version 9.5).                                       |
|            |“Software” includes, but is not limited to, any of the following which contain a user interface:  websites, interactive|
|            |web based applications, client server applications, desktop applications, mainframe applications, applets, middleware, |
|            |and drivers.                                                                                                           |
|            |“Compatible” means that the software shall fully conform to the applicable Section 508 standards when used with the    |
|            |assistive technology referenced above.  Alternative assistive technologies embedded within the software to achieve     |
|            |accessibility (i.e. screen reader, screen magnifier, voice recognition)                                                |
|            |shall not be accepted as a substitute for compatibility with SSA’s assistive technology environment.                   |
|            |If the contractor’s solution includes installing the product in the SSA environment, the contractor shall explicitly   |
|            |state that the software shall be installed in a manner that shall not reduce the level of conformance with SSA         |
|            |accessibility requirements that currently exists.                                                                      |
|            |For a complete description on the JAWS and MAGIC software packages, please refer to Freedom Scientific’s web site at   |
|            |www.FreedomScientific.com.  To obtain a 30/60 day version of the JAWS/MAGIC software for development and testing,      |
|            |please send contact information and the SSA procurement number (for verification) to Charles Madsen at:                |
|            |Cmadsen@FreedomScientific.com.                                                                                         |
|            |For a complete description on the Dragon Naturally Speaking software package, please refer to Nuance’s web site at     |
|            |http://www.nuance.com/naturallyspeaking.  To obtain a trial version of the Dragon Naturally Speaking software for      |
|            |development and testing, please send contact information and the SSA procurement number (for verification) to Tom      |
|            |Derrico at: tderrico@nuance.com.                                                                                       |
|1.2         |Documentation in Accessible Formats                                                                                    |
|            |Any form of documentation provided (i.e. training manual, user guides, embedded documents etc.), including any         |
|            |documentation deliverables required in the statement of work, shall be provided in a fully accessible format.          |
|            |The documents shall be provided in one of the following formats:  Text, RTF, Microsoft Word or HTML format , or        |
|            |properly “tagged” PDF,. Properly tagged PDF’s can be verified by using Adobe Acrobat’s Accessibility Checker.          |
|            |Documentation delivered in a manner that is interactive (e.g., table of contents, Index, Search, etc.) shall be        |
|            |keyboard navigable, move focus to selected items (or have a keyboard alternative) and be comparable in keyboard access |
|            |to mouse usage.  All images (especially screenshots and technical diagrams (which are the sole means for conveying     |
|            |instructions) should include alternative text explaining the image so that a person who is blind would understand the  |
|            |screenshot, chart, figure, etc.  Documentation shall include information on the accessibility features of the product. |
|            |If keyboard shortcuts are provided to allow access to program functionality, a list of the keyboard shortcuts shall be |
|            |provided.                                                                                                              |
|            |Documentation that is delivered in a video or multimedia publication shall comply with the Section 508 requirements    |
|            |detailed in 36 CFR part 1194.24 and the functional performance criteria detailed in 36 CFR 1194 Subpart C.   In        |
|            |addition, SSA requires conformance to SSA’s Accessibility Requirements for all video and multi-media deliverables.  SSA|
|            |does not accept text equivalents used to replace speech, and requires captions to be synchronized with speech.         |
|            |                                                                                                                       |
|            |                                                                                                                       |
|1.3         |Video and Sound Card Compatibility with Assistive Technology                                                           |
|            |Video and sound cards purchased separately for, or included with, any desktop or portable computer systems shall be    |
|            |compatible with the following Assistive Technologies:                                                                  |
|            |JAWS screen reading software (Version 9.0);                                                                            |
|            |MAGIC screen magnification software (Version 11); and                                                                  |
|            |Dragon Naturally Speaking Professional voice recognition software (Version 9.5).                                       |
|            |Compatibility shall be determined based on the video/and or sound card’s ability to function with all three assistive  |
|            |technology in a manner that does not degrade either the core functionality of the AT or the performance of the AT.     |
|            |For a listing of video and sound cards that are compatible with the JAWS and MAGIC software packages, please refer to  |
|            |Freedom Scientific’s web site at www.freedomscientific.com.                                                            |
|            |For a listing of video and sound cards that are compatible with Dragon Naturally Speaking Professional, please refer to|
|            |Nuance’s web site at www.nuance.com/naturallyspeaking.                                                                 |
|1.4         |Hardware Devices that Contain Digital Windows                                                                          |
|            |Any hardware device shall provide an audible response for information displayed in a visual only format (i.e. digital  |
|            |message window) either through software or firmware.                                                                   |
|            |Any hardware digital window that has the capability to magnify text shall do so for all screens either through software|
|            |or firmware.                                                                                                           |
|            |Any hardware digital window that has the capability to adjust contrast settings shall provide a range of contrast      |
|            |levels either through software or firmware.                                                                            |
|            |Any hardware digital window that has the capability to be tilted for better viewing angles shall provide a range of    |
|            |settings.                                                                                                              |
|            |If digital windows meet the above requirements through software residing on a computer workstation, the software must  |
|            |be “compatible” with                                                                                                   |
|            |JAWS screen reading software (Version 9.0);                                                                            |
|            |MAGIC screen magnification software (Version 11); and                                                                  |
|            |Dragon Naturally Speaking Professional voice recognition software (Version 9.5).                                       |
|            |                                                                                                                       |
|            |Compatibility shall be determined based on the video/and or sound card’s ability                                       |
|            |to function with all three assistive technology in a manner that does not degrade either the core functionality of the |
|            |AT or the performance of the AT.                                                                                       |
|1.5         |Technical Support and Assistance (Hotline)                                                                             |
|            |Any technical support, help desks, or other support services provided to SSA shall accommodate the communication needs |
|            |of end users with disabilities, and shall be provided in one or both of the following options.  If both options are    |
|            |provided, each must conform to the accessibility requirements.                                                         |
|            |A toll-free telephone number that is accessible to all Government help desk personnel.  This shall include the         |
|            |availability of TTY access for help desk personnel who may require assistance for the hearing-impaired. When this      |
|            |option is provided, it must be available during SSA working hours (i.e. between 6am Eastern and 6pm Pacific time).     |
|            |An internet-based web page that is accessible to all Government help desk personnel.  This web site shall meet all of  |
|            |the requirements of Section 508 1194.22.                                                                               |
|1.6         |Training                                                                                                               |
|            |All training materials provided to SSA must be in an accessible format.  In addition, training materials on the use of |
|            |the accessibility features of a product or service shall be provided.                                                  |
|1.7         |Installation, Configuration & Integration Services                                                                     |
|            |If the contractor provides installation, configuration and integration services for commercial EIT solutions or EIT    |
|            |solutions previously developed for other government entities, the contractor shall not install, configure or integrate |
|            |the EIT solution in a way that reduces the existing EIT solution’s level of conformance with SSA’s accessibility       |
|            |requirements at the time the contract is awarded.                                                                      |
|1.8         |Maintenance & Replacements                                                                                             |
|            |Any updates or replacements to EIT products provided to SSA pursuant to this contract shall be fully accessible with   |
|            |all applicable SSA’s accessibility requirements as described above.  At a minimum, any updates or replacements to any  |
|            |IT deliverables shall not result in a decrease in accessibility from the EIT solution being maintained or replaced.    |
|1.9         |Labor Hours                                                                                                            |
|            |If the anticipated labor hour deliverable is expected to involve tasks that relate to or require the use of E&IT,      |
|            |delivered labor hours shall include knowledge and capabilities necessary to conform to SSA’s Accessibility             |
|            |Requirements.                                                                                                          |
|1.10        |Equivalent Facilitation                                                                                                |
|            |When a deliverable does not directly conform to the SSA Accessibility Requirements, but provides substantially         |
|            |equivalent or greater access by meeting the functional performance criteria in Subpart C of the Section 508 Standards, |
|            |per Section 1194.31, then it is said to have provided Equivalent Facilitation.                                         |
|            |Any approach providing Equivalent Facilitation that serves as a replacement to the Assistive Technologies SSA employs  |
|            |(e.g. an external speech engine) shall NOT be considered as an acceptable approach to Equivalent Facilitation.  For any|
|            |approach meeting Section 508 Standards using Equivalent Facilitation, the contractor shall be held accountable for     |
|            |maintaining and updating the approach.                                                                                 |


   1. Acceptance Criteria

SSA reserves the right to perform testing on a contractor’s EIT solution in order to validate that the contractor has installed, configured or
integrated the EIT solution in a way that does not reduce the level of conformance with SSA’s Accessibility Requirements.

SSA reserves the right to test replacements or maintenance upgrades to ensure this requirement is met throughout the life of the contract.

 1. Worksheet for Reporting the Loss, Compromise, or Potential Compromise of Personally Identifiable Information



Contractor and Subcontractor Employees:  See last page of this attachment for instructions on completing this worksheet.

1. My primary SSA contact for reporting the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII is:  [Contracting Officer:  Fill in the name and
   contact information (phone number(s), address, etc.) of the primary SSA contact.  This should be the COTR]

   The alternates to this primary contact are as follows:


      First Alternate:   [Contracting Officer:  Fill in the name and contact information (phone number(s), address, etc.) of the First Alternate
   SSA contact.  This should be the Alternate COTR.]


      Second Alternate:  [Contracting Officer:  Fill in the name and contact information (phone number(s), address, etc.) of the Second Alternate
   SSA contact.]


2. Information about the individual making the report to SSA’s Network Customer Service Center (NCSC):

|Name:             |                                                                                                  |
|Position:         |                                                                                                  |
|Deputy Commissioner Level Organization:                           |[Contracting Officer: fill in]                    |
|Phone Numbers:                                                                                                       |
|Work:       |                        |Cell:    |                       |Home/Other:          |                       |
|E-mail Address:           |                                                                                          |
|Check one of the following:                                                                                          |
|   Management Official                |   |Security Officer             |   |Non-Management                        |   |



      Additional Information (to be provided when a contractor or subcontractor employee is reporting directly to the NCSC):
        *Contractor/Subcontractor (circle as appropriate):
      **SSA Contract Number (if known):

3. Information about the data that was lost/stolen:

    Describe what was lost or stolen (e.g., case file, MBR (Master Beneficiary Record) data):


    Which element(s) of PII did the data contain?
|Name                                      |            |Bank Account Info                              |            |
|SSN                                       |            |Medical/Health Information                     |            |
|Date of Birth                             |            |Benefit Payment Info                           |            |
|Place of Birth                            |            |Mother’s Maiden Name                           |            |
|Address                                   |            |Other (describe):                                            |


    Estimated volume of records involved:


4. How was the data physically stored, packaged and/or contained?

    Paper   or   Electronic? (circle one):


    If Electronic, what type of device?
|Laptop                 |    |Tablet               |   |Backup Tape             |     |Blackberry                   |    |
|Workstation            |    |Server               |   |CD/DVD                  |     |Blackberry Phone #                |
|Hard Drive             |    |Floppy Disk          |   |USB Drive               |     |                                  |
|Other (describe):                                                                                                       |




    Additional Questions if Electronic:
|                                                                                   |Yes     |No      |Not Sure         |
|a.  Was the device encrypted?                                                      |        |        |                 |
|b.  Was the device password protected?                                             |        |        |                 |
|c.  If a laptop or tablet, was a VPN SmartCard lost?                               |        |        |                 |
|                                                                                                                      |
|Cardholder’s Name:                                                                                                    |
|       Cardholder’s SSA logon PIN:                                                                                    |
|       Hardware Make/Model:                                                                                           |
|       Hardware Serial Number:                                                                                        |


     Additional Questions if Paper:
|                                                                                   |Yes     |No      |Not Sure         |
|a.  Was the information in a locked briefcase?                                     |        |        |                 |
|b.  Was the information in a locked cabinet or drawer?                             |        |        |                 |
|c.  Was the information in a locked vehicle trunk?                                 |        |        |                 |
|d.  Was the information redacted?                                                  |        |        |                 |
|e.  Other circumstances:                                                                                              |


5. If the employee/Contractor/subcontractor who was in possession of the data or to whom the data was assigned is not the person making the
   report to the NCSC (as listed in #1), information about this employee/Contractor/subcontractor:

|Name:             |                                                                                                  |
|Position:         |                                                                                                  |
|Deputy Commissioner Level Organization:                           |[Contracting Officer: fill in]                    |
|Phone Numbers:                                                                                                       |
|Work:       |                        |Cell:    |                       |Home/Other:          |                       |
|E-mail Address:           |                                                                                          |


    Additional Information (to be provided when person who was in possession of the data or assigned to the data is a Contractor/subcontractor
    employee):
        *Contractor/Subcontractor (circle as appropriate):
      **SSA Contract Number (if known):


6. Circumstances of the loss:
      When was it lost/stolen?


    b.     Brief description of how the loss/theft occurred:


    c.     When was it reported to SSA management official (date and time)?








7. Have any other SSA components been contacted?  If so, who? (Include deputy commissioner level, agency level, regional/associate level
   component names)




8. Which reports have been filed? (include FPS, local police, and SSA reports)


    |Report Filed                                   |Yes     |No     |Report Number                                         |
|Federal Protective Service                     |        |       |                                                      |
|Local Police                                   |        |       |                                                      |
|                                                                                                  |Yes       |No      |
|SSA-3114 (Incident Alert) -- Not Applicable for Contractors or  Subcontractors                    |          |        |
|SSA-342 (Report of Survey) -- Not Applicable for Contractors or  Subcontractors                   |          |        |
|Other (describe)                                                                                                      |



INSTRUCTIONS (to the Contractor/Subcontractor Employee):  Worksheet for Reporting Loss or Potential Loss of Personally Identifiable Information


 1. If you are reporting the incident to the primaary SSA contact, only complete Items 3 through 6.  Special notes regarding Item 5:


        • For “Position,” write “Contractor Employee” or “Subcontractor Employee,” as applicable, followed by a hyphen and your job title under
          the contract.


        • With respect to Deputy Commissioner Level Organization, this should be the SSA Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR)’s
          Deputy Commissioner Office and should already be provided on the form.  If it is not (and you do not know this), have your primary or
          alternate contact, as applicable, complete the information.

        • Be sure to provide the additional information regarding your company/organization’s name and, if known, the Agency-assigned contract
          number.


 2. If you are reporting the incident directly to the NCSC, complete all items to the extent possible (note:  Item 4 will be “not applicable”).
    Special notes regarding Item 2:


        • For “Position,” write “Contractor Employee” or “Subcontractor Employee,” as applicable, followed by a hyphen and your job title under
          the contract.


        • With respect to Deputy Commissioner Level Organization, this should be the SSA COTR’s Deputy Commissioner Office and should already be
          provided on the form.  If it is not and you do not know this information, try to identify the name of the main program office which the
          contract is servicing (e.g., Office of Telecommunications and Systems Operations).

        • Be sure to provide the additional information regarding your company/organization’s name and, if known, the Agency-assigned contract
          number.

3. Small Business Plan Model


                                                   SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN OUTLINE *



                                                               Identification Data


Contractor:

Address:

Solicitation or Contract Number:

Item/Service:

Total Amount of Contract (Including Options):

Period of Contract Performance (DAY, MONTH & YEAR):


*The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at paragraph 19.708(b) prescribes the use of the clause at FAR 52.219-9, entitled "Small Business
Subcontracting Plan.”  The following is a suggested model when formulating such a subcontracting plan.  While this model plan has been designed
to be consistent with FAR 52.219-9, other subcontracting plan formats may be acceptable.  However, failure to include the essential information
as exemplified in this model may delay the Government’s evaluation of a bid or offer where the clause is applicable.  Further, the use of this
model is not intended to waive other requirements that may be applicable under FAR 52.219-9. The term "subcontract," as used in this clause,
means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime contractor or
subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for performance of the contract or subcontract.

1.    Type of Plan (Check One)

(     Individual plan (All elements developed specifically for this contract and applicable for the full term of this contract, including
    options).


(     Master plan (All required elements of an individual plan, except goals; all other elements standard; must be approved and renewed
    annually).


(     Commercial plan (Plans/goals covers the offeror’s fiscal year for all commercial items sold by the company.  Negotiated by a lead agency.
    Contractor must provide copy of lead agency approval).

2.    Goals

Goals should be expressed in terms of percentages of total planned subcontracting dollars for use of small business, small disadvantaged
business, women-owned small business, HUBZone small business, veteran-owned small business and service-disabled veteran-owned small business
concerns as subcontractors.

**Effective September 17, 2007, subcontracts awarded to an Alaska Native Corporation (ANC) or Indian tribe, as defined in FAR 19.701, regardless
of its size or Small Business Administration certification status, shall be counted towards the subcontracting goals for small business (SB) and
small disadvantaged business (SDB) concerns.  Therefore, all references in this document to either “small business” or “small disadvantaged”
concerns shall henceforth include ANCs and Indian tribes.  For Items B and C below, if your company and other companies have been designated by
an ANC or Indian tribe to receive SB and SDB credit for a subcontract awarded to the ANC or Indian tribe, report only the portion of the total
amount of the subcontract that has been designated to your company.**

A.    Total dollars (small and large business) planned to be subcontracted $

B.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to small business concerns is
      $                            and       % (percentage of A above).

C.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to small disadvantaged business concerns is $                  and _____  %
    (percentage of A above).

D.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to women-owned small business concerns is $                          and        %
    (percentage of A above).

E.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to HUBZone business concerns is
      $                       and       % (percentage of A above).

F.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to veteran-owned small businesses is
      $                      and        % (percentage of A above).

G.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to Service-Disabled veteran-owned small businesses is $              and        %
    (percentage of A above).

H.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to Alaska Native Corporations and Indian Tribes that have not been certified by the
    SBA as SDB    $                and        % (percentage of A above).

I.    Total dollars and percentage of planned subcontracting to Alaska Native Corporations and Indian Tribes that are not small business $
       and        % (percentage of A above).

3.    Provide a description of the principal types of supplies and/or services to be subcontracted, using the chart below and an indication of
    the types of businesses supplying them (i.e., OTHER THAN SMALL BUSINESSES (OTHER), SMALL BUSINESS, SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS, WOMEN-OWNED
    BUSINESS (WOB), HUBZONE (HZ), VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (VOSB), and SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (SDVOSB)).
    Below the chart provide a list of small business subcontractors:
                                                              (Check all that apply)

|Product/Service          |OTHER         |SMALL         |SDB      |WOMAN           |HUBZONE            |VOSB        |SDVOSB          |
|                         |              |              |         |                |                   |            |                |
|                         |              |              |         |                |                   |            |                |
|                         |              |              |         |                |                   |            |                |
|                         |              |              |         |                |                   |            |                |
|                         |              |              |         |                |                   |            |                |

                                                     (Attach additional sheets if necessary.)

4.    Provide a description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals for small, small disadvantaged, women-owned HUBZone, veteran-
    owned, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns (i.e., explain the method and state the quantitative basis in dollars).

5.    Provide a description of method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes.


6.    Indirect costs (check one) have been         has not been     included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals stated above.

      If indirect costs have been included, explain the method used to determine the proportionate share of such costs to be allocated as
    subcontracts to small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZone, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.

7.    Program Administrator

Give the name and title of the individual employed within the corporate structure who will administer the subcontracting program, and a
description of the duties and responsibilities.

      Name:

      Title:

      Address:

      Telephone:

(Attach additional sheets if necessary for duties and responsibilities.)













8.    Equitable opportunity

Describe efforts the offeror will make to ensure those small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZone, veteran-owned, and service-disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns will have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.

9.    Flow-Down Clause

There should be assurances that the offeror will include the clause under FAR 52.219-8, "Utilization of Small Business Concerns," in all
subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities.  All subcontractors, except small business concerns, that receive subcontracts in
excess of $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction contracts) must adopt and comply with a plan similar to the plan required by FAR 52.219-9,
"Small Business Subcontracting Plan" (see FAR Subpart 19.704).

10.   Reporting and Cooperation

The contractor gives assurance of: (a) cooperation in any studies or surveys that may be required; (b) submission of periodic reports which show
compliance with the subcontracting plan; (c) submission of the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) and the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) in
the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at www.esrs.gov; and (d) subcontractor agreement to submit ISR and SSR in eSRS at
www.esrs.gov.

Reporting Period             Report Due      Report Due Date

October 1st - March 30th          ISR              April 30th
April 1st - September 30th        ISR              October 30th
October 1st - September 30th      SSR              October 30th

11.   Recordkeeping

The following is a recitation of the types of records the contractor will maintain to demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the
requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan.  These records will include, but not be limited to, the following:

A.    Small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZone veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns source lists,
    guides, and other data identifying such vendors;

B.    Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZone, veteran-owned, and
    service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns;

C.    Records on all subcontract solicitations over $100,000 which indicate for each solicitation whether the following types of small
    businesses concerns were solicited:   (1) small; (2) small disadvantaged; (3) women-owned; (4) HUBZone; (5) veteran-owned ; (6) service-
    disabled veteran-owned.  For each of the foregoing, indicate whether the type of business was solicited and, if not, the reason why.   In
    addition, if the award itself was not made to a small business, indicate the reason(s).

D.    Records to support other outreach efforts, e.g., contacts with minority, women-owned and small business trade associations, business
    development organizations, attendance at small, women-owned and minority business procurement conferences and trade fairs;

E.    Records to support: (1) internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through workshops, seminars, training programs, incentive
    awards; and (2) monitoring of activities to evaluate compliance; and,

F.    On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support subcontract award data including the name, address and business size of each
    subcontractor. (This item is not required for commercial plans.)

12.   Certification
This subcontracting plan was prepared and submitted by:

      Signature:


      Typed Name:


      Title:

      Date Prepared:

      Telephone Number:


4. Past Performance Questionnaire

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REFERENCE:

Offeror’s this is a new Past Performance Questionnaire, please re-send  to your references and have it completed to the best of their knowledge.
 When it is completed, have them mail or email it to SSA to arrive no later than XXX.  Responses should sent directly to:


      Social Security Administration
      Office of Acquisition and Grants
      Attention:  Traci Leach
      7111 Security Blvd
      Rear Entrance
      Baltimore, Maryland  21207-5279

Email: traci.leach@ssa.gov

*********************************************************************
Ratings Scale to be used

References please complete the questionnaire below as follows:

For each of the numbered questions, provide an overall rating as well as comments concerning strengths and weaknesses for each question.
Provide additional comments, if necessary.

Rating Descriptions:

Excellent   There were no issues or problems, and the Contractor substantially exceeded the contract performance requirements without
commensurate additional costs to the Government.

Good   There were no, or very minimal, quality problems, and the Contractor met the contract requirements.

Acceptable   Overall compliance required minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements.

Marginal   Overall compliance required significant Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements.

Unsatisfactory   Non-conformance jeopardized the achievement of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources.

Not Applicable No relevant past performance information is available for evaluation

Contractor Company Name:  ________________________________________________________

Customer Reference Organization Name:  ______________________________________________

Brief Description of Effort:
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

Contract Number: ______________________ Contract Type: _____________________

Contract Period of Performance: ____________________________________

Number of work years required under the effort:  _______________________

How many estimated hours for each work year?  _________

Number and types of labor required under the effort:  Please indicate the number of work years required under the effort for each labor category
listed below.

        _____Program Manager


        _____Lead Technical Analyst


        _____Lead Technical Developer


        _____Operations Manager


        _____Implementation Manager


        _____Security Officer


        _____Database Manager/Specialist

If your labor requirements were substantially different that those indicated by the above labor categories, please briefly, describe the type
and level of support provided in the referenced contract:









Average Annual Labor Expenditures Billed (in U.S. dollars): __________________________

Number of Users Supported Under the Effort: _____________________________

Number of Locations Supported Under the Effort:  __________________________

Organization __________________________________________________________

References please provide two points of contact so that SSA may discuss your comments:

Reference Point of Contact (name/title) ___________________________________

Telephone _________________________ FAX  _____________________________

Reference Point of Contact (name/title) ___________________________________

Telephone _________________________ FAX  _____________________________



























1)  Cost Control-How would you rate the contractor’s record of forecasting and controlling costs?  Consider the following items:

    • Did the contractor prepare invoices in a timely and accurate manner?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:










    • Did the contractor work within the limits of the contract dollar value?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








    • Were changes necessary to the contract dollar value, and if so, were they warranted and implemented using the proper procedures and
      documentation?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:










    • Did the contractor control the target budget of the contract and properly forecast future expenditures when required?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:







    • Were travel and training funds consistently managed wisely?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:
















Circle or Underline One Overall Rating for Cost Control:

Excellent   Good       Acceptable            Marginal    Unsatisfactory        Not Applicable

   2) Quality of Product or Service-How would you rate the contractor’s record of conforming to contract requirements and to standards of good
      workmanship? Consider the following items:

      • Did the contractor’s end-product meet the requirements of the contract?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








      • Did the contractor’s systems engineering efforts transform operational needs into an integrated systems design solution?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








      • Did the contractor’s software engineering efforts meet contract requirements for software development modification and maintenance?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:







      • How successful was the contractor in meeting program quality objectives eg. Production ability, reliability, maintainability, inspecting
        ability, testing ability etc.?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








      • How successful was the contractor at recruiting, training and retaining personnel?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:




















Circle or Underline One Overall Rating for Quality of Product of Service:

Excellent   Good       Acceptable            Marginal    Unsatisfactory        Not Applicable

   3) Timeliness-How would you rate the contractor’s record of adherence to contract schedules, including administrative reports, completion of
   Task Orders on time, responsiveness to technical direction and meeting other milestones?




Comments concerning Strengths:












Comments concerning Weaknesses:





















Circle or Underline One Overall Rating for Timeliness:

Excellent   Good       Acceptable            Marginal    Unsatisfactory        Not Applicable
   4) Business Relations-How would you rate the contractor’s record of reasonable cooperative behavior, commitment to customer satisfaction and
      sound business practices?  Consider the following:

    • Was the contractor flexible to deal with in situations requiring unexpected changes and/or demands?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








    • Was the contractor concerned with providing you (the customer) with qualified support and timely support?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:










    • Did you have an open, cooperative working relationship with the contractor’s onsite Program Manager and did the contractor have a strong
      corporate support system in place for the Program Manager?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:


    • Was the contractor proactive in the identification and resolution of problems?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








    • Was the contractor responsive to submitting proposals to Task Orders, engineering change orders etc.?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:








    • Did the contractor meet their subcontracting plan goals for small and disadvantaged business concerns?


        Comments concerning Strengths:










        Comments concerning Weaknesses:






Circle or Underline One Overall Rating for Business Relations:

Excellent   Good       Acceptable            Marginal    Unsatisfactory        Not Applicable
5) Final Question:  Would you use this contractor again?

Why?








Why not?
























5. SSA Security Guidelines

The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-347) (FISMA) requires each agency to develop, document, and implement an
agency-wide information security program to safeguard information and information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency,
including those provided or managed by another agency, contractors (including subcontractors), or other source. The Statement of Work requires
the successful Contractor to (1) develop, (2) have the ability to access, or (3) host and/or maintain a Federal information system(s).

All computer systems processing, storing, and transmitting sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information, must meet or exceed
Federal information security standards.  The Contractor must take appropriate steps to ensure that the necessary security protections are
commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulting from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or
destruction of the information or information system. The Contractor’s proposal must include a risk assessment and draft Information Systems
Security Plan (SSP) that provides an overview of the security requirements of the system that will be utilized for the collection, storage,
maintenance, and transmission of the data, and disposal of data, when appropriate.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has issued publications that provide guidance in the establishment of minimum security
controls for management, operational, and technical safeguards needed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of a Federal
information system and its information.  The NIST publications may be found at http://csrc.nist.gov/.  Some examples are as follows:

    * Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication (PUB) 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and
      Information Systems
    * FIPS Pub 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems
    * FIPS 197, Advanced Encryption Standard
    * NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems
    * NIST SP 800-30, Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems
    * NIST SP 800-37, Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems
    * NIST SP 800-53, Revision 1, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems
    * NIST SP 800-53A, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems
    * NIST SP 800-63, Revision 1,  DRAFT Electronic Authentication Guideline
    * NIST SP 800-64, Revision 2, Security Considerations in the System Development Life Cycle

SSA security requirements are applicable to all contractors, subcontracts and projects affiliated with this contract that will have access to
sensitive SSA data, including personally identifiable information (PII).  The contractor must ensure that any subcontractors and sites comply
with Federal and SSA information security requirements, including conducting a risk assessment, developing a SSP, conducting systems and
security control testing, developing and completing a plan(s) of action and milestones (if necessary) providing initial and at least annual
security awareness training, and performing continuous monitoring of the systems and security controls.  The contractor shall obtain the SSA
COTR’s concurrence on any required security documentation for the contractor, subcontractor or site before the contractor shall begin or
continue work, or receive SSA confidential information.

SSA System Security Requirements

Security Requirements--SSA will help Contractor:  SSA security standards can be complicated due to the current nature of the threat environment.
SSA is here to help the contractor at all steps and prefers, when possible and practical, to assist the contractor in developing security plans
and regimens if the contractor does not already have them in place, in order for approval and smooth implementation.  However, the contractor
has the sole responsibility for preparing and implementing security plans acceptable to SSA and maintaining them.

SSA Sources of Guidance for Information Security:  SSA and its contractors and their subcontractors working on behalf of SSA must follow
guidance from the Office of Management and Budget and NIST.  SSA documents its own security requirements in the SSA Information Security
Handbook, which is available upon request.  SSA includes physical protections as part of its systems security protection regimen and does not
distinguish between protection goals for data in any media, whether paper, electronic, or other.  In order to comply with NIST and OMB guidance,
SSA requires that all appropriate protections be in place as if SSA were conducting the work under this agreement.  SSA will provide the
contractor with a contact from whom the contractor may request guidance concerning security issues for the duration of this agreement.

Subcontractor Responsibilities:  The contractor is responsible for including all of the  subcontractor activities in the security planning as if
the subcontractor were employed by the contractor conducting activities, for applying all SSA instructions and guidance to all of the
subcontractors, for ensuring the contractor and subcontractors comply with all SSA instructions and guidance, and for identifying in information
the contractor provides to SSA which any subcontractor is involved in providing what services and information.

Risk Assessment:  The nature and level of protection required for SSA data depends upon the sensitivity and amount of data, the nature of the
application or research, the effect of any process interruptions, and the nature of the environment in which the application or data will exist.
 The contractor is expected to conduct a risk assessment of these factors prior to developing a systems security plan.  The contractor must
update this risk assessment when process, environmental, or other changes would indicate that a reassessment is necessary; and must reexamine
the basis for the initial risk assessment on at least an annual basis.  All changes must be reported to SSA, and SSA will determine if a
reassessment is necessary.  In most cases, the risk analysis must be conducted by someone knowledgeable of but independent from the work to be
conducted under this agreement.

System Security Plan:  The contractor risk assessment and the nature of work will determine the scope and detail needed for the systems security
plan, and the risk assessment must be a part of the security plan.  The security plan must follow NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-18.  SSA
will not provide the contractor with any SSA sensitive data until they have submitted a systems security plan that SSA approves.  The contractor
must review, update, and resubmit to SSA a systems security plan on an annual basis, and more frequently when there is a significant change in
the business or systems process, environment, or other related activities or resources.   All changes must be reported to SSA, and SSA will
determine if a reassessment is necessary.  The security plan must contain a clear description and depiction, including diagrams, of the current
physical and logical information technology plant(s) relevant to this agreement.  The depiction must include “as is” and “to be” versions of the
contractor physical and logical technology plant(s) and the expected implementation dates for security controls not yet implemented.  The
security plan must address all of the issues described in this document, including negative responses that indicate a certain section(s) might
not apply.  The contractor must revise the security plan on an ongoing basis to accommodate new security requirements, which SSA may introduce,
or new vulnerabilities as they arise.  SSA must approve the revised security plan in order for the contractor to continue work under this
agreement, unless otherwise explicitly provided in this agreement.  The contractor may provide a security plan in stages as the expansion or
changing nature of the work requires; that is, the contractor may enhance the security plan or add supplements to it as the work expands.  The
contractor must have an SSA approved security plan in place in order to provide employees and/or subcontractors with access to any SSA sensitive
data required to perform the work required under this agreement.

Confidentiality of Information:  SSA will keep confidential all of the information the contractor provides concerning security procedures, and
any other proprietary information.  SSA may share this information with external federal monitoring authorities as might be required by their
official duties.  SSA may also share this information with entities performing security reviews on behalf of SSA.  In this later instance, SSA
will ensure that these entities maintain the confidentiality and security of any information and/or materials the contractor furnishes, and will
retrieve them once they are no longer required.  Only personnel that pass Federal suitability investigation, have a business need to the
information the contractor provides, and are bound by privacy agreements, will have access to the confidential data.

Management and Technical Oversight, and Quality Assurance:  The contractor must have technical and managerial controls in place so that:

    * the contractor can verify all of the controls in the approved security plan have been properly implemented
    * any defects have been noted and recorded for inspection by SSA
    * for any documented defects that the contractor could not immediately remediate, the contractor has a plan to implement remediation and the
      expected dates of completion
    * There is an ongoing program to ensure the controls in the security plan continue to operate as described in the plan with the intended
      results, and the contractor otherwise adheres to SSA’s security requirements.

The contractor may not use SSA sensitive data until they certify to SSA that they have implemented all parts of the security plan, it operates
as intended and achieves expected outcomes in protecting sensitive data, and SSA approves the security plan.  At SSA’s discretion, SSA may
provide the contractor a temporary waiver for some defect(s) in information security that they cannot immediately remediate.  The contractor
must exercise a separation of duties in the security plan development and testing, security administration, systems maintenance and application
development areas such that these areas retain true independence from one another and reduce opportunities for collusion.

Formal Certification and Accreditation Procedures:  The scope and nature of the work being conducted under this agreement will require the
execution of formal system security certification and accreditation procedures.  All major systems and applications must be developed and
implemented using formal systems development life cycle procedures.  For additional details, see NIST SPs 800-18, 800-30, and especially, 800-
37.

Compensating Controls:  There may be instances where an SSA mandated control cannot be implemented or there are costs or other considerations
why the control might not be appropriate.  There may be other instances an alternate control(s) may be more effective than the mandated control.
 In each of these instances, as part of the security plan, the contractor must identify what SSA mandated control is not met, the reason it is
not met, and what compensating control(s) the contractor proposes to use.

Contingency planning:  The contractor security plan must contain a contingency plan to continue operations in an emergency commensurate with the
application and importance of the work being conducted under this agreement.  The contractor must identify what contingency plans have been
selected and why they believe they are appropriate.  Contingency planning also requires consideration of factors to prevent the need to
implement a contingency plan, such as protection from fire (e.g., fire extinguishers, sprinkler system) and other possible environmental
disruptions such as, excessive heat (e.g., air conditioning), flooding, and power interruption.

SSA reviews and inspections:  Unless limited elsewhere in this agreement, SSA or its designees may conduct reviews and inspections of the
contractor’s physical and logical controls in place for the protection of all SSA property.  SSA usually affords advance notice of such
activities, but may conduct on-site reviews without advance notice.  Failure to afford SSA personnel, or their designees, access for such
reviews and inspections may be considered grounds for a finding that failed to perform significant and material work required under this
agreement.

Personnel Security—Clearance Requirements:  All individuals who will perform work on behalf of SSA and/or access SSA sensitive data must receive
clearance from SSA before access to SSA data is allowed.  This requirement includes all personnel with access to data, including those providing
technical support, maintenance or repair services, custodial staff, and other staff.  Individuals who will access SSA information may require a
higher degree of investigation and individuals who may access SSA facilities or systems require a still higher level of SSA clearance.  Using
technical or other means to reduce the opportunity to access SSA sensitive data will reduce the number of individuals who must undergo the
clearance process.

For individuals who, within the past 12 calendar months, have undergone SSA suitability investigation and received SSA clearance, the contractor
must submit copies of the individuals’ clearance letters with their respective Social Security Numbers (SSNs).  SSA will determine if SSA must
re-clear the individuals or update their clearance notifications.

Individuals who have already received a personnel clearance from another federal agency, such as federal employees from other agencies or other
federal contractors, must still undergo SSA personnel clearance.  For these previously cleared individuals, contractors must submit only the
individuals’ names, SSNs, and dates of birth, rather than all of the documentation specified elsewhere in this agreement.  SSA will determine if
SSA must re-clear the individuals or update their clearance notifications

As described elsewhere in this agreement, the contractor must notify SSA if there is any reason to believe that a cleared person has violated
the standards of conduct or has exhibited behavior that would lead another reasonable person to conclude that the reliability or suitability of
that individual is in question.

Also, whenever the business requirement for a cleared person to access SSA sensitive data ends, the contractor must revoke such access and
inform SSA to revoke such access.

Security Awareness Training and Employee Sanctions:  Before providing access to any SSA confidential data (i.e., sensitive data, including, PII)
and at least annually thereafter, the contractor must provide training to its employees on SSA rules of behavior for protecting the information
and information systems.  This in particular includes individuals working on the contractor’s behalf who have access to SSA data.  The
contractor must also inform individuals who have access to SSA sensitive information about the consequences of violating the rules of behavior
and protection of information, and the contractor must have the ability to assess meaningful sanctions against such individuals.

All individuals performing work for SSA must sign written acknowledgement that they received this training and are aware of such requirements
and sanctions.  The contractor must maintain these signed acknowledgements or agreements for the life of the agreement and provide to them to
SSA upon request.

What is SSA Property:  Unless otherwise specifically provided for in an active agreement the contractor has with SSA, all data and property that
SSA provides the contractor and/or the contractor obtains from SSA in any form, including any subsequent manipulation and derivation of data and
any data the contractor collect or create for SSA in any form including any subsequent manipulation and derivation remain in perpetuity the
property of SSA.

Property and Data Protection:  The contractor has an affirmative duty to protect all SSA property, physical and logical, from compromise or
unauthorized access, either purposeful or accidental.  The contractor must have an affirmative duty to protect any data germane in any way to
the agreement with SSA for which the contractor is a custodian, regardless of ownership of data and regardless of media.  The contractor has a
duty to protect any SSA data, including data on any media (e.g., paper, electronic, other), whether the data is at rest or in transit, and data
in temporary, alternate, and backup locations.

Data Inventory:  The contractor must know where SSA sensitive data is at all times.  This applies to any transient and temporary uses of SSA
sensitive data as well.  SSA data is deemed to be sensitive unless SSA states otherwise.  The contractor data inventory must be written and must
contain sufficient detail so that in combination with data descriptions, if data is compromised, a reasonable person would be able to determine
the exact nature of the compromise.  An inventory of PII held in connection with this agreement must be maintained and submitted to SSA every
quarter upon request.

Incident Response:  Any compromise, breach, or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data must be reported immediately to SSA.  SSA will provide
the contractor with specific procedures and contacts for this incident response.

Data De-identification:  SSA data that is sensitive because it contains personally identifiable information may be worked with in a de-
identified fashion.  De-identification is the removal of identifying information, such as name, medical record number, birth-date, social
security number to protect an individual’s privacy.  Properly de-identified data might not require the same level of protection as sensitive
data, as it, by itself, may no longer be sensitive data.  The contractor must first obtain SSA concurrence and approval, before the contractor
considers de-identified data not to be sensitive data.

Data is de-identified if it contains no information alone or combination with other items that might uniquely identify an individual.  The
presence of names, SSNs, addresses, account identifiers and numbers, telephone numbers, email addresses, and similar items are not permitted in
de-identified data.  All remaining data must be considered in combination with each other and in combination with other potential data sources
to determine whether the data may be considered de-identified.

A recommended practice is to create a unique identifier, unique to the work required under this agreement that is never used elsewhere, is never
provided to any other party in any form, and does not in itself contain any intelligible information, and to cross refer the unique identifier
with SSA sensitive data that is maintained in a separate data file and treated as sensitive data.  Even if PII data cannot be completely de-
identified, it should be stored containing the minimum amount of PII needed and appropriately safeguarded.

When The Contractor Must Use Encryption:  Regardless of any other data protection, SSA sensitive/confidential data in electronic format must be
encrypted:
 * When it is at rest, including any backups and working files.
 * When it is in transit; i.e., when electronic data is transmitted, by any means where the entire means of transport and transmission is not
   under the contractor exclusive direct control and security management (e.g., over the Internet)

Encryption Standards:  The contractor must use the most current encryption tool in NIST standards and requirements.  The most current encryption
standard as of this writing is the advanced encryption standard (AES).  See NIST’s FIPS 197 or successor guidance, if any, for more detailed
information.

Destruction of SSA Sensitive Data:   Upon the completion of any work for SSA, unless otherwise specifically provided for in an active agreement
with SSA, all SSA property must either be returned to SSA or definitively destroyed so that it may not be used.  This includes the destruction
of any copies and backups on any format.

The destruction or sanitization of the media must be so complete that it prevents unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information. To sanitize
information technology media, one of the following methods must be used: (1) approved overwrite utilities; (2) degaussing; and, (3) physical
destruction of the media.

Rewritable data media not returned to SSA must either be erased using FIPS approved means and algorithms or physically destroyed to such an
extent that any reconstruction and access to the information is impossible.  The media being overwritten must be designed for multiple reads and
writes, this includes disk drives, magnetic tapes, floppies, and USB flash drives. The overwrite utility must completely overwrite the media
with repetitive characters making the data unrecoverable.

      NOTE:  Reformatting the media does not overwrite the data, and therefore, it is ineffective in destroying the data.

Degaussing is an approved sanitization methodology for magnetic media, such as disk drives, tapes, and floppies. Degaussing must be performed
with a certified tool designed for the media being degaussed. Certification of the tool is required to ensure the magnetic flux applied to the
media is strong enough to render the information irretrievable.
      NOTE: Hard drives that are degaussed are no longer usable.

There are no exceptions to information erasure and destruction requirements, even for encrypted data without SSA’s prior expressed written
consent.

Reuse of Rewritable Data Media:  Data stored on rewritable, electronic media that is not returned to SSA must be definitely erased using FIPS
approved means and algorithms. Data in any other format than electronic format that is not returned to SSA must be physically destroyed to such
an extent that any reconstruction and any access to the confidential information are impossible.  For example, based on SSA’s Information
Systems Security Handbook, Chapter 10.3.2, paper documents containing confidential information must be burned, pulped, or shredded in strips no
wider than ¼ inch and crosscut.

The contractor must maintain a record of all data destruction, including the specific nature of the data and when and how destroyed for SSA’s
inspection and provide it on request.  The contractor must provide this record to SSA at the end of this agreement.

The contractor must include in its security plan the processes for destroying data in paper and electronic format.

Physical and Logical Access Controls:  The contractor must have the necessary physical and logical controls in place to ensure that only
authorized and cleared personnel with a defined business need under this agreement have access to SSA property.

Security functions should be restricted to a security staff and these functions must be separate from application and data developer and user
functions and access.

To the greatest extent possible, data protection should be afforded through separate and separately administered intrinsic security controls and
not as part of an application or by data users, respectively.  For example, native database and operating system security or purpose built
security management programs and any audit trail they provide should be used where possible in preference to embedding security functions within
an application program.

SSA data in other than electronic format, such as on paper, or stored electronic media, and SSA data on accessible electronic devices and any
logical or physical infrastructure protecting that data must be afforded physical protection.

For all access devices, the contractor must be able to control and know of all keys, tokens, user IDs, or their equivalents including master
keys or their equivalents that might be used by maintenance, security, IT, and other similar personnel, and ensure that only authorized and
cleared personnel have access to those keys.  This often means the contractor must obtain personnel clearance from SSA for more than just
personnel who will be accessing or working with SSA data or collecting sensitive data on behalf of SSA.

In institutional settings, this also often means that a better method to manage access to SSA data is that in addition to other controls to
protect SSA sensitive information, such as keeping sensitive data in locked rooms, the information should be stored within another, smaller
container, such as cabinet, safe, or other secure device with more limited access.  SSA data in electronic format should be maintained on
dedicated media or devices.

These precautions may also help in two additional ways: (1) it will reduce the number of employees for whom it must obtain security
investigation clearance from SSA, and (2) when it comes time to destroy or return data the expense and potential loss of other data will be
reduced.

Audit Trails:  Some identified combination of audit trails and recorded access controls must be in place in order to identify who has access and
who accessed what SSA data and when.  The contractor must maintain these records for the life of this agreement, and provide them to SSA on
request or on termination of this agreement.  Depending on the nature of data and potential changes, SSA may also require that additional
records be kept of specific changes.

Device, Processor, and Data Store Malware Protection:  The contractor must have up to date firewalls, anti-computer virus and other anti-malware
software to protect electronic media.  For example, all storage and computing devices accessible to individuals accessing, updating and/or
manipulating SSA sensitive data must have active firewall(s), anti-virus, and other anti-malware protection software that are kept up-to-date.
Using up to date anti-malware software, all files must be scanned as they are written and read, and regular entire store scans must be conducted
regularly.

The contractor must keep up to date all operating systems and programs physically or logically available to any processor or data store handling
SSA sensitive data.  The contractor must configure all software in such a way so as to minimize the opportunities for compromise of the
software.  For example, the contractor must establish the specific settings for Microsoft operating systems and software.

Any email access conducted from any processor with physical or logical access to an SSA sensitive data store must have all components checked
before they are opened.

Any storage device or processor that is not physically isolated from any external access of any kind must have its physical and logical access
points protected by some facility designed to restrict physical and logical access, such as a firewall, and the contractor must keep the
firewall(s) up to date.


A best practice for more complex environments is to also maintain a purpose specific intrusion detection facility.  Intrusions detected by
whatever means must be logged and investigated.

Computers may not have peer-to-peer file sharing software.

Incident Reporting.  The contractor must immediately report to SSA, any intrusions that might have resulted in unauthorized access to SSA
sensitive data.  The contractor must keep a record of all other intrusions and provide it to SSA on request.  The contractor must keep this
record for SSA’s inspection for the life of the agreement and provide it to SSA upon termination of this agreement.

Remote Physical and Logical Access, Wireless Access, Work at home, Flexi-place, Alternate Duty Stations, Internet Access :  Any instance of
remote access to information systems that contain SSA sensitive data must be noted and the applicable protections clearly described.

Any computer used remotely, such as a laptop PC, must be used for SSA work only.  That is a laptop or desktop PC that an employer or contractor
uses at his or her home or remote office must be restricted to business use only.   The employee or contractor or his or her family members may
not use the computer for their private-non-business-related activities.

Computers may not have peer-to-peer file sharing software.

User ID:  A user ID is a unique identifier for a person, process, or machine to some other person, process, or machine.  User IDs are usually
persistent and not regularly changed from time to time.

The contractor must have an acceptable regimen in place to create and protect user credentials, to devise credentials suitable to the program
purpose and risk, to ensure that only authorized individuals possess credentials, that the contractor systems deactivate the credentials after
some specific prescribed period of non-use, that the contractor or the system deactivate the credentials of individuals who longer require
access, and that the contractor keep a permanent record of user credentials and user ids for SSA’s inspection on request and for SSA when this
agreement ends.  The contractor must ensure that user ids are kept secure in order to protect user access credentials.

Password Protection:  Passwords should be known only to the user ID they are authenticating.  If passwords are known to others, such as
administrators, or passwords are stored or transmitted in such a way that they can be read by others, there is no assurance that the user ID the
contractor system is authenticating is actually being used by the person for whom it was intended.

Passwords must be changed at least every 30 days.  Passwords must have some protection from dictionary attack, such as being required to be of a
certain complexity and stored as an iterative salted hash.  Some best practices for passwords are as follows:

 * Passwords should be 8 characters, containing letters and numbers, and if at all possible, special characters, such as #, $, @.
 * Passwords should NOT be easy to guess—they should not contain words form dictionaries or encyclopedia in any known language, such as birth day
   or the birth date of anyone close.
 * Passwords must be protected from being guessed randomly, e.g., logon-lockout after three consecutive failed logon attempts.  A best practice
   is that upon successful logon, the user be notified of the time and place of the prior successful logon and all ensuing unsuccessful logons.
 * Passwords must not be stored on any device or left in an unsecured location (e.g., under the keyboard, on the monitor, etc.)
 * A positive identification procedure must be in place for purposes of resetting passwords, and some procedure must be in place to ensure that
   easily guessed passwords do not compromise the password reset procedure.
 * SSA requires two-factor authentication for remote access to SSA sensitive data (e.g., using laptop to access the system/SSA sensitive data).

Session Protection:  Sessions must time out and be locked after at least 20 minutes of inactivity.  Absent a business purpose approved by SSA
only one concurrent session should be permitted per user.

Host protection:  When the contractor develops or make a host application available that might be accessed remotely, the contractor must protect
access to the application with the presumption that one or more of the remote computers or workstations has inadvertently been compromised.  The
host application must therefore take advantage of available system configuration, safeguards, and techniques to prevent access to SSA data by
potentially compromised workstations.

When a host conveys SSA sensitive information, the application must allow only transport layer security (TLS) sessions that are encrypted.  For
the only acceptable cryptographic suites, see Table 3 of NIST SP 800-52 (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-52/SP800-52.pdf).  The
application must not negotiate down to establish a session that is less secure, e.g., using secure socket layer (SSL).

-The key exchange length must be 1024 bits or greater.  Applications that will still be in service after 2010 must be implemented with a key
exchange length of 2048 bits or more and with the SHA-256 digest function.

-The software the host uses to implement the cryptographic suite (cryptographic service provider or CSP) must be certified under the NIST FIPS
140 Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) (http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/STM/cmvp/documents/140-1/1401vend.htm).


      NOTE:  Most commonly used software use FIPS compliant modules.  Also, a product vendor may not be on the NIST approved list, but the vendor
      may be using components that are on the NIST approved list, such as “OpenSSL” or “Network Security Services (NSS)”.

-The host must offer a digital certificate which is publicly recognized and can be publicly validated.  The name identified in the certificate
must match the domain being used to access the web server.  That domain must be dedicated to this application, and all hosts in the domain must
reject any type of connection other than those secured by TLS.  Certificates must not have a life at issuance of more than two years.
Certificates cannot be used outside of their period of validity.

-The TLS session must be successfully started prior to any other activity being undertaken, including any authentication effort.

-All items on a web page or equivalent must be encrypted and be in the same domain.

-All elements conveyed outwards by a host must be marked to the extent possible so that they are not stored in any non-volatile fashion by the
receiving client.  For example, web responses must satisfy both HTTP 1.0 and 1.1 by always sending the HTTP 1.0 Pragma (implementation-specific
information) no-store and no-cache headers, by sending for HTTP 1.1 the cache-control cache-response-directive headers of no-store and no-cache,
and by ensuring all content is marked as expired by serving an expiration date/time which is the same as the message date/time stamp.

-Authorization and role data must be maintained on the host side of the session and must not be maintained on the client.  The host side must
know which appropriate actions are possible and appropriate, given the application’s current state, and terminate the session should an action
associated with a client submitted token not be within the immediate expected scope of the application being offered by the host.

-Client tokens must be random, must be at least 256 bits in length, must not persist after session completion, and must not be communicated as
parameters of a URL.  Tokens to the extent possible must be kept ephemeral, secure and hidden, with tokens in the form of cookies being marked
as “secure” and “http only,” having no expiration date to mark them as session cookies, and refer to the identical domain as that protected by
the TLS session.

- Tokens must be regenerated immediately prior to and immediately upon the completion of any authentication action.

-Only one active session is permitted per user ID.  Multiple sessions might be permitted by SSA only with documented and approved business
cases, provided:  all sessions originate from the same IP address; and a disconnection of one session for whatever reason results in a
disconnection of all sessions.

-Tokens must be regenerated at least every five minutes, measured from the recorded time of token creation to token receipt.

- Tokens for applications which might permit access to sensitive data in bulk (more than one individual’s data at a time) or data not created by
the requesting entity should be regenerated with each individual service request.

-Tokens received by a host over 20 minutes in age imply 20 minutes of non-use and either must not be honored and result in a session disconnect,
or require identity and access right reconfirmation before proceeding.  SSA may permit periods longer than 20 minutes with a documented and
approved business case.   The contractor must make such requests to the COTR.

-Sessions lasting over 2 hours must either be terminated after a warning, or require identity and access right reconfirmation before allow the
session to continue.

-In order to detect improper session initiation attempts, the initial successful client authentication must also display the day, date, time,
and preferably the location of the initial logon.  A successful authentication must also display the day, date, time, and preferably the address
of all unsuccessful logons from the prior successful logon up to the current login session.  This information does not need to be displayed when
credentials are verified again at later points in the same session.

-Three invalid authentication actions in a row will result in a 15 minute suspension for any further authentication actions for the supplied
user credential.  Some automated process to manage excessive failed logins over an extended period of time must also be in place to prevent
ongoing continuous but low level attempts to guess a password.  Eight invalid authentication actions during the current business day, not
necessarily successive, will result in a suspension of any further authentication actions for that user credential until the next business day
or for fourteen hours, whichever is longer.  Where there have been 20 or more unsuccessful logins in the prior 48 hours, upon successful login a
password change will be required before application execution proceeds.

-A logout procedure must be explicitly available on every web page or equivalent.  The procedure must overwrite the token and any security
applications on the client with an equivalent amount of random data, and must, internally, obsolete the previously valid token.

-Where possible, the host should record client characteristics at the time of initial authentication, compare these characteristics with
characteristics in client messages or client-side program, and terminate the session when the system detects any changes during the session.

      Examples: Store data such as accept, accept-language, browser characteristics, higher octets of an IP address, and so on.

-The system must check all information received from a client to ensure that binary, HTML, SQL directive code, and any other type of
inappropriate code/information is not present.  Any need to receive, from a client, data other than pure unformatted text must be approved in
advance by SSA.  Base64 encoding cannot be accepted.

-Queries which allow the return of SSA sensitive information must be structured so that a user may retrieve only records for which that user has
a legitimate business requirement.  For example, if a user is responsible only for data associated with a particular business entity, then only
records associated with that entity should be accessible to that user, regardless of any other request parameters that might have been provided
to the host.

- SSA data must be maintained in centrally managed hosts rather than on client workstations.

-When SSA data is located other than on a host, the client must be protected as if it were a host.  Processes which allow the download of any
data for the presumed purpose of non-volatile retention past the end of the session must be documented and receive SSA’s prior approval.  As
part of the TLS handshake protocol, the host must request and receive a valid client side certificate.  The system must revalidate the
requesting user’s identity and authorization prior to the download.  The download must be encrypted using FIPS approved standards either at the
host end or a combination of TLS while in transport and an encrypted file system on receipt.  The host must automatically record and store in an
audit file the fact and nature of any such downloads.

- The host, host processes and host database(s) must be protected following the NIST recommendations found in the following documents:
 * NIST ITL Bulletin, January 2008, “ Secure Web Servers: Protecting Web Sites That are Accessed by the Public”
 * NIST Special Publication 800-44 Version 2, “Guidelines on Securing Public Web Servers,” September 2007.






6.  Authorization for Financial Institution Records Document

                                                                      [pic]



7. Web Standards References


 SSA recommends using following links for a reference to the Web Services standards. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an international
 community where member organizations, a full-time staff, and the public work together to develop Web standards. It is highly recognized
 consortium for any web technology standards.


 http://www.w3.org/TR/


 http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-ws-policy-20070904/


 http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-ws-addr-metadata-20070904/


 http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-soap12-testcollection-20070427/


 http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-wsdl20-primer-20070626/


 http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/#documents




 There are many other organizations actively and independently work on the Web Services standards but they all contribute to the W3C for
 establishing unified standards. Here are a few links of other organizations.


 http://www.ws-i.org/


 http://www.oasis-open.org/home/index.php


 http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/webservices/standards/




      -----------------------
[1] The section 508 standards are available at http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Content&ID=11
.












Social Security Administration (SSA)

 SSA-RFP-10-1020





Section E- Solicitation Provisions


Table of Contents










Section E: Solicitation Provisions



Instructions to Offerors



52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors (JUNE 2008 



 (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the , letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR  (see FAR (b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); 

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the , include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 

(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 

(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 

(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 

(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 

GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section

470 East L’Enfant Plaza,  

Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978. 

(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (). 

(ii) Quick Search (). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 

(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR ) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the  may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at . An offeror located outside the  must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. 

(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. 



Instructions to Offerors (cont.) - Preparation of Offers/Proposals



The Government intends to award a Firm Fixed Price Contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose proposal, conforming to the solicitation, represents the best value to the Government.  The contract will have fixed price contract line items to facilitate partial payments during the implementation period, as well as fixed price monthly rates for the maintenance of the network and associated managed services once implementation is complete.  The contract will also contain options for additional services and four (4) one year option periods to extend the term of the contract.   FAR Part 15 procedures will be employed in the solicitation, evaluation, discussion and award of proposals.



Offerors must complete blocks 30a, 30b and 30c of the SF1449. These blocks contain the signature, typed name and title of offeror and the date signed.  



Proposals shall consist of two separate volumes, with each submitted on a separate compact disks and paper copies labeled and in the quantities listed below:



Volume I – Non-Price Volume (limited to 300 pages): 3 CD-ROMs and 3 Paper Copies 



Volume II  Price Volume (limited to 50 pages): 3 CD-ROMs and 3 Paper Copies



 Each proposal volume shall be labeled with the volume number/volume title/copy number (ex., Volume 1 – Non-Price Volume Copy 1), the Offeror’s corporate name, and the solicitation number.  All proposals submitted on CD-ROM must be readable by the software in use by the Government (i.e., Microsoft Office 2003).  Proposals submitted in software formats not readable by the Government may be determined to be unresponsive to the solicitation and removed from consideration for award.  Offerors shall submit on CD-ROM all Microsoft compatible files (containing embedded graphical, spreadsheet, multimedia, or other objects) that comprise their proposal.  The Offeror shall also provide all embedded object files in their native formats.  Pages of embedded object files will be counted against the respective proposal volume page volume limits detailed below.  Oversized pages, such as 11”x17” pages, shall be counted as two pages each against the proposal volume page limits detailed below.  The Government requires that Offerors provide only the specific information requested in the solicitation.



All page limits for proposal volumes are based upon single side page printing, a font size of 12 point, use of single spacing, and a one-inch page margin on all sides.  Offerors shall employ font at a size no smaller than font size 12 for their proposals, except for headings, legends and text associated with figures and tables.  Text for headings may be greater than font size 12 and use of a font other than Times New Roman is allowable. Text for figures and tables may be developed using a smaller font size (8 or 10 point font for example) and use of a font other than Times New Roman is allowable, provided that all such fonts used in figures and tables are legible and clear to the unaided eye.



Prior to submission, all electronic media should be scanned for viruses. Any electronically submitted files that contain viruses will be rejected and returned to the Offeror.



Non-Price Volume Instructions



The Offeror’s Non-Price Volume shall consist of three separate sections:



Technical Approach

Past Performance 

Key Personnel





Technical Approach Section Instructions



The Technical Approach must show that the objectives stated in the Statement of Work are understood and offer a logical program for their achievement.  Offerors merely proposing to provide a service in accordance with the request for proposal document will not be eligible for award.  The proposal must include a comprehensive plan for meeting the needs of the Social Security Administration (SSA), addressing each of the requirements of the Request for Proposal (RFP), and explaining the proposed technical/managerial approach to be used. Furthermore, the Technical Approach must include operational, performance and functional details of specific system capability and/or feature as explicitly stated in the SOW.



Offerors’ technical proposals must structure their technical approach and address the following areas of concern:



Requirements.  A narrative description of the contractor's understanding of the purpose of the Government’s requirements and the functions required to satisfy the requirements.

Proposal Solution.  A narrative description of the contractor's proposed solution plans for performance, technical approach, and any problem areas. The Offeror’s proposed solution narrative shall fully describe the technical capabilities of all systems required to implement the Offeror’s solution. The Offeror’s solution narrative shall provide all necessary detail on the proposed methodologies for financial institution recruitment and participation, as well as ongoing quality control.

Implementation Plan.  Definition and understanding of the Government’s milestones/ deliverables, and schedules for meeting them.  This section should contain all necessary information to detail the Offeror’s plans for implementation of their proposed solution. This section shall contain any necessary charts and diagrams showing a high level, deliverable oriented schedule, such as Gantt Charts or timelines diagrams illustrating sequence of work elements, schedule critical path, and dependencies of work being performed.

Contract Management Plan: The proposal must present comprehensive plan for the management of the project to ensure project success, maintain necessary cost/ price controls, deliver products and complete tasks in accordance with stated schedules, and minimize overall project risk.  The Contract Management Plan shall detail the organizational structure and functional alignment of the Offeror's project team (inclusive of any subcontractors and/or teaming partners), shall delineate roles and responsibilities, and demonstrate the proposed lines of authority to address problems and carry out the work described in the SOW. The Contract Management Plan shall include a Work Breakdown Structure and Staffing Schedule that detailes the labor hours by skill category, that will be applied to each milestone and deliverable. All proposed subcontractor resources shall be clearly denoted in the staffing schedule. No cost information should be provided in the Contract Management Plan.

Assumptions.  The proposal shall identify any assumptions on the contractor's part used in developing the proposal and costs. 

Travel Requirements.  A detailed definition of any travel to be performed, including schedule, mode of transportation, locations, duration, personnel involved, and purpose of each trip.

Supplemental Resources.  A detailed definition of the supplemental resources, i.e., materials, software, cable, and/or equipment required for task order performance to be provided by the Government, or on a reimbursable basis, by the contractor.

Certification.  A certifying statement that the Contractor is professionally accredited and fully licensed to perform the types of tasks detailed in the statement of work. 

Risk Assessment.  A description of any risks inherent in the task and actions proposed to mitigate those risks.

Information Confidentiality.  All proposals must include a signed statement acknowledging that the vendor is aware that all materials provided by the Government to be audited remain the Government’s property and shall be safeguarded while in contractor custody.

Compliance Matrix. All proposals shall contain a Compliance Matrix that cross references the stated requirements contained in the SOW with the specific portions of the technical approach’s method for meeting those requirements.  



Past Performance Section Instructions



The Offeror’s past performance information must provide sufficient detail to demonstrate the Offeror’s corporate success in performing relevant work of a similar size, scope, and complexity as detailed in this RFP’s SOW. Each party (prime contractor, teaming partners, and/or proposed sub-contractors) to the offer must provide specific past performance reference information for three prior and/or existing contracts that are similar in scope and complexity to the role they are proposed to fulfill under the offer. 



All past performance references, both for Government and commercial contracts, shall include the following information:



Contract/Project Title.

Contract/Project Number (if applicable).

Client Name.

Client Address.

Contracting Officer Point-of-Contact (POC):

Name of the Contracting Officer POC;

Contract Officer POC’s Telephone Number (including area code and extension, if appropriate); and

Contracting Officer POC’s e-mail address.



Technical Project Officer (PO)/Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) POC:

Name of the PO/COTR POC;

PO/COTR POC’s Telephone Number (including area code and extension, if appropriate); and

PO/COTR POC’s e-mail address.



The following information on the contract:

Dollar value of contract at time of award; (For commercial contract references “exceeding $xxx” is acceptable.)

Cumulative dollar value of contract to date; (For commercial contract references “exceeding $xxx” is acceptable.)

Period of performance;

A narrative description of each cited contract’s major performance objectives, as well as descriptions of the supplies and/or services provided, and how those supplies and/or services were/are similar and relevant to the requirements as set forth in this solicitation; and

Describe any significant performance problems that were encountered on the cited/referenced project, and explain how they were solved/ corrected by the Offeror/contractor.



The Offeror is responsible for verifying and ensuring that the information provided in support of its cited/referenced past performance and experience is complete, comprehensive, accurate, and current as of the month of issuance of this solicitation. Offerors are advised that past performance and experience information may be obtained from other sources known to the Government; and, therefore, the Government may also evaluate information from such other sources, even though the Offeror does not include such information in its proposal.



Key Personnel Section Instructions 



Proposals shall contain qualifications information for all proposed key personnel. Key personnel are those persons deemed essential by the Offeror for successful task order performance (e.g., Program Manager; Deputy Program Manager; Task Managers/Leaders; Lead/Senior Analysts or Subject Matter Specialists).



The Offeror’s key-personnel qualifications information must include descriptions of the roles and responsibilities for each key person, as well as resumes of the all proposed key personnel.  This documentation should substantiate that the proposed key personnel can adequately meet the requirements of the SOW.  The resumes provided must be sufficiently detailed to demonstrate the experience, education, vocational backgrounds, relevant experience, and qualifications/ certifications of the key personnel to perform the tasks described in the SOW for which they are proposed.

(End of provision) 



Proposal Evaluation 



FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation—Commercial Items (JAN 1999) 



(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The Government’s award determination will use a “best value” trade-off methodology, under which non-price factors, when considered as a whole, shall be considered more important than price factors. The evaluation of proposals will be performed as follows:



Evaluation of Non-Price Proposals



The evaluation of non-price proposals will be based upon the stated evaluation criteria using the methodology detailed herein.  The Offeror should show that the objectives stated in the Statement of Work are understood and should offer a logical program for their achievement.  Offerors merely proposing to provide supplies and services in accordance with the solicitation document will not be eligible for award.  The proposal must include a comprehensive plan for meeting the needs of the Social Security Administration (SSA), addressing each of the requirements of the Request for Proposal (RFP), and explaining the proposed technical and managerial approaches to be used.



The following factors, listed in descending order of importance will be used in the non-price evaluation of proposals:



Technical Approach Factor

Past Performance Factor

Key-Personnel Factor



An evaluation of each non-price evaluation factor will be conducted and then each factor will be given an adjectival rating. The methodologies of evaluation and rating scales for each evaluation factor are detailed later in this section of the solicitation.



After evaluating the individual non-price evaluation factors, each proposal will be given a composite non-price factors evaluation rating based on the following scale:





NOTE: To be eligible for award a proposal must receive a composite non-price factors rating of “Acceptable,” or greater.





Technical Approach Factor Evaluation 



The Technical Approach Factor is made up of three sub-factors which are approximately equal in importance:

Proposed Solution System Capabilities/Financial Recruitment Plan

Implementation Plan

Contract Management Plan



Technical Approach Adjectival Ratings



An evaluation of each Offeror’s technical requirements response will be conducted based upon the strengths and weaknesses contained in the Technical Requirements Volume. Each Offeror’s Technical Requirements will then be given an adjectival rating based on the following scale:









Past Performance Factor Evaluation



The evaluation of past performance will consist of a qualitative assessment of the Offeror’s demonstrated success in the performance of previous and/or ongoing contracts of similar size, scope, and complexity to the requirement of this solicitation. Evaluation of past performance will be based upon consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, and will take into consideration factors such as the currency and relevance of the information, the source of the information, the context of the data, and general trends in contractor’s performance. The Government will evaluate the relevance of the cited past performance reference information to the requirements stated in this solicitation as well as the quality of the Offeror’s past performance and determine each Offeror’s probability of success on the proposed contract based upon this record of past performance.  The Government will seek to determine whether an Offeror has consistently demonstrated a commitment to customer satisfaction and timely delivery of services at fair and reasonable cost/prices. The Government shall make an assessment of the Offeror’s past performance, taking into account (but not limited to): 



Cost Control

Quality of Product or Service

Timeliness

Business Relations

Customer Satisfaction				



In assessing an Offeror’s past performance, the Government will consider references submitted by the Offeror and may consider information from other sources such as, information contained in Government past performance databases. For cited references, the Government will make only 2 attempts to contact a relevant reference for obtaining past performance information. 



Past Performance Adjectival Ratings



The following adjectival ratings will be used to evaluate the past performance factor:





(NOTE: In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant experience, or for whom information on past performance is not available, the Offeror will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance, as per the guidance established at FAR 15.305.)





Key Personnel Factor Evaluation



Key personnel are those persons the Offeror proposes to staff the leadership roles in the performance of the contract’s activities, and include such persons as: Contractor Point of Contact for Customer Satisfaction; Program Manager; Deputy Program Manager; Lead Engineer(s); Lead Technician(s), etc. The Offeror’s Key-Personnel Qualifications documentation must provide sufficient detail to demonstrate that the Offeror will provide the quantity and quality of skilled workforce necessary to successfully meet the technical and managerial requirements described in the SOW.  The evaluation of Key- Personnel Qualifications shall be based upon the content, completeness and thoroughness of the data submitted, as well as the relevance of the skills, abilities, qualifications, and professional experience of the persons as relates to the role they are proposed to perform in meeting the requirements of the solicitation. 



Each proposed key person will be individually evaluated. After these individual evaluations are completed an overall rating will be given to the Offeror’s proposed key personnel. The following adjectival ratings will be used to evaluate the key personnel factor:



Key Personnel Adjectival Ratings







NOTE: The eventual contract awardee’s proposed key-personnel qualifications will be incorporated into the contract as material terms of the contract and the Government will consider a key person’s failure to meet the qualifications as a breach of the contract.





Evaluation of Price Proposals 



The evaluation of price proposals will be based on the prices proposed by the Offeror in the Section A price tables. The Government will evaluate proposals for award purposes by adding the total price for all option periods with the total price for the base requirement.  Evaluation of separately priced line items and option periods shall not obligate the Government to purchase separately priced line items or exercise the option periods. The Government may, at its discretion, accept any or all separately priced line items proposed by an Offeror.



The primary means of determining the “fairness and reasonableness” of proposed prices will be through competition and the comparison of the prices offered in response to this solicitation. Fairness and reasonableness of proposed prices may also be determined through one or more of the following methods:



Comparison of the proposed price with prices found reasonable on previous purchases; 

Current price lists, catalogs, or advertisements.

A comparison with similar items in a related industry; and,

Comparison to an independent Government estimate.



Additionally, a price realism analysis will be conducted in order to assess the Offeror's ability to project a price which is realistic and which indicates that the Offeror understands the nature and extent of the work to be performed.  The Government will independently review and evaluate the Offeror’s proposed prices to determine if they are consistent with the Offeror’s technical proposal, reflect a clear understanding of the Government’s requirements, and are consistent with the Offeror’s standard commercial practice in providing the goods and services described in the solicitation. This price realism analysis will allow the Government to assess any potential price/cost risk factors in proposals which may bear on the Offeror’s understanding of the requirements and the means proposed to meet the requirements. Offerors are placed on notice that any proposals that are unrealistic in terms of technical and management commitment or unrealistically low in overall price, inclusive of option periods, may be deemed reflective of an inherent lack of management and technical competence or indicative of failure to comprehend the complexity and risk of the contract requirements.  Prices determined to be unrealistic as described herein may be considered as risk factors that preclude award.



Offerors must be aware of the duration of performance periods and the potential effect of the periods’ duration on their pricing proposals when submitting their offers.  All proposed prices must be included in the pricing tables. The Government will not evaluate, nor will it pay, prices other than those listed in the pricing tables. 





Best Value Determination Methodology



FAR Part 15 procedures will be used in the solicitation, receipt of proposals, and the source selection process.



The Government intends to award a single contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose proposal, conforming to the solicitation, represents the “best value” to the Government. In determining the best value, the Government will perform a series trade-off analysis based on both the non-price evaluation ratings and the price evaluations. Under these trade-off analyses non-price factors, when considered as a whole, shall be considered more important than price factors for award determination purposes.



The best value award decision will then be made as follows:



If the Offeror with the highest technical evaluation rating also has the lowest price, then that Offeror will be considered best overall value. 



If multiple Offerors receive substantially equal non-price evaluation ratings, then price will be a major factor in determining the best overall value.



If multiple Offerors receive differing non-price evaluation ratings the overall differences in price could become the determining factor as to whether the differences in the ratings is worth the higher price.



The closer the non-price evaluation ratings of the various proposals are to one another, the more important price considerations become in determining the overall best-value for the Government. Thus, the Government’s best value decision may result in an award to other than the lowest priced Offeror, or the Offeror with the highest non-price evaluation ratings. In deciding which offer(s) to select, the Government will be averse to risk. 





(b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). 



(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. 



(End of provision) 


Representations and Certifications

52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items. (Aug 2009)



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision. 

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. 

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Inverted domestic corporation” means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. 

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

(b) 

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] 

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. 

(7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

(8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] 

(i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not an emerging small business. 

(ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows: 

(A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or 

(B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). 

(Check one of the following):

(9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

(10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) , Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.” 

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.” 

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

Other Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals— 

(1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

(3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and 

(4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(ii) Examples. 

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at (b).] 

(1) Listed end products.

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2) o Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (, ). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of , reporting requirements of , and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR , the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

o  TIN: ________________________________. 

o  TIN has been applied for. 

o  TIN is not required because: 

o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

(4) Type of organization. 

o  Sole proprietorship; 

o  Partnership; 

o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

o  Foreign government; 

o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

o  Other ________________________________. 

(5) Common parent. 

o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

o  Name and TIN of common parent: 

Name ________________________________. 

TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at  (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR ). 

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one. 

(End of provision) 







Excellent

Non-price Proposal provides high benefit to the Government with no apparent risk. 

Good

Non-price Proposal provides high benefit to government with low apparent risk.

Acceptable

Non-price Proposal provides moderate benefit to government with low apparent risk.

Marginal

Non-price Proposal provides moderate benefit to government with moderate to high apparent risk.

Unsatisfactory

Non-price Proposal provides low benefit to government with moderate to high apparent risk.



Excellent

Technical Approach demonstrates excellent understanding of requirements.  The approach significantly exceeds performance or capability standards. Has exceptional strengths that will significantly benefit the Government.  There are no weaknesses or deficiencies.

Good

Technical Approach demonstrates good understanding of requirements. The approach exceeds performance or capability standards. Has one or more strengths that will benefit the Government.  Weaknesses, if any, are minor and are more than offset by strengths.

Acceptable

Technical Approach demonstrates acceptable understanding of requirements.  The approach meets performance or capability standards. Acceptable solution. Few or no strengths.  Weaknesses are generally offset by strengths.

Marginal

Technical Approach demonstrates shallow understanding of requirements.  The approach only marginally meets performance or capability standards necessary for minimal but acceptable task order performance.  The proposal has weaknesses that are not offset by strengths.

Unsatisfactory

Technical Approach fails to meet performance or capability standards. Requirements can only be met with major changes to the proposal.  Numerous weaknesses and deficiencies exist.



Excellent

Past performance is highly similar and relevant to the stated requirements in size, scope, and complexity.  Past performance record is entirely favorable and there are no unfavorable comments from references. The past performance record possesses exceptional strengths.

Good

Past performance is similar and relevant to the stated requirements in size, scope, and complexity. Past performance record is more favorable than unfavorable. Unfavorable references, if any, are minor and are more than offset by favorable references.

Acceptable



Past performance is somewhat similar and relevant to the stated requirements in size, scope, and complexity. Past performance has favorable and unfavorable references.  Unfavorable references are generally offset by favorable references.

Marginal

Past performance is only slightly similar and relevant to the stated requirements in size, scope, and complexity. Unfavorable references are not offset by favorable references.     

Unsatisfactory 

Past performance is not similar and relevant to the stated requirements in size, scope, and complexity. More unfavorable than favorable past performance record. No favorable references; or unfavorable references greatly surpass favorable references.

Not Applicable

No relevant past performance information is available for evaluation; or, Offeror has no relevant experience.

Proposal is neither rated favorably or unfavorably.



Excellent

Proposed key-personnel have extensive professional experience and/or qualifications that indicate they will be highly successful in the roles they are proposed to play in contract performance.  Key Personnel information indicates low performance risk to the Government. There are no weaknesses or deficiencies.

Good

Proposed key-personnel have professional experience and/or qualifications that indicate they will be successful in the roles they are proposed to play in contract performance.  Key Personnel information indicates low performance risk to the Government. Weaknesses, if any, are minor and are more than offset by strengths.

Acceptable

Proposed key-personnel have professional experience and/or qualifications that indicate they will be somewhat successful in the roles they are proposed to play in contract performance.  Key Personnel information indicates low to moderate performance risk to the Government. Key Personnel has few or no strengths.  Weaknesses are generally offset by strengths.

Marginal

Proposed key-personnel have limited professional experience and/or qualifications that indicate they will be moderately successful in the roles they are proposed to play in contract performance.  Key Personnel information indicates moderate performance risk to the Government.  Key Personnel information has weaknesses that are not offset by strengths.  

Unsatisfactory

Proposed key-personnel do not have professional experience and/or qualification that indicate they will be successful in the roles they are proposed to play in contract performance.  Key Personnel information indicates high performance risk to the Government. Key Personnel information has numerous weaknesses.



Number of Employees 

Average Annual Gross Revenues 

__ 50 or fewer 

__ $1 million or less 

__ 51–100 

__ $1,000,001–$2 million 

__ 101–250 

__ $2,000,001–$3.5 million 

__ 251–500 

__ $3,500,001–$5 million 

__ 501–750 

__ $5,000,001–$10 million 

__ 751–1,000 

__ $10,000,001–$17 million 

__ Over 1,000 

__ Over $17 million 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

3010-10-1001 SSA-RFP-10-1020
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1

2
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

02/23/2010

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

TRACI LEACH
CODE

410-965-9539 00600
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

03/23/2010 1700 ET
SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS % FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS Sole Source

9. ISSUED BY

Social Security Administration Office of Acquisition and Grants 1st Floor - Rear Entrance 7111 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1811
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X UNRESTRICTED OR

NAICS:

541512

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.0
13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

8(A)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X RFP

0013

16. ADMINISTERED BY

OAG

Social Security Administration After 4pm-Call First 410-965-4070 Rcvg Hrs: 7:30a-6:00p Operations Bldg Loading Dock 6401 Security Blvd Baltimore MD 21235-0001
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION Office of Acquisition and Grants 1st Floor - Rear Entrance 7111 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1811
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

Access to Financial Institutions. See Sections A-E. 0001 Access to Financial Insitution - Base plus 4 option years (See Attachments)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDEND

X ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

RANDY PICKWELL
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

2
24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

