<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FResponses.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FResponses.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>DTMC75-09-R-00038 Attachment 2 Vendors shall provide a cost proposal for the Firm Fixed Priced.

Base Period CLINS 0001 Documents Generation / Conversion 0002 Program Manager 0003 Legal Researcher 0004 Writer Base Year Total: Rate X 40 Hours Rate X 896 Hours Rate X 120 Hours Page

Option Period I CLINS 1001 Documents Generation / Conversion 1002 Program Manager 1003 Legal Researcher 1004 Writer Rate X 24 Hours Rate X 672 Hours Rate X 80 Hours Page

Option Year Total:

Option Period II CLINS 2001 Documents Generation / Conversion 2002 Program Manager 2003 Legal Researcher 2004 Writer Rate X 24 Hours Rate X 672 Hours Rate X 80 Hours Page

Option Year Total:

Option Period III CLINS

DTMC75-09-R-00038 Attachment 2

3001 Documents Generation / Conversion 3002 Program Manager 3003 Legal Researcher 3004 Writer Option Year Total: Rate X 24 Hours Rate X 672 Hours Rate X 80 Hours

Page

Option Period IV CLINS 4001 Documents Generation / Conversion 4002 Project Manager 4003 Legal Researcher 4004 Writer Option Year Total: Rate X 24 Hours Rate X 672 Hours Rate X 80 Hours Page

Total Contract Price:

$____________________

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 1 of 8

Support Services for the Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP) National Variance Tracking Database Statement of Work
1.0 1.0 BACKGROUND The Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP) is a Federal grant program administered by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) that provides financial assistance to States, the District of Columbia, and eligible territories to conduct roadside inspections and other enforcement activities designed to improve Commercial Motor Vehicle (CMV) safety. The goal of the MCSAP is to reduce the number and severity of crashes and hazardous materials incidents involving CMVs through uniform, consistent, and effective CMV safety programs. To receive MCSAP funding, a State must submit a Commercial Vehicle Safety Plan (CVSP) that includes, in part, detailed information on how the State proposes to use its MCSAP funds. To participate in the MCSAP, states must satisfy a variety of requirements that are intended to ensure that the States have the resources, legal authority, and commitment to effectively use MCSAP funds to address the commercial motor vehicle safety concerns that exist in the State. These requirements are enumerated in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 49, Part 350. The FMCSA State Programs Division has the primary responsibility of managing and administering the MCSAP in coordination with the FMCSA Service Centers and Division Offices. In this capacity, the FMCSA is responsible for promulgating regulations; developing regulatory guidance, policy, procedures and methodologies; providing direction, resources, and technical expertise; providing training, and reviewing programs to verify compliance with Federal requirements.

2.0

2.0 CONTRACT OBJECTIVES The principal purpose of this procurement is to obtain contract support to conduct thorough off-site regulatory reviews of all commercial motor vehicle safety regulations in each State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to document variations from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSR) and the Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations (HMR). The objective of the Regulatory Review is to determine if the State laws and regulations are in compliance with the provisions of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 and the implementing MCSAP regulations in 49 CFR Part 350 ­ Commercial Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program, and to document any variances discovered in each State.

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 2 of 8

3.0

3.0 SCOPE The principal task of this procurement is the completion of regulatory reviews of State MCSAP safety regulations to document State regulatory variances from Federal requirements. It includes a variety of tangential activities to be conducted in order to prepare for the reviews and report the results of the review. The scope of each regulatory review will be limited to the MCSAP compatibility requirements found in 49 CFR Part 350. The contractor will compare the most current State adoption of commercial vehicle safety laws and regulations to the most recently released version of the FMCSR/HMR for both interstate and intrastate commerce. Since the inception of the MCSAP National Management and Performance Review Program (MCSAP Review) in 2006, at least 29 States that receive MCSAP funds have already had regulatory reviews conducted. Therefore, under this SOW the contractor is required to complete an initial regulatory review of each participating MCSAP jurisdiction that has not received, nor is scheduled to receive, a regulatory review (at time of award) under the MCSAP Review program within the base period of performance (i.e., one year from date of award). FMCSA will provide to the contractor copies of the results of each State regulatory review already completed during previously-conducted MCSAP Reviews. FMCSA will also provide copies of previously scheduled MCSAP regulatory reviews to the contractor within 30 days of completion under the MCSAP Review program. In order to avoid duplication of effort, no regulatory reviews conducted under this contract are to be completed on a State or territory if that State or territory has already received a regulatory review under the MCSAP Review program. However, in certain instances (i.e., MCSAP reviews conducted more than one year ago), an update of that regulatory review may be required, after consultation with, and approval from, the FMCSA contracting officer's technical representative (COTR). With prior approval from the COTR, the contractor may contact a FMCSA Division office or State MCSAP partner to verify or ask questions regarding regulatory review information but the contractor will not ask FMCSA Division offices to collect any substantial information on its behalf for tasks required under this contract.

Task A-CONDUCT OFF-SITE REGULATORY REVIEWS The contractor shall assemble a review team to complete off-site MCSAP regulatory reviews of States and U.S. territories that participate in the MCSAP utilizing available online or print resources (e.g., Lexis-Nexis, Westlaw, State websites, etc.). The team will be composed of qualified individuals who possess the knowledge and skills necessary to effectively conduct the reviews and meet the objectives of this effort. The contractor shall be responsible for conducting an in-depth, detailed analysis of each States' CMV safety regulations to document the current variances from existing Federal regulations. Therefore, the contractor support staff must include individuals that have extensive knowledge of the FMCSRs, HMRs, and State CMV safety regulations. Specifically, the regulatory review involves the following metrics:

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 3 of 8 

Comparing State commercial vehicle safety laws and regulations with equivalent Federal regulations (FMCSRs and HMRs) as required under MCSAP for both interstate and intrastate commerce. Documenting State variations from the FMCSRs and HMRs. Determining the date when State variations, if any, went into effect.

 

Task B-DEVELOP STATE VARIANCE TRACKING DATABASE The contractor shall develop an electronic tracking database:  A relational database to record and track all regulatory variances, if any, in each State and U.S. territory that participates in the MCSAP.

The relational database shall contain lists of State variances that will relate these elements and allow for the tracking of these items. For example, regulatory variances will be recorded by State as they are discovered during each States' review. The database must be able to be sorted by specific section of the FMCSRs and HMRs in addition to being able to be sorted by State. The Federal Government shall retain full ownership in all tracking systems and databases developed under this contract. The contractor will provide routine updates throughout the performance period as technology changes. 3.1 3.1 Deliverables: Written items: a. List of Review Team members ­ within five days after initial meeting. b. State Variance Tracking Database - that details each State's regulatory compliance status. It shall contain findings of all State-specific variances discovered in each State's laws or regulations as compared with the FMCSRs or HMRs. The variance information provided by FMCSA to the contractor from the previously conducted regulatory reviews is sufficient to allow the contractor to sufficiently perform the work requirements under this SOW. c. Final Variance Report The contractor shall provide a draft Report to the COTR within thirty (30) days after completion of all of the reviews of each State and U.S. Territories. The Final Regulatory Review Report will consist of the following elements:  Executive Summary

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 4 of 8  

Consolidated findings from the Regulatory Review conducted for each State Detailed Regulatory Review

The contractor shall provide paper and electronic (e.g., MS Word, Excel, Access) copies of each item that shall be 99% free of errors. If separate analytical products are developed, they shall be delivered in MS Excel or Access. All files transmitted via e-mail must not exceed 5 MB per message attachment. Files that are larger than 5MB shall be transmitted via FTP or other method to be determined in consultation with the COTR. The final deliverables shall also be provided on a compact disc(s).

4.0

Key Personnel The following individuals have been designated as key personnel under the contract:   Program Manager Legal Researcher

In the event that any key personnel become unavailable to continue in the performance of this contract, the appointment of a replacement of equal or higher qualifications shall be subject to the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. The Government has the right to request the Contractor for immediate substitution of personnel if the COTR finds that the assigned individual does not perform or produce the expected outputs. 4.1 Labor Categories Project Manager

Qualifications: Bachelor's Degree and 10 years of general motor carrier and at least 5 years of state transportation regulations and federal compliance experience. Description: Strong background in transportation business and management. Serves as the senior director and principal interface between program office and the project. Possesses in-depth project knowledge of the subject area. Responsible for meeting costs, schedules, and performance objectives. Supervises task personnel, reviews deliverables to make sure that the SOW requirements are adhered to. Oversees project assessments and client feedback. Excellent communicator who demonstrates strong facilitation and crossfunctional team skills. Responsible for handling the day to day management and administration of project tasks. Develops detailed work plans and schedules in response to support service requests. Assigns staff responsibilities and supervises all staff efforts. Utilizes, maintains control over, and redirects available resources as necessary to complete tasking in accordance with scheduled milestones and budgetary constraints. Performs quality checks of all

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 5 of 8

work products. Interacts continually with government technical representatives to present interim results, discuss concerns, and ensure total product/service satisfaction. Assists, coordinates with and supports the Program Manager. Stays informed of the dayto-day status of the program, projects, and staff. Writer
Bachelor's Degree, Associate Degree with minimum of 3-5 years of writing experience.

Prepares and edits documentation incorporating information provided by specialists and analysts. Duties include the writing, editing, and graphic presentation of technical information for both technical and non-technical personnel. Interprets technical documentation standards and prepares documentation according to defined standards. Is expected to communicate effectively in writing and orally with all levels of technical and management personnel, as required. Maintains version control over documents and supporting graphics. Designs and updates communications programs/plans in support of clients. Supports preparation of various types of publications by integrating original writing with inputs from technical and non-technical professionals. Analyzes industry standards and interprets client requirements for documentation. Researches technical information, and rewrites it for clarity and readability. Proofreads and performs editorial reviews on all forms of technical documentation. Legal Researcher Minimum of 1 Year Litigation Support Experience. Undergraduate Degree Reference and Research Services, including knowledge of methodologies for identification and use of sources for legal research. Expertise in independent research of legal, legislative, regulatory and enforcement information. Excellent written and oral communication skills. Excellent research and analytical skills. Highly proficient with online research tools, such as Westlaw and Lexis. Proficient with computer databases, spreadsheets and word processing. Responsible for legal research and interpretation on Federal and State (motor carrier) regulations, drafting of legal documents and understanding complex legal issues. Knowledge and competency in database management, including systems of national and state statutory and regulatory materials. Ability to classify materials in a variety of formats so as to be easily identified by and accessible to users. Ability to manage or perform complex or specialized systematic investigative research. Consult prescribed sources of information for facts relating to matters of interest to the program. Reviews documents to extract selected data and information.
4.2 Protection of Information/Privacy Act

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 6 of 8

The Contractor shall be granted access to information protected under the Privacy Act. The Contractor and its employees shall safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or dissemination in accordance with the law and Government policy and regulation. The Contractor shall agree to comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (the Act) and the agency rules and regulations issued under the Act in the design, development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function. 4.3 Intellectual property All Contractor developed data, software, database, processes and procedures and other forms of intellectual property developed under this contract shall be delivered with unlimited rights. Delivery of data may be required.

All documentation, photography and electronic data and information collected or prepared by the Contractor in the performance of this Contract shall be delivered to the Federal Government with unlimited rights.
4.3.1 Data Rights

The recipient shall make available to the Government copies of all work developed in performance of this contract, including but not limited to software and data. The Government and others acting on its behalf shall have unlimited rights in perpetuity to obtain, reproduce, publish or otherwise use the data developed in the performance of this contract pursuant to 49 CFR Part 19.36. The FMCSA will retain residual and technical rights to all documents, procedures, software and other products developed under this contract. 4.4 Section 508 Compliance All electronic information technology developed under this contract, including without limitation, a web page site for data information exchange, must be section 508 compliant. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended, requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, they must ensure that it is accessible to people with disabilities, unless it would pose an undue burden to do so. Federal employees and members of the public who have disabilities must have access to and use of information and services that is comparable to the access and use available to non-disabled Federal employees and members of the public.
FMCSA has determined that the following accessibility standards (36 CFR Part 1194) apply to this procurement under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems: Provisions 1194.21a through 1194.21l 1194.22 Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications: Provisions 1194.22a through 1194.22p Functional Performance Criteria: 1194.31a through 1194.31f Information, Documentation and Support: 1194.41a through 1194.41c

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 7 of 8

(Attached at Section J) The contractor shall deliver products and/or services that provide the features described in the above standards, or equivalent salient characteristics. Additionally, the contractor shall provide product support documentation and services (i.e. help desk and training) in alternate formats in order to accommodate end users with disabilities. Contractor conformance with this requirement is a material term of the contract.

4.5 Project Plan/Kick-off Meeting The Contractor shall attend a "Kick-Off Meeting" with the COTR no later than 14 days after the date of award. The Contractor shall provide a draft Project Plan at the Kick-Off Meeting for the Government to review and comment. The purpose of the Kick-Off Meeting shall be to discuss technical and contracting objectives of this contract and review the Contractor's draft project plan. The Contractor shall provide a final Project Plan to the COTR not later than 2 months after the contract award. 4.6 Monthly Status Reports The Contractor shall provide a Monthly Status Report delivered to the COTR electronically by the fifteenth day of each calendar month. The Project Manager shall provide a monthly progress report to the CO and COTR via electronic mail. The report shall include a summary of all Contractor work performed on a task-by-task basis, deliverables completed, an assessment of technical progress, schedule status, any travel anticipated and taken, and any Contractor concerns or recommendations for the previous or upcoming period. 4.7 Progress Meetings At the COTR's discretion the PM shall meet with the COTR monthly to evaluate the contractor's performance and deliverables. A mutual effort will be made to resolve all problems identified during these meetings. A Contractor's Discrepancy Report (CDR) may dictate more frequent meetings during the performance period.

4.8 Close-out Meeting and Lessons Learned Document The Contractor shall attend a Close-Out Meeting with the COTR no earlier than 1 month before contract expiration. The purpose of the Close-Out Meeting shall be to discuss lessons learned by the Contractor and by the COTR regarding the Quality Assurance (QA) review of FMCSA field enforcement processes in general. The Contractor shall produce a Lessons Learned Document due by the last day of the contract to cover areas of Future improvement in the Quality Assurance (QA) review process.

Attachment 1 U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Solicitation No. DTMC75-09-R-00038 Page 8 of 8

4.9 Packaging and Marking All written reports shall be submitted in accordance with Section 3.0. 5.0 Period of Performance
The period of performance of this contract shall consist of a base period of 12 months, with 4 oneyear option periods. The Government reserves the right to exercise none, some or all of the option periods at its discretion.

Example of Regulatory Findings ­ MCSAP State Review conducted in FY2009
GA/FL-1.

49 CFR 350.201(a) ­ Compatible Adoption and Enforcement ­ The State does not appropriately adopt and enforce State safety laws and regulations that are fully compatible with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSRs) and Hazardous Materials Regulations (HMRs) as specified below. The definition section of Title 46 of the State Code (O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1) effectively excludes certain intrastate motor carrier operations from Chapter 1 of the Rulebook, i.e., Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (see O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1(9)(c)). Most of these exclusions either are consistent with exclusions contained in 49 CFR Part 390 or are specific industry exceptions, which, according to the State, have been in effect continuously since well before 1988. Therefore, they fall within the tolerance guidelines in 49 CFR 350.341(c). However, there are other exclusions that are incompatible with the FMCSRs for the reasons discussed below. a. 49 CFR Part 390 ­ Exclusion from FMCSRs ­ The State's exclusion from the definitions of "motor common carrier" and "motor contract carrier" in O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1(C)(ii), and referred to in DPS Rule 1-390 of "taxi cabs, drays, trucks, buses, and other motor vehicles which operate within the corporate limits of municipalities and are subject to regulation by the governing authorities of such municipalities" is not compatible with the FMCSRs. Being excluded from the definition of common and contract motor carriers means that the excluded vehicles are not subject to regulations of the DPS applicable to intrastate commerce. The State refers to this exclusion in its self-evaluation (Inventory, Appendix A, Item A-1), and contends that it has been in effect since before 1988, and consequently, falls within the tolerance in 49 CFR 350.341(c). However, 49 CFR 350.341(c) is relevant only if the exclusion applies to specific industries operating in intrastate commerce. The State exclusion in O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1(9)(C)(ii) does not specify an industry and is therefore not within the tolerable exception in 49 CFR 350.341(c). The further limitation in the State law that the exclusion only applies to motor vehicles that are subject to regulation by the municipalities in which they operate is similar to the Federal definition "exempt intracity zones" in 49 CFR 390.5. The Federal definition serves only to equate operations within exempt intracity zones with intrastate commerce and hence not subject to Federal jurisdiction. (Compare State definition at DPS Rule 1-390.5.) For the purpose of MCSAP funding, it is assumed that the State has authority to regulate motor carrier safety in intrastate commerce throughout the State. Excluding motor carrier operations from State regulations is a variance from that

basic assumption, and is not included in the tolerance guidelines in 49 CFR 350.341. Consequently, the exclusion is incompatible. (Per Regulatory Review)
Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed:

b. 49 CFR 390.3(f) and 390.5 ­ Applicability and Definitions ­ The State's definition of "commercial motor vehicle" in DPS Rule 1-390.5 is incompatible with the FMCSRs. DPS Rule 1-390.3(f)(6) provides exceptions for "commercial motor vehicles designed or used to transport between 9 and 16 passengers (including the driver)." The exceptions are identical to those provided in 49 CFR 390.3(f) in the FMCSRs. The identical sets of exceptions are limited so as to require motor carriers operating "such vehicles" to comply with §§ 390.15, 390.19, and 390.21(a) and (b). The DPS Rule 1-390.5 definition of "commercial motor vehicle" does not include vehicles designed or used to transport between 9 and 16 passengers (including the driver), but rather limits the category of passengercarrying vehicles in the commercial motor vehicle (CMV) definition to vehicles "designed or used to transport 16 or more (sic), including the driver." Consequently, vehicles "designed or used to transport between 9 and 16 passengers" are not "commercial motor vehicles" for purposes of applying the DPS regulations, and to this extent, the definition of "commercial motor vehicle" in DPS Rule 1-390.5 is incompatible. (NOTE: The State's statutory definition of "commercial motor vehicle" at O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(8.3) is identical to the Federal definition in 49 CFR 390.5.) (Per Regulatory Review)
Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed: c. 49 CFR 393.42 ­ Brakes required on all wheels ­ The State's DPS Rule 1-393.42(c) requiring operating brakes on at least half of the axles on equipment used to transport houses or buildings is not compatible with 49 CFR 393.42(b)(6), which does not have the same requirement.

DPS Rule 1-393.42(c) requires manufactured houses, other portable buildings, trailers and dollies used in the transport of the houses or

buildings to be equipped with operating brakes on at least half of the axles. The requirement in DPS Rule 1-393.42(c) is more stringent than the comparable Federal rule at 49 CFR 393.42(b)(6), which does not require the axles on specialized trailers or dollies used in housemoving or similar operations to be equipped with brakes, provided the speed and stopping capacity of the combination of vehicles used in the transportation meets the specified standard. The State rule is not limited to intrastate movements and requires the brakes regardless of speed and stopping capacity of the combination of vehicles in use.
The State rule creates a potential burden on interstate commerce and is, therefore, incompatible. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed: d. 49 CFR 393.52 ­ Brake performance ­ State law at O.C.G.A. § 408-53, which sets the standard for brake performance, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.52. The DPS has adopted 49 CFR 393.52 into its Rulebook as 1-393.52, but State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-53 contains a less inclusive standard for required braking capacity. The State law has only two standards: one for vehicles or combination vehicles with brakes on all wheels, and one for vehicles or combination vehicles not having brakes on all wheels. The performance standards in the State law are based on the distance required to stop a vehicle after application of brakes while the vehicle is traveling at 20 miles per hour (mph) (i.e., 30 feet for the first category [brakes on all wheels] and 40 feet for the second [brakes not on all wheels]) and deceleration capacity in feet per second (fps) (i.e., 14 fps in the first category and 10.5 fps in the second category). DPS Rule 1-393.52 and 49 CFR 393.52 separate standards into five categories of vehicles: two standards for passenger-carrying vehicles depending on seating capacity and three standards for propertycarrying vehicles depending on weight and number of units. The standard for the passenger-carrying vehicles in both categories ranges from 20 to 25 feet in stopping distance at 20 mph, and 17 to 21 fps in deceleration capacity. The first two standards in the property-carrying categories are for lighter weight vehicles. For single unit vehicles less than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR), the Federal standard is stopping within 25 feet from a speed of 20 mph and deceleration capacity of 17 fps. For single unit vehicles over 10,000 pounds

GVWR, except truck tractors, the standard is stopping within 35 feet from a speed of 20 mph and deceleration capacity of 14 fps. The third standard is for all other property-carrying vehicles or combination vehicles. The third standard category, which includes all propertycarrying vehicles in combinations over 10,000 pounds GVWR, is 40 feet of stopping distance when brakes are applied at 20 mph and 14 fps in deceleration capacity. The Federal standards also include a third performance standard, which is based on braking force as a percentage of GVWR or gross combination weight rating (GCWR), which is absent from the State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-53. Although there is relatively little difference in the State's statutory standard, when considering only the "all-other" category of the Federal standard, it is the absence of more representative categories and a braking force standard in the State statute that is incompatible. See Recommendation 2 below. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed: e. 49 CFR 393.60 ­ Glazing in specified openings ­ State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-73.1(b) regarding tinting standards, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.60. While DPS rule 1-393.60 is identical to 49 CFR 393.60, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-73.1(b), which applies to all motor vehicles in The State, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.60 in the standard for tinting the windshield and side windows. The State law allows no diminution in the parallel luminous transmission through the windshield from coloring or tinting, while the Federal rules allow tinting so long as luminous transmission remains at no less than 70 percent of normal. The application of the standard is not limited to intrastate commerce so it could have an adverse effect on interstate commerce, and it is, therefore, incompatible. The statutory standard in the State allows tinting of side windows so long as the luminous transmission through the window is no less than 32 percent of normal. The limit of the Federal standard is no less than 70 percent of normal. In this case, the State statutory standard is less stringent than the Federal, does not fall within the tolerance guidelines in 49 CFR 350.341, and is, therefore, incompatible. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date:

Date Completed: f. 49 CFR 393.75 ­ Tires ­ State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-74, which sets the standard for tire treads, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.75. DPS Rule 1-393.75 and 49 CFR 393.75 both set the standard for minimum tread depth of the tires on the front wheels of a bus, truck, or truck tractor at 4/32 of an inch and 2/32 of an inch on other tires. State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-74 sets the standard for all tire treads at 2/32 of an inch, except for school buses. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed: g. 49 CFR 393.80 ­ Rear-vision mirrors ­ State law at O.C.G.A. §40-872, which only requires one rear-view mirror, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.80. Although DPS Rule 1-393.80 is identical to 49 CFR 393.80 in the FMCSRs, requiring all trucks, truck tractors, and buses to be equipped with two rear-vision mirrors, one at each side, State law at O.C.G.A. §40-8-72 only requires one rear-vision mirror. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date: Date Completed: h. 49 CFR 393.87 ­ Warning flags on projecting loads ­ State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-27(a), which only requires one 12-inch square flag, is incompatible with 49 CFR 393.87. Although DPS Rule 1-393.87 is identical to 49 CFR 393.87 regarding the number, size, and location of warning flags on projecting loads, State law at O.C.G.A. § 40-8-27(a) is incompatible because it requires only one 12-inch square flag, where 49 CFR 393.87 requires two 18inch square flags. (Per Regulatory Review) Action Plan: Estimated Completion Date:

Date Completed:

FMCSA Responses to Contractor Questions ­ Regulatory Variance Tracking System DTMC75-09-R-00038

1) What initial regulatory reviews have been completed? FMCSA has completed 32 State MCSAP regulatory reviews to date.

2) Of the initial regulatory reviews completed, which ones have been completed more than 12 months ago? Of the 32 reviews completed, 20 were completed more than 12 months ago.

3) Will the completed initial regulatory reviews be delivered as a database, electronic, or hard copy? If database or electronic, what file format and layout? The completed reviews will be delivered as a report, electronically, in Microsoft Word format.

4) Could you provide one example of an initial regulatory review so that we can understand the government's expectation for such reviews? If not, can you describe the contents of an initial regulatory review document? Sample provided as attachment.

5) How and by whom do you envision using the state variance tracking database? Within the government, MCSAP states, or as public domain on the FMCSA website? FMCSA headquarters and division employees.

6) What states, territories, and possessions participate in the MCSAP? All States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Territories participate in MCSAP.

7) Is the state variance tracking database to be provided in MS Word, Excel, and/or Access format, as well as the regulatory reviews?

MS Access database format.

8) Does an interface need to be created to access the database? If yes: o Is the vendor responsible for this? o What type of interface is expected? No, an interface is not expected.

9) How often must the state variance tracking occur? (daily, monthly, etc.) How does the government envision receipt of the subsequently updated database? We do not expect to update the state entries in the variance tracking database more than once per year.

10) Will the government want to be able to add to or maintain the database? If so, describe. Yes, the government will want the ability to update the entries in the Access database as it acquires new or updated information on each State's regulatory findings in the future. 11) Must the state variance tracking database be available through a website? If yes, where? No, that is not expected.

12) Are routine updates expected based on technology changes expected more than semi-annually? If so, how often? No, not more than semi-annually.

13) Describe the purpose and objectives of the Final Variance Report. It should provide a current listing of the regulatory variances by State, thereby allowing FMCSA staff to understand where the State commercial motor vehicle regulations differ from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations so that we can assess the overall regulatory compatibility of the State with MCSAP regulations.

14) The third regulatory review metric requires determination of the date when State variations, if any, went into effect. Many of these variations are the result of inaction as opposed to action by a state. In other words, at some point in time Part 350 or other MCSAP guidance changed and the state never updated its regulations/rules in order to meet the new requirement. Because of this it may be difficult to pinpoint an exact date in all cases of variation. Would the contractor be allowed to contact a state and ask for a date a regulation variance went into effect? What would be the contractor's authority for making a request such as this? What type of documentation of the date would be required? Yes, the contractor would be authorized to contact the relevant FMCSA division and work with FMCSA Division staff to contact State officials to acquire this information, if available.

15) Would a source like Lexis-Nexis be acceptable as documentation or must an official state source be consulted and listed? Similarly, if a state does not consider its website to be an "official" source, must an "official" source be consulted and documented? While information from Lexis-Nexis would generally be considered to be reliable, such information should be validated by an official source at the State. This can be done through FMCSA division offices as part of the data validation phase prior to the information being considered final. 16) In some cases, a state may have adopted the requirement but then have a conflicting law/regulation in another section. If the state has adopted the requirement, should the contractor stop there? This will need to be determined on a case-by-case basis after the project is begun.

17) Why does the CLIN list contain quantity of hours per labor category if this is to be a firm fixed price contract? This will be a Firm Fixed-Price contract. The Rate and Hours will be used as a tool to determine fair and reasonable.

18) The CLIN list contains an item for a license fee. What does the Government expect to license?

Price Proposal list revised to remove licensing fee. The government does anticipate the successful awardee will grant unequivocal relinquishment of the data rights and source codes permitted in the FAR.

19) Who or what organization conducted the already-completed MCSAP reviews? Is there a current or recently expired contract for these services in place? Assuming the FMCSA Acquisitions Office believes this information can be released, then there is a current contract team in place for the MCSAP Reviews, lead by SAIC as the prime, with the North American Driver Safety Foundation as the subcontractor. That contract remains in place at present.

20) Is this a new acquisition? This is a new acquisition, based on the fact that FMCSA is interested in getting a complete regulatory review conducted of all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories completed within the next 12 months, since the MCSAP Reviews will not be complete until approximately 24 months or more from now.

21) What is the time line for evaluation and award? FMCSA expects to review bids, and to execute and award the contract by September 30, 2009. 22) Will we receive answers to these questions at least 3 business days prior to the current closing date of 14 September 2009, 1400 hours? If not, will the closing date be extended? The solicitation is extended to Tuesday September 15, 2009 @ 1530.

