


                                                                Statement of Work

                                                          FDA Drug Interaction Database




1. Background


 In March of 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released a white paper entitled “Innovation or Stagnation: Challenge and
Opportunity on the Critical Path to New Medical Products.” 1  This report called for research to develop and validate new tools and methods for
testing new medicines on the “critical path” from the laboratory to the patients.

In FDA's view, the applied sciences needed for medical product development have not kept pace with the tremendous advances in the basic
sciences.  The new science is not being used to guide the technology development process in the same way that it is accelerating the technology
discovery process.  For medical technology, performance is measured in terms of product safety and effectiveness.  Not enough applied scientific
work has been done to create new tools to get fundamentally better answers about how the safety and effectiveness of new products can be
demonstrated, in faster time frames, with more certainty, and at lower costs.  In many cases, developers have no choice but to use the tools and
concepts of the last century to assess this century's candidates.  As a result, the vast majority of investigational products that enter
clinical trials fail.  Often, product development programs shall be abandoned after extensive investment of time and resources.  This high
failure rate drives up costs, and developers are forced to use the profits from a decreasing number of successful products to subsidize a
growing number of expensive failures.  Finally, the path to market even for successful candidates is long, costly, and inefficient, due in large
part to the current reliance on cumbersome assessment methods.

1 “Innovation or Stagnation: Challenge and Opportunity on the Critical Path to New      Medical Products,”
 www.fda.gov/oc/initiatives/criticalpath/whitepaper.html
This report1 also identified the need to build a new product development toolkit -- containing powerful new scientific and technical methods
such as better evaluation tools, biomarkers for safety and effectiveness, and new clinical evaluation techniques. The agency sees these tools as
urgently needed to improve predictability and efficiency along the critical path from laboratory concept to commercial product to ensure that
basic discoveries turn into new and better medical treatments.
2. Context of Work/Public Health Benefit
Recognizing the importance of having better evaluation tools, FDA cited development of these tools in its critical path document.

Concomitant medications can alter drug disposition abruptly and are of particular concern. Therefore, adequate assessment of the safety and
effectiveness of a drug includes a description of its drug interaction (DDI) potential and the FDA has provided recommendations on the study
design, data analysis, and labeling language.

Because increasing numbers of DDI studies have been submitted by sponsors, it is critical to establish an internal drug-interaction database.
The in-house database shall serves as a knowledge base for reviewers to readily retrieve and evaluate DDI information submitted at different
stages (IND and NDA).  Data from the in-house database can also be evaluated along with that of marketed drugs.

We propose to create an internal DDI database.  The structure and search process of this internal database need to meet the following criteria:
(1) easy to be performed by FDA reviewers who routinely evaluate Both in vitro and in vivo drug interaction studies from sponsors’ submissions,
(2) familiar to reviewers who routinely use commercially available database housing the public data on in vitro and in vivo drug interaction
studies, and (3) easy for reviewers to compare internal data and public data.




3. Scope of Work


3.1. General

The contractor/vendor shall work with the Office of Clinical Pharmacology (OCP) to develop any necessary elements to deploy the IT
infrastructure of the drug interaction database.  The anticipated IT infrastructure is envisioned to be a secure local application (SLA) similar
to the web-based University of Washington Drug-drug interaction database (UWDIDB, www.druginteractioninfo.org).  The UWDIDB has been used by OCP
reviewers for more than eight (8) years to search and analyze published drug-drug interaction data.  The final development site (e.g., SLA)
shall be available only to OCP reviewers to input confidential information that is related to, but not limited to, study design, experimental
condition, clinical trial information, study results, comments/discussions, and hyperlink to the original results in FDA secure database (e.g.,
EDR, DARRTS).

3.2. Place of Performance

Development work under this contract shall be performed at the Contractor/vendor’s facility. The vendor shall help OCP to setup the target
infrastructure and help OCP personnel to deploy the source code to the target infrastructure via teleconferencing and/or webinars.

3.3. Location of the System
The system shall remain locally within OCP during the development phase and after the completion of the development.  The contractor/vendor
shall only perform planned maintenance and technical support to the general structure of the IT infrastructure (e.g., secure local application)
without having access to its content (more details see 4.4. below).


3.4. Government Furnished Property (GFP)





The FDA shall not provide laptops or key fobs to the contractor/vendor for network access. The contractor/vendor shall not have network access
to the FDA network. All support shall be provided via phone, webinar, or onsite visit.





   5.  Government Furnished Information


FDA shall not provide the contractor/vendor with actual FDA data or any sensitive government information. The contractor/vendor shall use the
existing vitro and in vivo drug interaction studies data in development and testing, which is generally available via UWDIDB. The actual data
shall be entered by OCP personnel once the infrastructure is established. The work is anticipated to be completed with a base year of twelve
(12) months.


4. Work Requirement

The contractor/vendor is expected to deploy an IT infrastructure for FDA internal DDI database by directly working with FDA OCP.  The
contractor/vendor and OCP shall have initial meeting to specify standard operating procedures for the work and define detailed time lines. The
contractor/vendor shall provide necessary trainings and maintenance up on the completion of the deployment.




4.1. Architecture Standards Requirement


The design of the DIDB shall follow FDA ICT-21 three-tier architecture standards (presentation, application and data).



4.2. Technical Standards Requirement


Any software required on FDA client computers, or in FDA data centers, shall not conflict with FDA technical standards. Software that is
required as part of the solution design that is not already approved for use within FDA shall be evaluated by the FDA IT Investment Management
(ITIM) governance process (See 4.3).  The FDA approved hardware and software shall be provided to the contractor/vendor to deploy the required
IT infrastructure.





4.3. Proposed Architecture and High-Level Design


The proposed high-level solution design of the internal database shall include:


         • Proposed application architecture


         • Proposed technical architecture and hardware


         • Network methodology - type of network that shall be established


         • Other software – other software that shall be used such as MS SQL Server, IIS, ASP, and other applications that shall be used on
           servers, workstations, and network devices


         • Network diagrams – that shows device interconnectivity


         • Data flow diagram(s) – that show how data provided by FDA shall enter the system, be processed, stored, and sent back to the FDA, if
           applicable, etc


      The actual proposed development shall be reviewed by the FDA IT Investment Management (ITIM) governance process, specifically by the
      Division of Security, Infrastructure, and Systems.



4.4. Production Maintenance and Support


At a minimal, the contractor/vendor shall describe the following:


         • Patch management - procedures, practices, and schedule


         • Change control / change management procedures


         • Roles and Responsibilities of users and systems administrators of the system.


         • Computer Incident Response & Reporting practices and procedures.


         • Security controls - employed to protect systems in accordance with FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-53, revision 3.


         • Disaster Recovery Plan and procedures – employed to recover data in accordance with NIST SP 800-34, June 2002

The contractor/vendor shall only perform planned maintenance and technical support to the general structure of the IT infrastructure (e.g.,
secure local application) without having access to its content.  When necessary, published data can be used as an example for testing the
system, which can be extracted from publically available DIDB.



4.5. Security Requirement

The contractor/vendor shall not have access to FDA internal database.  The database is accessed by OCP reviewers only, using secure log-in name
and password.

Detail Requirements
      • The contractor/vendor shall not transfer sensitive information from any Government system to the contractor’s/vendor’s system(s).


      • The contractor/vendor shall not transfer any electronic system or data from the contractor’s/vendor’s system(s) to Government systems
        through any equipment that FDA may supply in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration
        Staff Manual Guide 3250 Information Technology Security. All contractor/vendor personnel shall posses at least a DHHS Level 1 (Public
        Trust) security clearance and shall sign a non-disclosure agreement.
      • Data Security Assurances:
         o If a temporary data-sharing repository outside of the FDA is created during the conversion process to organize and control access to
           the scientific data, appropriate security requirements shall be implemented, such as system access being limited to appropriate
           credentialing of authorized users, authority checks to verify that only authorized users can use the system to add, alter, delete
           and/or electronically sign a record.
         o Information systems or applications that are purchased or developed to store or process federal information shall comply with Federal
           and FDA circulars, directives, executive orders, guidelines and regulations.
         o All systems or applications that shall process or store federal information shall be certified and accredited with an Authorization
           to Operate (ATO) by the FDA Designated Approval Authority (DAA) prior to system operation.
         o System Security Plan – If the contractor/vendor processes and/or stores sensitive information as part of the contract, the
           contractor/vendor shall develop and deliver a system security plan (SSP).
         o Media Sanitation Plan - If the contractor/vendor processes and/or stores sensitive information as part of the contract, the
           contractor/vendor shall develop and deliver a Media Sanitation Plan in accordance with NIST SP 800-88, Revision.
      • This contract requires the contractor/vendor pursuant to Federal and HHS Information Security Program Policies, and any subcontractor
        performing under this contract to comply with the following requirements:
         o Contractor/vendor-Employee Non-Disclosure Agreements
           Each contractor/vendor/subcontractor employee who may have access to non-public Department information under this contract shall
           complete the Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information – Contractor Agreement which is located in Section J. A copy of each signed
           and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer prior to performing any work under the contract
         o Confidential Treatment of Sensitive Information
           The contractor/vendor shall guarantee strict confidentiality of the information/data that it is provided by the Government during the
           performance of any task order issued under this contract.
           The Government shall determine that the information/data that the contractor/vendor shall be provided during the performance of the
           contract is of a sensitive or of pre-decisional nature




           Disclosure of the information/data, in whole or in part, by the contractor/vendor can only be made after the contractor/vendor
           receives prior written approval from the Contracting Officer or designee (e.g., COTR). Whenever the contractor/vendor is uncertain
           with regard to the proper handling of information/data under the contract, the contractor/vendor shall obtain a written determination
           from the Contracting Officer or designee (e.g., COTR)
         o contractor/vendor and Subcontractor Staff
         o The contractor/vendor shall submit a roster, by name, position and responsibility, of all staff (including subcontractor/vendor
           staff) working under task orders of this contract. The roster submitted to FDA shall be submitted to the COTR, with a copy to the
           Contracting Officer, within 2 business weeks of the effective date of the contract.

4.6.  508 Compliance Requirement

This project is required to be Section 508 Compliant (http://www.hhs.gov/od/508policy/508_policy.html#21SummaryofSection508Requirements).
Appendix 1 shows an example of 508 Compliance statement.

5. Deliverables and Timeline


5.1. Tracking
OCP shall track the use of the database.  Hits/month shall be monitored.

5.2. Timeline

September 15, 2010:
 • Kick-off meeting: discuss the logistics of the development of DDI database within FDA

October 1, 2010 – April 30, 2011
 • Establish platform and deploy on OCP server

October 1, 2010 – August 31, 2011
 • Provide monthly user trainings to OCP reviewers on data entry and data search.  Training can be via web conference.
 • Make database available for reviewers for data collection from IND and NDA submissions and data search
 • Evaluate the potential to merge with drug interaction database housing public information
 • Continue to collect drug interaction data from IND and NDA submissions

5.3. Criteria for Acceptance

The acceptance of deliverable and satisfactory work performance required herein shall be based upon the timeliness (see 5.2) and the
completeness of the deployment of the IT infrastructure on OCP local server.

Appendix 1.

Contractor/vendor sample in response of the government proposal

(a) The contractor/vendor represents by signing this offer that the supplies and services offered in response to this solicitation, except for
those identified in paragraph (b), comply fully with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194.  (See The
Section 508 Standards Page).  Each supply or service that shall not be totally compliant at time of delivery or is only partially compliant is
listed in paragraph (b).

 (b) All noncompliant and partially compliant supplies or services are listed below.  In addition, for each supply or service that is not in
full compliance, or is partially compliant, a detailed discussion of which standards are satisfied and which standards are not satisfied by the
offered supply or service is included.  Also, any qualifications or conditions that might affect compliance with Section 508 of the proposed
supplies or services are described. The list shall be kept current during the period of performance.

