SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. SOLICITATION NO.

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION

RATING

PAGE

OF PAGES

1
5. DATE ISSUED

80

2013-N-15006
CODE 436 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Acquisition Branch 4 P O Box 18070 - 626 Cochrans Mill Road Pittsburgh PA 15236-0070 7. ISSUED BY

SEALED BID (IFB)

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

X NEGOTIATED (RFP) Same as Item 7

03/25/13

000HCCHD-2013-56852

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

Approved as to Form and Legality: _____________________________

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder."

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and five (5) copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if nd handcarried, in the depository located in CDC Acq Br 4 626 Cochrans Mill Road B-140 2 Floor until 3:30PM local time 04/24/13
(Hour) (Date)

CAUTION -- LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. 10. FOR INFORMATION CALL: (x)
A. NAME

John J. Carolan
DESCRIPTION
PART I ­ THE SCHEDULE

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) AREA CODE NUMBER: EXT: (412) 386-6430

C.

E-MAIL ADDRESS

JCAROLAN@CDC.GOV
DESCRIPTION PAGE(S)

SEC. A B C D E F G H

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE(S) (x) SEC.

PART II ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES

X X X X X X X X

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2 3 10 11 12 17 23

X X

I J

CONTRACT CLAUSES LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
PART IV ­ REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

31 40 41 45 57

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

X X X

K K L M

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror) NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.
12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT
(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8) 10 CALENDAR DAYS 20 CALENDAR DAYS 30 CALENDAR DAYS CALENDAR DAYS

%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:
CODE 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR 15B. TELEPHONE NO. AREA CODE NUMBER

FACILITY

16. NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or Print)

EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

10 U.S.C. 2304(c)(

)

41 U.S.C. 253(c)(

)

23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

ITEM

CODE 436 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Acquisition Branch 4 P O Box 18070 - 626 Cochrans Mill Road Pittsburgh PA 15236-0070 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) 26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

CODE 434 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Financial Management Office - P O Box 15580 Atlanta GA 30333 27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (Signature of Contracting Officer) 28. AWARD DATE

IMPORTANT -- Award will be made on this form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS UNUSABLE STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214Š

Page 2 of 80

Section B - Supplies Or Services And Prices/Costs
Base Award Period / Base Award Contract Year 1 Through Year 4 Items: ITEM 0001 SUPPLIES / SERVICES Development of Updated Program to Train and Certify Physicians as Competent to Use the International Labour Office Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses in Digital Format in Accordance with the Enclosed Statement of Work QTY / UNIT 1 Each UNIT PRICE $ EXTENDED PRICE $

Total Firm Fixed Price

Option 1 Period / Option Contract Year 5 Items: ITEM 0002 SUPPLIES / SERVICES B Reader Digital Training and Certification Program Maintenance and Upgrades - May be Needed Based on Feedback Received During the Implementation of the Training Program and Examinations. Work will be Documented by Semi-Annual Reports and Monthly Phone Calls with the COTR. QTY / UNIT 1 Each UNIT PRICE $ EXTENDED PRICE $

Total Firm Fixed Price

B.1 Type of Contract (Apr 1984) This is a firm-fixed-price contract.

Page 3 of 80

Section C - Description/Specification/Work Statement
The services contemplated under this contract are considered to be a Critical Function to inherently governmental work as defined by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy in OFPP letter 11-01 and by HHS in Acquisition Policy Memorandum 2012-01. Development of Updated Program to Train and Certify Physicians as Competent to use the International Labour Office International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses in Digital Format Purpose: The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) maintains the "B Reader" program to train, test and certify physicians as competent in the use of the International Labour Office (ILO) system for classifying the presence and severity of findings on chest images associated with pneumoconiosis. In the past, this system used only older film-based chest radiography. However, the system was recently updated to enable use of modern digital chest imaging. The purpose of this contract is to update the B Reader training and certification program. The contractor will work with NIOSH to identify and prioritize important specific competencies needed by B Readers; develop a training program that includes educational content in digital format to achieve necessary competencies; develop companion testing materials for initial certification and recertification ("B Reader examinations"), also in digital format, that reliably document t he achievement of necessary knowledge and ability to accurately classify chest images using the ILO system; and provide a system for monitoring the performance of the examination and improving it, as necessary. Thus, the contractor will provide a complete, coordinated update to the B Reader training and certification program and will provide technical support to NIOSH staff for the successful initial implementation thereof. Background and need: Chest radiography is a widely applied and important tool for assessing lung health in clinical care, surveillance, research and hazard evaluations of workers exposed to respirable silica, asbestos, coal, beryllium, and other hazardous dusts. Collectively, these dust-induced diseases are called pneumoconioses. The International Labour Office (ILO) International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses provides a standardized system for classification of chest radiographs that has been widely used by physicians and epidemiologic researchers in the investigation of work-related respiratory hazards. For the last four decades, NIOSH has been training physicians and certifying competence in the use of the ILO system to classify film-based chest radiographs. Physicians who pass a rigorous standardized examination offered by NIOSH are designated as B Readers. Physician test candidates usually prepare by reviewing the "NIOSH Study Syllabus for Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconiosis," which includes explanatory text and a set of chest radiographs demonstrating a range of findings. To remain certified, every four years the physician must pass a less extensive recertification examination. B Readers are employed by NIOSH to classify all chest radiographs of underground coal miners that are taken as part of the federally-mandated Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program (CWHSP) (42CFR37). Classification of radiographs by B Readers is also described for radiographic health surveillance of workers potentially exposed to asbestos under the OSHA asbestos standard (29CFR1910.100). B Readers may also be used to classify chest radiographs obtained for monitoring health of workers potentially exposed to various workplace agents that may cause radiographically-apparent lung abnormalities, and such classifications are also widely used for research studies. Additionally, the opinions of B Readers regarding the presence and severity of chest radiographic findings are often considered in compensation cases and other administrative and legal proceedings. Educational and testing materials currently used by the B Reader program include a training syllabus, an initial certification examination and a re-certification examination. The syllabus is a self-study, pre-test preparation tool composed of 80 film radiographs, 33 pages of text, and 51 reading sheets with correct answer keys (according to a panel of experts). The current initial B reader certification examination has 125 chest radiographs and requires the candidate to complete the classifications in 6 hours. The recertification examination requires classification of 50 radiographs during a 3 hour examination period. The examinations are significantly weighted toward coal workers' pneumoconiosis (small pneumoconiotic opacities) with over 50% of the films depicting category 1/0 or greater. In the initial certification exam, there are 15 films showing large opacities and 10 films demonstrating diseases other than pneumoconiosis. The present scoring system for the initial certification examination is divided into six sections: three dealing with small opacities, one with large opacities, one with pleural abnormalities, and one with other abnormalities. For the recertification exam, the grading is basically the same with the exclusion of the section

Page 4 of 80

on other abnormalities. A grading weight is assigned to each section. Details on the current examination process are found in the article by Wagner et al.1 The current examinations do not clearly identify certain skills, such as the ability to classify pleural abnormalities. Given demands for asbestos-related medical surveillance, this and other core competencies are more important now than when the B Reader examination was originally developed. There is concern that examinations (particularly the initial certification examination) may be unnecessarily long and arduous for candidates, and a shorter examination with similar operating characteristics would be desirable, if possible. Changes to the scoring would be entertained that provide assessments of the individual component competencies. Ongoing statistical evaluations of the performance of the tests in identifying reader competence are sought which will be used by NIOSH to modify test item mix and/or scoring. B Reader core competencies might include the following: I - Knowledge Understand the following: 1. 2. The different types of radiographic abnormalities that are or may be associated with dust exposure

The intention, format, and mechanics of the ILO classification system, including a) When to use the classification and what abnormalities should be classified b) How the ILO defines abnormalities for parenchymal and pleural disease c) The meaning of profusion and how to use major/minor profusion categories properly d) The nature and use of standard films/images in classification 3. Where to find information about how to apply the ILO system 4. Where to find information on the NIOSH B Reader system 5. Ethical approaches to classifying radiographs, including a) The responsibilities of the reader in communicating with worker, agency, lawyer, employer b) Confidentiality issues impacting readers 6. The effects of technical defects on the appearances covered in the classification. II - Skills Ability to accurately and reliably identify and categorize the following according to the ILO classification system: 1. Image quality a) Unreadable images b) Defects in image quality that may affect its classification 2. Normal radiographs a) Borderline normal

3. Small nodular opacities a) High profusion b) Low profusion c) Reliably classifying profusion as 1/0 or greater; or 0/1 or less 4. Small linear/irregular opacities a) High profusion

Page 5 of 80

b) Low profusion c) Reliably classifying profusion as 1/0 or greater; or 0/1 or less 5. Reliable classification of Large Opacities a) Reliably classify presence of large opacities b) Reliably classify category of large opacities

6. Pleural disease a) Plaque and diffuse b) Calcifications c) Costophrenic angle obliteration d) Locations Be able to identify and differentiate: 1. 2. Large opacities and confluence of small opacities (ax) lesions Cancer (ca) and pulmonary tuberculosis (tb) lesions

Recently, research performed by NIOSH and others has demonstrated a functional equivalency between film and digital radiography for the recognition and classification of pneumoconioses, when appropriate methods and procedures are utilized. Subsequently, the ILO updated its previously film-based classification system, to permit the application of the classification to digital chest radiography. The revision of the ILO system (labeled ILO2011-D), included the development and release of a digitized version of the set of standard reference film radiographs that had been included in the 2000 edition. NIOSH also digitized the film images used in its existing teaching syllabus and examinations. However, there remain inevitable differences in the character of the appearances between digitized films and digitally-acquired images. Hence there is the need to replace the digitized film images used in current teaching materials and in certification and recertification examinations with modern digitally acquired images. For this purpose, NIOSH is establishing a digital chest image repository (CIR) which will contain at least 1000 digitallyacquired chest radiographs depicting various dust-related abnormalities. In addition, NIOSH is currently working with ILO in the identification of a new set of digitally-acquired standard images for the ILO classification system which is planned to be released in the near future. Statement of Objectives / Scope of work: The awarded contractor will work with NIOSH personnel to develop new digital format B Reader training and testing materials that parallel the existing teaching syllabus, initial certification examination and recertification examination. The new syllabus and examinations must be able to train and test candidates in the B Reader core competencies (particularly the highest-priority competencies) while assuring satisfactory test validity, reliability, and efficiency. The scope of work is as follows: 1. Work with NIOSH in reviewing the stakeholders input received, based upon a "Request for Information" published in the Federal Register, to identify the important competencies currently needed by B Readers and prioritize them for purposes of the new training and examinations. 2. Provide a draft technical plan document describing a) prioritized competencies that will be taught and tested in the new B Reader certification program (taking into account the stakeholders' input received from the "Request for Information"); b) the relative importance of these competencies; c) outline of structure and component items for the training syllabus including specific learning objectives (the educational content of the training syllabus should provide trainees with appropriate knowledge and practical experience in classifying actual digital chest images on diagnostic-quality imaging systems to achieve the necessary prioritized competencies), d) proposed standards for satisfactory test validity, reliability, and efficiency, and e) the timeline for accomplishing the tasks/deliverables below. 3. Finalize the detailed technical plan document (described in #2) after consultation with NIOSH. The final detailed technical plan should be received by NIOSH no later than 6 months after contract is awarded.

Page 6 of 80

4. Identify digitally-acquired candidate images for potential use in the training syllabus and examinations from the NIOSH Chest Image Repository (CIR) pool of images. The contractor may also identify potential candidate images from other sources and submit them to the image repository, as long as they adhere to image acquisition, storage and display criteria specified under the NIOSH Guideline: Application of Digital Radiography for the Detection and Classification of Pneumoconiosis (DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 2011-198). Images must be actual digitallyacquired (not digitized) chest radiographs in current DICOM format, with adequate resolution and gray-scale depth to clearly demonstrate dust-related changes, and use presentation state attributes to assure consistent display on workstations where training/testing is administered. All chest images used in this contract will become and remain the property of CDC/NIOSH. The contractor shall maintain strict control of the image files and prevent unauthorized use, transmission or copying of these images. 5. Assemble a draft training program in digital format. The images should be of high quality, digitally-acquired chest radiographs in current DICOM format, and use presentation state attributes to assure reproducible display on users' diagnostic-quality displays. The training program should be compatible with the NIOSH BViewer software so that trainees do not have to purchase software to view the images while taking the training. It would also be highly desirable for the training program to be compatible with commercial diagnostic imaging systems. The training program must have a completely functional and interactive software package for use on Microsoft Windows 7 and newer Windows operating systems which provides text content, images, feedback and assessment tools to train physicians in the prioritized core competencies. The role of each individual item in documenting a specific competency or competencies must be defined, and its performance should be documented by appropriate testing. The text content, classifications, feedback and answer keys must be developed by knowledgeable personnel and validated, such as by a panel of expert B Readers. The software tools used to develop the training program must be "Commercial off the Shelf" (COTS) or open source types of software. All source files must be delivered to NIOSH to allow for free distribution on portable media and downloadable from the NIOSH website. Any software tools or products used must be approved for use by the CDC Office of Chief Information Security Officer (OCISO) and NIOSH. The draft training program should be received by NIOSH no later than 12 months after contract is awarded. 6. Beta test the digital training program on a sufficiently large panel of trainees and document its usability, effectiveness in preparing trainees for certification and recertification examinations, and trainee satisfaction with the training experience. 7. Assemble a draft full initial certification examination from the individual testing materials, with a focus on the satisfactory identification of the highest priority competencies. The role of each individual item in documenting a specific competency or competencies must be defined, and its performance should be documented by appropriate testing. Classifications and answer keys must be developed by knowledgeable personnel, and validated, such as by a panel of expert B Readers. The examination must use the NIOSH BViewer software for displaying and classifying chest images. Contractor shall create a SASŽ program that easily inputs candidate responses in standard data formats, and provides outputs in standard formats of component and overall assessments of the skills, including scientific and statistically-based rationale for scoring. The source code for the assessment program must include detailed comments and be provided to NIOSH. An alternative to SASŽ may be acceptable if the software meets OCISO and NIOSH approval. The draft full initial certification examination should be received by NIOSH no later than 18 months after contract is awarded. 8. Beta test the initial certification examination and document its performance in evaluating examinees, usability by examinees, and examinee satisfaction with the testing experience. The testing materials and scoring system used for evaluation should confidently demonstrate competence most strongly on the highest priority knowledge and skills. 9. Finalize the digital training program and assist NIOSH in posting on the CDC web site and demonstrate use on portable media. The final digital training program should be received by NIOSH no later than 24 months after contract is awarded. 10. Finalize initial certification examination and deliver to NIOSH for use in certification testing. The initial certification examination must include text instructions, questions, images and answer codes. The final initial certification examination should be received by NIOSH no later than 30 months after contract is awarded.

Page 7 of 80

11. Assemble a draft full recertification examination from the individual testing materials. The role of each individual item in documenting a specific competency or competencies must be defined, and its performance should be documented by appropriate testing. No more than 10% of chest images used in the recertification examination should overlap with the initial certification examination. The examination must use the NIOSH BViewer software for displaying and classifying chest images. The recertification examination must include text instructions, questions, images and answer codes. Classifications and answer keys must be developed by knowledgeable personnel, and validated, such as by a panel of expert B Readers. The draft full recertification examination should be received by NIOSH no later than 36 months after contract is awarded. 12. Beta test the recertification examination and document its performance in evaluating examinees, usability by examinees, and examinee satisfaction with the testing experience. 13. Finalize recertification examination and deliver to NIOSH for use in recertification certification testing. The final full recertification examination should be received by NIOSH no later than 42 months after contract is awarded. 14. Perform preliminary evaluations of operational aspects of initial certification and recertification examinations and assemble methodology and procedures for ongoing assessment of overall test performance and individual test items. 15. Provide instruction manual and operational software for assessment of overall initial certification and recertification examinations testing performance and individual items. The software must provide ongoing statistical assessment of the overall performance of the examinations as well as recognition of individual items which do not make a satisfactory contribution to the identification of competent physician readers. The software used for the statistical assessment must be approved by OCISO and NIOSH. It is desirable to use software that is already licensed to CDC/NIOSH. The source code must be provided to NIOSH. The instruction manual and operational software should be received by NIOSH no later than 48 months after contract is awarded. 16. The contractor must provide software source code, demonstrate its use and provide instructions for use of all items above. 17. Provide detailed annual progress reports delivered to NIOSH by 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months after initiation of contract. Annual progress reports should address and document project status; measurement of achievements against objectives and tasks; problems encountered; actions taken to correct deficiencies; percentage of work completed; acceptability of the work; work remaining and evaluation. Each progress report should summarize progress since the preceding report, so earlier reports are summarized, subsumed, and superseded by the new report. 18. Provide detailed final report summarizing the activities and developments that occurred at the end of the contract period delivered to NIOSH by 48 months after initiation of contract. 19. Contractor is required to be available for telephone conference calls with the project officer at a frequency to be determined but no less than monthly. Deliverables: Deliverables should be provided in electronic format to the Project Officer. Text reports should be provided in Microsoft Word format. Teaching and testing materials will be provided in formats based on software tools used, as described in the statement of objectives/scope of work and below. Briefly, deliverables are as follows:  Submission and approval by NIOSH of a detailed technical plan (as described in Section 3, items #2 and 3; draft submitted by 4 months after contract initiation, NIOSH review returned by 5 months, and final plan delivered by 6 months) Annual progress reports (1, 2, and 3 years): detailed progress reports documenting satisfactory progress in achieving objectives and tasks (delivered to NIOSH by 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months after initiation of contract)



Page 8 of 80



Final digital training program for posting on the NIOSH web site and distribution on portable media, and data documenting its usability, educational effectiveness and trainee satisfaction with the training experience (as described in Section 3, items #5, #6 and #9; draft submitted no later than 12 months after initiation of contract, final version submitted no later than 24 months after initiation of contract) Delivery to NIOSH of the final, ready to be deployed initial certification examination; operational software for assessing the performance of the initial certification examination and individual items; data documenting its performance in evaluating examinees, usability by examinees, and examinee satisfaction with the testing experience; and recommendations for ongoing evaluation of test performance for use in quality improvement (as described in Section 3, items #7, #8, #10, #14, and #15; draft submitted no later than 18 months after initiation of contract, final version submitted no later than 30 months after initiation of contract). Delivery to NIOSH of the final, ready to be deployed recertification examination; operational software for assessment of overall recertification examination and individual items; data documenting its performance in evaluating examinees, usability by examinees, and examinee satisfaction with the testing experience; and recommendations for ongoing evaluation of test performance for use in quality improvement (as described in Section 3, items 11, #12, #13, #14, and #15; draft submitted no later than 36 months after initiation of contract, final version submitted no later than 42 months after initiation of contract). Delivery to NIOSH of the final report summarizing the activities and developments that occurred at the end of the contract period.







Applicable Conditions: The contractor should anticipate the release of new ILO digital standard images in the near future. This may impact the new training program, examinations, and assessment program and is impossible to predict the extent of the impact, as we do not know if the classification system will change or at the very least, substitute new digitally acquired images. If the new standard images become available during the term of this contract, the contractor will need to provide NIOSH with educational and testing materials that reflect the new ILO digital standards. If these new ILO standard images are not available during the term of the contract, the contractor will need to provide NIOSH with the proper methods for revising the educational and testing materials with updated text, classifications and answer keys to reflect the new ILO digital standards. Period of Performance/Delivery Schedule: The tasks specified above and the finalized new digital B Reader training and testing materials are to be delivered to and approved by NIOSH no more than 4 years from the date this contract is awarded. Options: Options to provide maintenance and upgrades to the new digital B Reader training and testing materials (after the end of the period of performance) will be considered if funding is available. Maintenance and upgrades may be needed based on feedback received during the implementation of the training program and examinations. Adherence to IT Security and Privacy Policy: Contractor performance and resulting deliverables shall adhere to all Federal, HHS, and CDC IT security and privacy guidelines, policies and procedures in effect at the time of the award of this contract. The appropriate security controls and Rules of Behavior will be incorporated to protect the confidentiality of proprietary, sensitive, and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) the contractor may come in contact with during the performance of the task requirements. The contractor will only work with de-identified images that contain no personal health information; however the contractor may work with testing materials that contain information pertaining to the identity and testing results of physician candidates. The contractor must take steps to protect the privacy of physicians that participate in the beta testing of the evaluation materials. Based upon the scope of this contract, the work performed under it must be compliant with the following HHSAR IT Security clauses: 352.239-70 Standard for Security Configurations; 352.239-71 Standard for Encryption Language; 352.239-72 Security requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources. The HHS/OCISO records management policy applies to this contract and all federal employees and contractors must follow the policy.

Page 9 of 80

The following Section 508 provisions may apply to the content or communications material identified in this SOW: 36 CFR 1194.21 (for trainings that use software plug-ins ­ including Flash, Silverlight, and JavaScript) 36 CFR 1194.22 (for all electronic documents, including HTML, PDF, PowerPoint, and Word) 36 CFR 1194.24 (for all Video and Multimedia components) 36 CFR 1194.31 (for all training materials) 36 CFR 1194.41 (for all training materials) Contractor Location: Contractor may be based anywhere in the US. However, contractor will assume expenses as needed for tasks requiring on-site visits or travel to NIOSH, Morgantown, WV, as described in the statement of objectives/ scope of work. References: All reference materials noted below are freely available to the public. 1. Wagner GR, Attfield MD, Kennedy RD, Parker JE. The NIOSH B Reader Certification Program-An Update Report. J Occup Med. 1992 Sep; 34(9):879-84. 2. DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 2011-198. NIOSH Guideline: Application of Digital Radiography for the Detection and Classification of Pneumoconiosis [Accessible at http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2011-198/, accessed 2/20/13]. 3. DHHS (NIOSH). Chest radiography. [Accessible at http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/chestradiography/, accessed 2/20/13]. 4. DHHS (NIOSH). The B reader program. [Accessible at http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/chestradiography/breader.html, accessed 2/20/13]. 5. DHHS (NIOSH). 42CFR37. Specifications for medical examinations of underground coal miners. [Accessible at https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2012/09/13/2012-22253/specifications-for-medical-examinations-ofunderground-coal-miners, accessed 2/20/13].

Page 10 of 80

Section D - Packaging And Marking
D.1 Marking Requirements (May 1998) The contractor must mark/stencil all shipping containers with the following information: The Contract Number From Page One (1) of the Contract If material is hazardous chemical, include in Description of Contents. (End of Clause) D.2 Place of Delivery (May 1998) Deliveries shall be made, F.O.B. Destination to the following address: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 1095 Willowdale Road Morgantown WV 26505 Mark Attention To: TBD Contract No.: TBD (End of Clause)

Page 11 of 80

Section E - Inspection And Acceptance
FAR SOURCE 52.246-16 52.246-4 TITLE AND DATE Responsibility for Supplies (Apr 1984) Inspection of Services - Fixed-Price (Aug. 1996)

E.1 Inspection and Acceptance (Jul 1999) Inspection and acceptance of the articles, services, and documentation called for herein shall be accomplished by the Contracting Officer, or his duly authorized representative (who for the purposes of this contract shall be the Project Officer) at the destination of the articles, services or documentation. (End of Clause)

Page 12 of 80

Section F - Deliveries Or Performance
FAR SOURCE 52.242-15 TITLE AND DATE Stop-Work Order (Aug 1989)

F.1 Place(s) of Performance (Jul 1999) The Contractor shall perform all work under this contract at: the contractor facility. (End of Clause) F.2 Period of Performance (Jul 1999) The effective date of this contract shall be the date shown in Block 28, Page 1 of this contract. The period of performance is anticipated to be a base period of performance of forty-eight (48) months, beginning on the effective date of the contract. Thereafter, the Government anticipates one (1) twelve (12) calendar month optional period ending so that the full term of the contract does not exceed sixty (60) months. Option periods are exercised at the discretion of the Government. F.3 Deliverable(s) Schedule The Contractor shall deliver, within the time frames specified and the format specified to the Contracting Officer Technical representative at the address shown in F.4 and to the Contract Specialist administering the contract at the address shown in F.3. Description Monthly Teleconference Status Reports ­ Including Monthly Option 1 Period Teleconferences if Exercised Draft Technical Plan Document Detailed Technical Plan Document Draft Training Program Deliverables to the Contracting Officer Technical Representative Telephone Conference Calls Word Document in Electronic Format Word Document in Electronic Format In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Word Document in Electronic Format In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Word Document in Electronic Format In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Deliverable Date

At Least on a Monthly Basis Four (4) Months After Contract Award Six (6) Months After Contract Award Twelve (12) Months After Contract Award Twelve (12) Months After Contract Award Eighteen (18) Months After Contract Award Twenty-Four (24) Months After Contract Award Twenty-Four (24) Months After Contract Award Thirty (30) Months After Contract Award

Year 1 Report - A Detailed Annual Report Draft Initial Certification Examination

Final Digital Training Program

Year 2 Report - A Detailed Annual Report

Final Ready to be Deployed Initial Certification Examination

Page 13 of 80

Draft Recertification Examination

Year 3 Report - A Detailed Annual Report

In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Word Document in Electronic Format In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Word Document in Electronic Format

Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination

A Draft Final Report - Summarizing the Activities and Developments that Occurred at the end of the Contract Period. Upon Approval a Final Report Will be Submitted by Contractor. Final Instruction Manual and Operational Software for Assessment of Overall Initial Certification and Recertification Examinations Testing Performance and Individual Items. Final Report Semi Annual Option Period 1 Reports ­ If Option Exercised

Thirty-six (36) Months After Contract Award Thirty-Six (36) Months After Contract Award Forty-two (42) Months After Contract Award 30 Days Prior to the End of Contract Period. Forty-eight (48) Months After Contract Award End of Contract Base Award Period Fifty-four (54) and Sixty (60) Months After Contract Award

In Accordance with Statement of Objective / Statement of Work Word Document in Electronic Format Work Document in Electronic Format

F.4 Deliverable Documentation (a) Documentation The following is a list of required documentation to be delivered to the Government as a part of contract performance. (1) Monthly Teleconference Status Reports (i) Due Date: At least monthly throughout the contract performance period.

(ii) Quantity: At least one (1) teleconference status report provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative by telephone per month. (2) Draft Technical Plan Document / Detailed Technical Plan Document (i) Due Date: Four (4) and six (6) months respectively after the effective date of the contract.

(ii) Quantity: Two (2) electronic copies of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in Word .doc file electronic format provided by electronic mail and the CDC Contract Specialist. (3) Draft Training Program / Final Digital Training Program (i) Due Date: Twelve (12) and twenty-four (24) months respectively after the effective date of the contract. (ii) Quantity: One (1) copy of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in the formats specified in the statement of objective / scope of work. (4) Draft Initial Certification Examination / Final Ready to be Deployed Initial Certification Examination

Page 14 of 80

(i) Due Date: Eighteen (18) and thirty (30) months respectively after the effective date of the contract. (ii) Quantity: One (1) copy of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in the formats specified in the statement of objective / scope of work. (5) Draft Recertification Examination / Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination (i) Due Date: Thirty-six (36) and forty-two (42) months respectively after the effective date of the contract. (ii) Quantity: One (1) copy of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in the formats specified in the statement of objective / scope of work. (6) Year 1 / 2 / 3 Annual Reports (i) Due Date: Twelve (12), twenty-four (24), and thirty-six (36) months after the effective date of the contract. (ii) Quantity: Two (2) electronic copies of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in Word .doc file electronic format provided by electronic mail and the CDC Contract Specialist. (7) Draft Final Report (i) Due Date: On or before forty-seven (47) months after the effective date of the contract.

(ii). Quantity: Two (2) electronic copies provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in Word .doc file electronic format provided by electronic mail and the CDC Contract Specialist. (8) Final Instruction Manual and Operational Software (i) Due Date: On or before forty-eight (48) months after the effective date of the contract.

(ii) Quantity: One (1) copy of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in the formats specified in the statement of objective / scope of work. (9) Final Report (i) Due Date: On or before forty-eight (48) months after the effective date of the contract.

(ii). Quantity: Two (2) electronic copies provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in Word .doc file electronic format provided by electronic mail and the CDC Contract Specialist. (10) Option Period 1 Semi Annual Technical Status Reports (i) Due Date: On or before fifty-four (54) months and sixty (60) months after the effective date of the contract.. (ii). Quantity: Two (2) electronic copies of each provided to the NIOSH Contracting Officer Technical Representative in Word .doc file electronic format provided by electronic mail and the CDC Contract Specialist.

Page 15 of 80

(b) Report Content (1) Monthly Teleconference Status Reports The contractor shall prepare and provide monthly teleconference status reports which shall contain technical results of the work accomplished during the reporting period. This report shall be in sufficient detail to disclose all work started and results achieved during the reporting period, details and discussion of any current problems which may impede performance, the proposed corrective action, and the work forecast for the next period. This teleconference shall report progress and planning so as to correspond with the work schedule. (2) Draft Technical Plan Document / Detailed Technical Plan Document The Contractor shall prepare and submit to NIOSH a Draft Technical Plan Document / Detailed Technical Plan Document as described in the statement of objectives / scope of work. (3) Draft Training Program / Final Digital Training Program The Contractor shall prepare and submit to NIOSH a Draft Training Program and Final Digital Training Program for posting on the NIOSH web site and distribution on portable media, and data documenting its usability, educational effectiveness and trainee satisfaction with the training experience, as described in the statement of objectives/scope of work. (4) Draft Initial Certification Examination / Final Ready to be Deployed Initial Certification Examination The Contractor shall prepare and submit to NIOSH a Draft Initial Certification Examination and Final Ready to be Deployed Initial Certification Examination for use in certification testing as described in the statement of objectives/scope of work. (5) Draft Recertification Examination / Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination The Contractor shall prepare and submit to NIOSH a Draft Recertification Examination and Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination for use in recertification certification testing as described in the statement of objectives/scope of work. (6) Year 1/2/3/Reports The Contractor shall prepare annual progress reports in narrative form which shall contain technical results of the work accomplished during the reporting period. This report shall be in sufficient detail to disclose all work started and results achieved during the reporting period, details and discussion of any current problems which may impede performance, the proposed corrective action, and the work forecast for the next period. This document shall report progress and planning so as to correspond with the work schedule. (7) Draft Final Report The Contractor shall prepare and submit Draft Final Report in Word .doc file electronic format. Upon completion of all work under the contract, the Contractor shall prepare and submit to the Government a final report covering in detail all the work accomplished under the contract. The final report shall document and summarize the entire contract work and shall include recommendations and conclusions based on the experience and results obtained. The final report shall include tables, graphs, photos, and diagrams in sufficient detail to comprehensively explain the results achieved under the contract. The report shall also include an analysis of salient findings, a presentation of general conclusions, and any guidance or recommendations deemed pertinent for future consideration by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. The Government shall be allowed fifteen (15) days to review the draft and notify the Contractor in writing of approval or of recommended changes to be made in the final copy.

Page 16 of 80

If the Government does not approve or recommend changes within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the draft final report, the report shall be deemed approved. The final report shall also include a list of "Subject Inventions" or a certification of the absence thereof. (8) Final Instruction Manual and Operational Software The Contractor shall prepare and submit to NIOSH a final instruction manual and operational software for assessment of overall initial certification and recertification examinations testing performance and individual items. Text reports should be provided in Microsoft Word format. Teaching and testing materials will be provided in formats based on software tools used, as described in the statement of objectives/scope of work . (9) Final Report Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of a notice of approval from the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall furnish the Government with a reproducible master and the required number of copies of the final report in final form. The reproducible master shall be prepared in accordance with the guidelines referenced under DRAFT FINAL REPORT. (10) Option Period 1 Semi Annual Technical Status Reports The contractor shall prepare and provide semiannual status reports which shall contain technical results of the work accomplished during the reporting period. This report shall be in sufficient detail to disclose all work started and results achieved during the reporting period, details and discussion of any current problems which may impede performance, the proposed corrective action, and the work forecast for the next period. This technical status reports shall report progress and planning so as to correspond with the work schedule. (c) Delivery of Reports The Contractor shall submit one copy of each of the reports as an email attachment in draft and/or final form as required by the contract: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention PGO Acquisition Branch 4 Post Office Box 18070 626 Cochrans Mill Road - B-140 Pittsburgh PA 15236-0070 Attention: TBD Contract No.: TBD All remaining copies of deliverables/reports shall be delivered as an email attachment concurrent with shipping hard copies, prepaid, as required by the contract to the Government Contracting Officer Technical Representative designated by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause) F.4 Delivery of Reports Reports shall be delivered in accordance with the instructions in F.3. Items designated for delivery to the Contracting Officer Technical Representative shall be addressed as follows: NIOSH ­ TBD Attn: TBD

Page 17 of 80

Section G - Contract Administration Data
G.1 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer (Dec 2005) (a) The Government shall use electronic funds transfer to the maximum extent possible when making payments under this contract. FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Central Contractor Registration, in Section I, requires the contractor to designate in writing a financial institution for receipt of electronic funds transfer payments. (b) In addition to Central Contractor Registration, the contractor shall make the designation by submitting the form titled "ACH Vendor/Miscellaneous Payment Enrollment Form" to the address indicated below. Note: The form is either attached to this contract (see Section J, List of Attachments) or may be obtained by contacting the Contracting Officer or the CDC Financial Management Office at (404) 498-4050. (c) In cases where the contractor has previously provided such designation, i.e., pursuant to a prior contract/order, and been enrolled in the program, the form is not required unless the designated financial institution has changed. (d) The completed form shall be mailed after award, but no later than 14 calendar days before an invoice is submitted, to the following address: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Financial Management Office (FMO) P.O. Box 15580 Atlanta, GA 30333 Or ­ Fax copy to: 404-638-5342 (End of Clause) G.2 Invoice Submission - Part 1 (Mar 2006) (a) The Contractor shall submit the original contract invoice/voucher to the shown below: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Financial Management Office (FMO) P.O. Box 15580 Atlanta, GA 3033 Or ­ The Contractor may submit the original invoice/voucher via facsimile or email: Fax: 404-638-5324 Email: FMOAPINV@CDC.GOV NOTE: Submit to only one (1) of the above locations. (b) The contractor shall submit 2 copies of the invoice/voucher to the cognizant contracting office previously identified in this contract. These invoices/voucher copies shall be addressed to the attention of the Contracting Officer. (c) The Contractor is , is not required to submit a copy of each invoice directly to the Project Officer concurrently with submission to the Contracting Officer. In accordance with 5 CFR part 1315 (Prompt Payment), CDC's Financial Management Office is the designated billing office for the purpose of determining the payment due date under FAR 32.904.

(d)

Page 18 of 80

(e)

The Contractor shall include (as a minimum) the following information on each invoice: (1) Contractor's Name & Address (2) Contractor's Tax Identification Number (TI N) (3) Purchase Order/Contract Number and Task Order Number, if Appropriate (4) Invoice Number (5) Invoice Date (6) Contract Line Item Number and Description of Item (7) Quantity (8) Unit Price & Extended Amount for each line item (9) Shipping and Payment Terms (10) Total Amount of Invoice (11) Name, title and telephone number of person to be notified in the event of a defective invoice (12) Payment Address, if different from the information in (c)(1). (13) DUNS + 4 Number

(End of Clause) G.3 Payments/Payment Schedule The total of the work to be performed by the Contractor under this contract is firm fixed price at $To Be Determined. Subject to the provisions of the clause entitled "Payments (APR 1984)" of Section I, payments shall be made on partial deliveries accepted by the Government as work progresses. All vouchers shall reflect the exact task(s) and dates covered (i.e., Task 1 - 1/28 September 1999). The amounts set forth in the vouchers shall correspond by nomenclature to the task or sub-task set forth in the contract. All vouchers shall reflect itemized cumulative totals of billings to the date of that voucher. (End of Clause) G.4 Vouchers Contract payments shall be made on a task or sub-task basis as work progresses in the following schedule of payments. Partial payment is authorized after the completion of each task or sub-task in accordance with the following schedule. - Month 04 Payment Point ­ Draft Detailed Technical Plan Document - Upon Submission to NIOSH and Approval of Draft Detailed Technical Plan for Accomplishments of Objectives - $____________ - Month 06 Payment Point ­ Detailed Technical Plan Document - Upon Submission to NIOSH and Approval of Detailed Technical Plan for Accomplishments of Objectives - $____________

Page 19 of 80

- Month 12 Payment Point - Year 1 Report - Detailed Annual Report / Draft Training Program ­ Upon Submission and Approval by NIOSH of First Detailed Annual Progress Report Documenting Satisfactory Progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks and Upon Submission to NIOSH and Approval of Draft Training Program - $____________ - Month 18 Payment Point ­ Draft Initial Certification Examination - Upon Submission to NIOSH and Approval of Draft Initial Certification Examination ­ $____________ - Month 24 Payment Point ­ Year 2 Report - Detailed Annual Report / Final Digital Training Program ­ Upon Submission and Approval by NIOSH of Second Detailed Annual Progress Report Documenting Satisfactory Progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks and Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of Final Digital Training Program - $____________ - Month 30 Payment Point - Final Ready to be Deployed Certification Examination ­ Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of the Final Ready to be Deployed Initial Certification Examination - $____________ - Month 36 Payment Point - Year 3 Report - A Detailed Annual Report / Draft Recertification Exam ­ Upon Submission and Approval by NIOSH of Third Detailed Annual Progress Report Documenting Satisfactory Progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks and Upon Delivery to NIOSH and Approval of a Draft Recertification Examination - $____________ - Month 42 Payment Point ­ Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination ­ Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of the Final Ready to be Deployed Recertification Examination - $____________ - Month 48 Payment Point - Final Report - A Detailed Final Report / Final Instruction Manual and Operational Software ­ Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of a Final Report Documenting Satisfactory progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks and Upon Delivery NIOSH and Approval of a Final Instruction Manual and Operational Software - $____________ - Month 54 Payment Point ­ Option Period 1 Semi Annual Technical Status Report / If Option Exercised ­ Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of a Semi Annual Technical Status report Documenting Satisfactory Progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks of B Reader Digital Training and Certification Program Maintenance and Upgrades - $____________ - Month 60 Payment Point ­ Option Period 1 Semi Annual Technical Status Report / If Option Exercised ­ Upon Delivery and Approval by NIOSH of a Semi Annual Technical Status Report Documenting Satisfactory Progress in Achieving Objectives and Tasks of B Reader Digital Training and Certification Program Maintenance and Upgrades - $____________ G.5 Contracting Officer (Jul 1999) (a) The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds. No person other than the Contracting Officer can make any changes to the terms, conditions, general provisions, or other stipulations of this contract. (b) No information, other than that which may be contained in an authorized modification to this contract, duly issued by the Contracting Officer, which may be received from any person employed by the United States Government, or otherwise, shall be considered grounds for deviation from any stipulation of this contract. (End of Clause) G.6 Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) Technical Guidance (Sep 2009) Performance of the work hereunder shall be subject to the technical directions of the designated COTR for this contract.

Page 20 of 80

As used herein, technical directions are directions to the Contractor which fill in details, suggests possible lines of inquiry, or otherwise completes the general scope of work set forth herein. These technical directions must be within the general scope of work, and may not alter the scope of work or cause changes of such a nature as to justify an adjustment in the stated contract price/cost, or any stated limitation thereof. In the event that the Contractor feels that full implementation of any of these directions may exceed the scope of the contract, he or she shall notify the originator of the technical direction and the Contracting Officer in a letter separate of any required report(s) within two (2) weeks of the date of receipt of the technical direction and no action shall be taken pursuant to the direction. If the Contractor fails to provide the required notification within the said two (2) week period that any technical direction exceeds the scope of the contract, then it shall be deemed for purposes of this contract that the technical direction was within the scope. No technical direction, nor its fulfillment, shall alter or abrogate the rights and obligations fixed in this contract. The Government COTR is not authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of this contract. Changes shall be made only by the Contracting Officer by properly written modification(s) to the contract. The Government will provide the Contractor with a copy of the delegation memorandum for the COTR. Any changes in COTR delegation will be made by the Contracting Officer in writing with a copy being furnished to the Contractor. (End of Clause) G.7 Technical Monitoring (Jul 1999) (a) Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical monitoring of the Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR). The term "Technical Monitoring" is defined to include, without limitation, the following: (1) Technical directions to the Contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish contractual scope of work. (2) Providing information to the Contractor for assistance in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of the work description. (3) Review and, where required by the contract, approve of technical reports, drawings, specifications and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract. (b) Technical direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract. The COTR does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical direction which (I) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the contract; (ii) constitutes a change as defined in the contract clause entitled "Changes"; (iii) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total contract cost, the fixed fee or the time required for contract performance; or (iv) changes any of the express terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract. (c) All technical directions shall be issued in writing by the COTR or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within five (5) working days after issuance. (d) The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical directions duly issued by the COTR in the manner prescribed by this article and within his/her authority under the provisions of this clause. (e) If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COTR is within one of the categories as defined in (b)(3)(i) through (iv) above, the Contractor shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing within five (5) working days after the receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting Officer to modify the contract accordingly. Upon receiving such notification from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the Contractor in writing that, in his/her opinion, the technical direction is within the scope of this clause and does not constitute a change under the

Page 21 of 80

Changes clause of the contract. The Contractor shall thereupon proceed immediately with the direction given. A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the instructions or direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject to the provisions of the contract clause entitled "Disputes". (End of Clause) G.8 Evaluation of Contractor Performance (Service) (Jan 2000) (a) Purpose In accordance with FAR 42.1502, the Contractor's performance will be periodically evaluated by the Government, in order to provide current information for source selection purposes. These evaluations will therefore be marked "Source Selection Information." (b) Performance Evaluation Period The Contractor's performance will be evaluated at least annually. (c) Evaluators The performance evaluation will be completed jointly by the Project officer and the Contracting officer. (d) Performance Evaluation Factors The contractor's performance will be evaluated in accordance with the attachment listed in Section J titled Performance Evaluation Report. (e) Contractor Review A copy of the evaluation will be provided to the contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. The contractor shall submit comments, rebutting statements, or additional information to the Contracting Officer within 30 calendar days after receipt of the evaluation. (f) Resolving Disagreements Between the Government and the Contractor Disagreements between the parties regarding the evaluation will be reviewed at a level above the Contracting Officer. The ultimate conclusion on the performance evaluation is a decision of the contracting agency. Copies of the evaluation, contractor's response, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the evaluation. (g) Release of Contractor Performance Evaluation Information The completed evaluation will not be released to other than Government personnel and the contractor whose performance is being evaluated. Disclosure of such information could cause harm both to the commercial interest of the Government and to the competitive position of the contractor being evaluated as well as impede the efficiency of Government operations. (h) Source Selection Information Departments and agencies may share past performance information with other Government departments and agencies when requested to support future award decisions. The information may be provided through interview and/or by sending the evaluation and comment document to the requesting source selection official. (i) Retention Period The agency will retain past performance information for a maximum period of three years after completion of

Page 22 of 80

contract performance for the purpose of providing source selection information for future contract awards. (End of Clause) G.9 Contract Communications/Correspondence (Jul 1999) The Contractor shall identify all correspondence, reports, and other data pertinent to this contract by imprinting thereon the contract number from Page 1 of the contract. (End of Clause) . G.10 Subcontracting Plan (Jul 1999) The Contractor's subcontracting plan, as negotiated, submitted in response to Solicitation 2013-N-15006, is hereby incorporated into this contract by reference. (End of Clause) G.11 Subcontracting Program Reports (May 1998) (a) The Contractor shall submit the reports listed below in accordance with the instructions and within the time periods specified on the report forms: (1) Standard Form 294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts. (2) Standard Form 295, Summary Subcontract Report. (b) In addition to the reporting information specified on the report forms, the Contractor shall provide, in the "Remarks" block on each Standard Form 294 submitted, a narrative of the progress made in fulfilling the small business and small disadvantaged business subcontracting goals contained in its approved plan. (c) The Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer any difficulties encountered in achieving the goals and shall describe the action being taken to overcome the difficulties. (End of Clause) G.12 Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) (Dec 2005) The contractor shall register with the Electronic Subcontracts Reporting System (eSRS) for the submission of its Individual Subcontract Report (SF 294) and the Annual Summary Reports (SF 295). Before registering in eSRS, the contractor information must be correct in System for Award Management database. The eSRS is a world wide web-based application available at: http://www.esrs.gov. The eSRS website provides training and instruction for data submission. (End of Clause)

Page 23 of 80

Section H - Special Contract Requirements
H.1 HHSAR 352.242-70 Key Personnel (January 2006) The key personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to work performance. At least 30 days prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs or contracts (or as soon as possible, if an individual must be replaced, for example, as a result of leaving the employ of the Contractor), the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and shall submit comprehensive justification for the diversion or replacement request (including proposed substitutions for key personnel) to permit evaluation by the Government of the impact on performance under this contract. The Contractor shall not divert or otherwise replace any key personnel without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Government may modify the contract to add or delete key personnel at the request of the contractor or Government. (End of clause) H.2 Key Personnel Listing Personnel Title

(End of Clause) H.3 Prohibition on the Use of Appropriated Funds for Lobbying Activities (Jul 1999) The contractor is hereby notified of the restrictions on the use of Department of Health and Human Service's funding for lobbying of Federal, State and Local legislative bodies. Section 1352 of Title 10, United Stated Code (Public Law 101-121, effective 12/23/89), among other things, prohibits a recipient (and their subcontractors) of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement from using appropriated funds (other than profits from a federal contract) to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions; the awarding of any Federal contract; the making of any Federal grant; the making of any Federal loan; the entering into of any cooperative agreement; or the modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. For additional information of prohibitions against lobbying activities, see FAR Subpart 3.8 and FAR Clause 52.203-12. In addition, the current Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act provides that no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to support, or defeat legislation pending before the Congress, or any State or Local legislature except in presentation to the Congress, or any State or Local legislative body itself. The current Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act also provides that no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be used to pay the salary or expenses of any contract or grant recipient, or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress, or any State or Local legislature. (End of Clause) H.4 Smoke Free Environment (Jul 1999) In compliance with Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) regulations, all contractor personnel performing work within CDC/ATSDR facilities shall observe the CDC/ATSDR smoke-free working environment policy at all times. This policy prohibits smoking in all CDC/ATSDR buildings and in front of buildings which are

Page 24 of 80

open to the public. This policy is also applicable to contractor personnel who do not work full-time within CDC/ATSDR facilities, but are attending meetings within CDC/ATSDR facilities. (End of Clause) H.5 Year 2000 Compliance (Jul 1999) Unless elsewhere exempted, information technology (if any) to be acquired under this contract/purchase order, which will be required to perform date/time processing involving dates subsequent to December 31, 1999, shall be Year 2000 compliant as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 39.002. (End of Clause) H.6 Identification of Data (May 1998) The Contractor shall identify the technical data delivered to the Government as required by this contract with the number of the contract and the name and address of the Contractor or subcontractor that generated the data. (End of Clause) H.7 Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors (Jul 1999) The Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors submitted by incorporated by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. (End of Clause) H.8 Incorporation of Technical Proposal (May 1998) The Contractor's technical proposal, including all revisions thereto, submitted in response to RFP 2013-N-15006 is hereby incorporated into the contract by reference. The Contractor shall perform the work substantially as set forth in the technical proposal. Any revisions to the technical proposal that would significantly alter the technical approach must be approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. In the event of a conflict between Section C, Statement of Work, and the Contractor's technical proposal, Section C will take precedence. (End of Clause) H.9 Review and Comment (May 1998) All materials developed or information of whatever nature resulting from work performed under this contract shall be submitted to the Project Officer for review and comment prior to publication or dissemination. (End of Clause) H.10 Conference Disclaimer and Use of Logos (Apr 2006) The views expressed in written conference materials or publications and by speakers and moderators at HHSsponsored conferences do not necessarily reflect the official policies of the Department of Health and Human Services; nor does mention of trade names, commercial practices, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government. (End of Clause) dated are hereby

Page 25 of 80

H.11 Government Property (Feb 2012) (a) Government-Furnished Property (GFP). In accordance with the terms of FAR 52.245-1, Government Property, the Government reserves the right to supply the Contractor, as Government-furnished property, any additional supplies, equipment, and materials determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary and in the best interest of the Government. (b) Contractor-Acquired Property (CAP). The Contractor must receive written consent from the Contracting Officer prior to purchase of any CAP not expressly identified in the contract, and as defined in FAR 52.245-1. (c) Accountable and Sensitive Government Property. The Government will provide property labels and other identification for contractor-acquired Government property that is considered Accountable as defined in the HHS Logistics Management Manual (LMM) or considered Sensitive as defined in CDC's Sensitive Items List (d) The contractor shall be responsible for the control and accountable record keeping of any Government property used in the performance of this contract predominately outside the confines of a Government controlled workspace in accordance with HHS LMM Appendix Q, HHS Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property. (e) The Chief of the Logistics Management Branch, PGO, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), is hereby designated as the Property Administrator for this contract. The Contractor shall identify each item of equipment furnished by the Government to the Contractor or acquired by the Contractor using contract funds, with a suitable decal, tag, or other marking, as prescribed by the Property Administrator, and shall follow the guidance set forth in Appendix Q, HHS Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property. (End of Clause) H.12 HHSAR 352.239-70 Standard for Security Configurations (Oct 2009) a) The Contractor shall configure its computers that contain HHS data with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) (see http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm) and ensure that its computers have and maintain the latest operating system patch level and anti-virus software level. Note: FDCC is applicable to all computing systems using Windows XP TM and Windows VistaTM, including desktops and laptops--regardless of function--but not including servers. (b) The Contractor shall apply approved security configurations to information technology (IT) that is used to process information on behalf of HHS. The following security configuration requirements apply: Approved security configurations are identified in NIST checklists (http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/ncp/repository) or contained in a DoD DISA security technical implementation guide or security checklist http://iase.disa.mil/stigs/index.html. If CDC specific security configuration requirements are later determined to apply, they will be provided subsequent to contract award and incorporated by contract modification. Note: The Contracting Officer shall specify applicable security configuration requirements in solicitations and contracts based on information provided by the Project Officer, who shall consult with the OPDIV/STAFFDIV Chief Information Security Officer. (c) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications operated on behalf of HHS are fully functional and operate correctly on systems configured in accordance with the above configuration requirements. The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)-validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to ensure its products operate correctly with FDCC configurations and do not alter FDCC settings--see http://nvd.nist.gov/validation.cfm. The Contractor shall test applicable product versions with all relevant and current updates and patches installed. The Contractor shall ensure currently supported versions of information technology products meet the latest FDCC major version and subsequent major versions.

Page 26 of 80

(d) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications designed for end users run in the standard user context without requiring elevated administrative privileges. (e) The Contractor shall ensure hardware and software installation, operation, maintenance, update, and patching will not alter the configuration settings or requirements specified above. (f) The Contractor shall (1) include Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 201-compliant (see http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips201-1/FIPS-201-1-chng1.pdf), Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) card readers with the purchase of servers, desktops, and laptops; and (2) comply with FAR Subpart 4.13, Personal Identity Verification. (g) The Contractor shall ensure that its subcontractors (at all tiers) which perform work under this contract comply with the requirements contained in this clause. (End of clause) H.13 HHSAR 352.239-71 Standard for Encryption Language (Oct 2009) (a) The Contractor shall use Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2-compliant encryption (Security Requirements for Cryptographic Module, as amended) to protect all instances of HHS sensitive information during storage and transmission. (Note: The Government has determined that HHS information under this contract is considered ``sensitive'' in accordance with FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems, dated February 2004.) (b) The Contractor shall verify that the selected encryption product has been validated under the Cryptographic Module Validation Program (see http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/) to confirm compliance with FIPS 140-2 (as amended). The Contractor shall provide a written copy of the validation documentation to the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. (c) The Contractor shall use the Key Management Key (see FIPS 201, Chapter 4, as amended) on the HHS personal identification verification (PIV) card; or alternatively, the Contractor shall establish and use a key recovery mechanism to ensure the ability for authorized personnel to decrypt and recover all encrypted information (see http://csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/ombencryption-guidance.pdf). The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative of personnel authorized to decrypt and recover all encrypted information. (d) The Contractor shall securely generate and manage encryption keys to prevent unauthorized decryption of information in accordance with FIPS 140-2 (as amended). (e) The Contractor shall ensure that this standard is incorporated into the Contractor's property management/control system or establish a separate procedure to account for all laptop computers, desktop computers, and other mobile devices and portable media that store or process sensitive HHS information. (f) The Contractor shall ensure that its subcontractors (at all tiers) which perform work under this contract comply with the requirements contained in this clause. (End of clause) H.14 HHSAR 352.239-72 Security Requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources (Oct 2009) (a) Applicability. This clause applies whether the entire contract or order (hereafter ``contract''), or portion thereof, includes information technology resources or services in which the Contractor has physical or logical (electronic) access to, or operates a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) system containing, information that directly supports HHS' mission. The term ``information technology (IT)'', as used in this clause, includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software,

Page 27 of 80

firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services) and related resources. This clause does not apply to national security systems as defined in FISMA. (b) Contractor responsibilities. The Contractor is responsible for the following: (1) Protecting Federal information and Federal information systems in order to ensure their-(i) Integrity, which means guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity; (ii) Confidentiality, which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information; and. (iii) Availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information. (2) Providing security of any Contractor systems, and information contained therein, connected to an HHS network or operated by the Contractor, regardless of location, on behalf of HHS. (3) Adopting, and implementing, at a minimum, the policies, procedures, controls, and standards of the HHS Information Security Program to ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of Federal information and Federal information systems for which the Contractor is responsible under this contract or to which it may otherwise have access under this contract. The HHS Information Security Program is outlined in the HHS Information Security Program Policy, which is available on the HHS Office of the Chief Information Officer's (OCIO) Web site. (c) Contractor security deliverables. In accordance with the timeframes specified, the Contractor shall prepare and submit the following security documents to the Contracting Officer for review, comment, and acceptance: (1) IT Security Plan (IT-SP)--due within 30 days after contract award. The IT-SP shall be consistent with, and further detail the approach to, IT security contained in the Contractor's bid or proposal that resulted in the award of this contract. The IT-SP shall describe the processes and procedures that the Contractor will follow to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract. If the IT-SP only applies to a portion of the contract, the Contractor shall specify those parts of the contract to which the IT-SP applies. (i) The Contractor's IT-SP shall comply with applicable Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 (Title III of the E-Government Act of 2002, Public Law 107-347), and the following Federal and HHS policies and procedures: (A) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources. (B) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems, in form and content, and with any pertinent contract Statement of Work/Performance Work Statement (SOW/PWS) requirements. The IT-SP shall identify and document appropriate IT security controls consistent with the sensitivity of the information and the requirements of Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 200, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems. The Contractor shall review and update the IT-SP in accordance with NIST SP 800-26, Security SelfAssessment Guide for Information Technology Systems and FIPS 200, on an annual basis. (C) HHS-OCIO Information Systems Security and Privacy Policy. (ii) After resolution of any comments provided by the Government on the draft IT-SP, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-SP and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract for Contractor implementation and maintenance. On an annual basis, the Contractor shall provide to the Contracting Officer verification that the IT-SP remains valid. (2) IT Risk Assessment (IT-RA)--due within 30 days after contract award. The IT-RA shall be consistent, in form and content, with NIST SP 800-30, Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems, and any additions or augmentations described in the HHS-OCIO Information Systems Security and Privacy Policy. After resolution of any comments provided by the Government on the draft IT-RA, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-RA and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract for Contractor implementation and maintenance. The Contractor shall update the IT-RA on an annual basis. (3) FIPS 199 Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems Assessment (FIPS 199 Assessment)--due within 30 days after contract award. The FIPS 199 Assessment shall be consistent with the cited NIST standard. After resolution of any comments by the Government on

Page 28 of 80

the draft FIPS 199 Assessment, the Contracting Officer shall accept the FIPS 199 Assessment and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract. (4) IT Security Certification and Accreditation (IT-SC&A)--due within 3 months after contract award. The Contractor shall submit written proof to the Contracting Officer that an IT-SC&A was performed for applicable information systems--see paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall perform the ITSC&A in accordance with the HHS Chief Information Security Officer's Certification and Accreditation Checklist; NIST SP 800-37, Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems; and NIST SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems. An authorized senior management official shall sign the draft IT-SC&A and provide it to the Contracting Officer for review, comment, and acceptance. (i) After resolution of any comments provided by the Government on the draft IT-SC&A, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-SC&A and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract as a compliance requirement. (ii) The Contractor shall also perform an annual security control assessment and provide to the Contracting Officer verification that the IT-SC&A remains valid. Evidence of a valid system accreditation includes written results of: (A) Annual testing of the system contingency plan; and (B) The performance of security control testing and evaluation. (d) Personal identity verification. The Contractor shall identify its employees with access to systems operated by the Contractor for HHS or connected to HHS systems and networks. The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) shall identify, for those identified employees, position sensitivity levels that are commensurate with the responsibilities and risks associated with their assigned positions. The Contractor shall comply with the HSPD-12 requirements contained in ``HHS-Controlled Facilities and Information Systems Security'' requirements specified in the SOW/PWS of this contract. (e) Contractor and subcontractor employee training. The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, and those of its subcontractors, performing under this contract complete HHS-furnished initial and refresher security and privacy education and awareness training before being granted access to systems operated by the Contractor on behalf of HHS or access to HHS systems and networks. The Contractor shall provide documentation to the COTR evidencing that Contractor employees have completed the required training. (f) Government access for IT inspection. The Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor's and subcontractors' facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases, and personnel used in performance of this contract to the extent required to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability testing), investigation, and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, confidentiality, and availability, of HHS data or to the protection of information systems operated on behalf of HHS. (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts that require protection of Federal information and Federal information systems as described in paragraph (a) of this clause, including those subcontracts that-(1) Have physical or electronic access to HHS' computer systems, networks, or IT infrastructure; or (2) Use information systems to generate, store, process, or exchange data with HHS or on behalf of HHS, regardless of whether the data resides on a HHS or the Contractor's information system. (h) Contractor employment notice. The Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer when an employee either begins or terminates employment (or is no longer assigned to the HHS project under this contract), if that employee has, or had, access to HHS information systems or data. (i) Document information. The Contractor shall contact the Contracting Officer for any documents, information, or forms necessary to comply with the requirements of this clause. (j) Contractor responsibilities upon physical completion of the contract. The Contractor shall return all HHS information and IT resources provided to the Contractor during contract performance and certify that all HHS information has been purged from Contractor-owned systems used in contract performance.

Page 29 of 80

(k) Failure to comply. Failure on the part of the Contractor or its subcontractors to comply with the terms of this clause shall be grounds for the Contracting Officer to terminate this contract. (End of clause) H.15 Privacy Act (January 2006) This contract requires the Contractor to perform one or more of the following: (a) Design; (b) develop; or (c) operate a Federal agency system of records to accomplish an agency function in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Act) (5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)) and applicable agency regulations. The term ``system of records'' means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. Violations of the Act by the Contractor and/or its employees may result in the imposition of criminal penalties (5 U.S.C. 552a(i)). The Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees knows the prescribed rules of conduct and that each employee is aware that he/she is subject to criminal penalties for violation of the Act to the same extent as HHS employees. These provisions also apply to all subcontracts awarded under this contract which require the design, development or operation of the designated system(s) of records (5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)). The contract work statement: (a) identifies the system(s) of records and the design, development, or operation work to be performed by the Contractor; and (b) specifies the disposition to be made of such records upon completion of contract performance. (End of clause) H.16 HHSAR 352.224-70 Confidentiality of information. (January 2006) (a) Confidential information, as used in this clause, means information or data of a personal nature about an individual, or proprietary information or data submitted by or pertaining to an institution or organization. (b) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information and/or categories of information which the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which is confidential. Similarly, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract. Failure to agree will be settled pursuant to the ``Disputes'' clause. (c) If it is established elsewhere in this contract that information to be utilized under this contract, or a portion thereof, is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act. (d) Confidential information, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, shall not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the individual, institution, or organization. (e) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling of material under the contract, or if the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act or is confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor should obtain a written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication. (f) Contracting Officer determinations will reflect the result of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials. (g) The provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall not apply to conflicting or overlapping provisions in other Federal, State, or local laws. (End of clause)

Page 30 of 80

H.17 Disposition of Data (a) All study documents, instruments, and data sets developed as part of this contract shall be delivered to the Project Officer at specified times during the contract period (see Delivery Schedule). The Contractor shall be responsible for developing, updating, and maintaining all instruments, documents, software, data, and other materials throughout the course of the contract. The Contractor shall not release or use any instruments, documents, software, data, or other materials obtained under this contract without prior written consent of the Government. After contract completion, the Contractor shall retain no information, data, software, source code, or other materials developed or obtained under this contract unless expressly authorized in writing by the Government; all such information, data, software, and other materials shall be delivered to the Government. All information, data, software, source code, or other materials shall be considered the property of the CDC at all times, and shall be delivered to the CDC in copy or original upon request.

(b)

(End of Clause)

Page 31 of 80

Section I - Contract Clauses Section I-1 - Clauses Incorporated By Reference
I.1 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html (End of Clause) I.2 FAR 52.252-6 Authorized Deviations in Clauses (Apr 1984) (a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(Deviation)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any HHSAR (48 CFR Chapter 3) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(Deviation)" after the name of the regulation.

FAR SOURCE 52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-8 52.203-10 52.203-12 52.204-4 52.204-7 52.204-10 52.209-6 52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-10 52.215-11 52.215-12 52.215-13

TITLE AND DATE Definitions (Jan 2012) (Deviations)(HHSAR 352.202-1)(Jan 2006) Gratuities (Apr 1984) Covenant against Contingent Fees (Apr 1984) Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sep 2006) Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010) Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (Jan 1997) Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (Jan 1997) Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Oct 2010) Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (May 2011) Central Contractor Registration (Dec 2012) Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Aug 2012) Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010) Audit and Records - Negotiation (Oct 2010) Alternate II (Apr 1998) Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (Oct 1997) Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (Aug 2011) Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications (Aug 2011) Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data (Oct 2010) Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications (Oct 2010)

Page 32 of 80

52.215-15 52.215-17 52.215-20 52.219-9 52.219-16 52.215-21 52..219-8 52..219-14 52..219-28 52.222-3 52.222-21 52.222-22 52.222-26 52.222-35 52.222-36 52.222-37 52.222-40 52.222-50 52.222-54 52.223-6 52.223-18 52.225-1 52.225-13 52.227-1 52.227-2 52.227-11 52.227-14 52.229-3 52.230-2 52.230-3 52.230-6 52.232-1 52.232-8 52.232-9

Pension Adjustments and Asses Reversions (Oct 2010) Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money (Oct 1997) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data (Oct 2010) Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) - Alternate II (Oct 2001) Liquidated Damages - Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications (Oct 2010) Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) Post-Award Small Business Program Representation (Apr 2012) Convict Labor (Jun 2003) Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999) Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports (Feb 1999) Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) Equal Opportunity Veterans (Sep 2010) Affirmative Action for Workers With Disabilities (Oct 2010) Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) Notification of Employee Rights under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012) Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001) Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) Authorization and Consent (Dec 2007) Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (Dec 2007) Patent Rights -- Ownership by the Contractor (Dec 2007) Rights in Data ­ General (Dec 2007) Federal, State, and Local Taxes (Feb 2013) Cost Accounting Standards (Oct 2010) Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices (Oct 2008) Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (Jun 2010) Payments (Apr 1984) Discounts for Prompt Payment (Feb 2002) Limitation on Withholding of Payments (Apr 1984)

Page 33 of 80

52.232-11 52.232-17 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33 52.233-1 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.242-13 52.243-1 52.244-2 52.244-6 52.245-1 52.246-25 52.247-34 52.247-63 52.248-1 52.249-2 52.249-8 52.253-1 HHSAR SOURCE 352.203-70 352.222-70 352.223-70 352.224-70 352.227-70 352.231-71 352.242-73

Extras (Apr 1984) Interest (Oct 2010) Assignment of Claims (Jan 1986) Prompt Payment (Oct 2008) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) Disputes (Jul 2002) Protest after Award (Aug 1996) Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) Bankruptcy (Jul 1995) Changes - Fixed Price (Aug 1987) - Alternate I (Apr 1984) Subcontracts (Oct 2010) Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Dec 2010) Government Property (Apr 2012) Limitation of Liability - Services (Feb 1997) F.O.B. Destination (Nov 1991) Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers (Jun 2003) Value Engineering (Oct 2010) Termination for the Convenience of the Government (Fixed Price) (Apr 2012) Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Apr 1984) Computer Generated Forms (Jan 1991) TITLE AND DATE Anti-Lobbying (Jan 2006) Contractor Cooperation in Equal Employment Opportunity Investigations (Jan 2010) Safety and Health (January 2006) Privacy Act (January 2006) Publications and Publicity (Jan 2006) Pricing Adjustments (Jan 2001) Withholding of Contract Payments (Jan 2006)

Page 34 of 80

Section I-2 - Clauses Incorporated In Full Text
I.3
HHSAR 352.202-1 Definitions (January 2006)

(a) In accordance with 52.202­1(a)(1), substitute the following as paragraph (a): ``(a) The term ``Secretary'' or ``Head of the Agency'' (also called ``Agency Head'') means the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or any Assistant Secretary, Administrator or Commissioner of the Department of Health and Human Services; and the term ``his/her duly authorized representative'' means any person, persons, or board authorized to act for the Secretary.'' (b) In accordance with 52.202­1(a)(1), add the following paragraph (h): ``(h) The term ``Project Officer'' means the person who monitors the technical aspects of contract performance. The Project Officer is not authorized to issue any instructions or directions which cause any increase or decrease in the scope of work which would result in the increase or decrease in the price of this contract, or changes in the delivery schedule or period of performance of this contract. If applicable, the Project Officer is not authorized to receive or act upon any notification or revised cost estimate provided by the Contractor in accordance with the Limitation of Cost or Limitation of Funds clauses of this contract.'' (End of Clause) I.4 FAR 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within any time period prior to expiration of the contract or any exercised option period ; provided, that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least thirty (30) days [before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years. (End of Clause) I.5 FAR 52.219-4 Notice of Price Evaluation for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (a) Definition. See 13 CFR 125.6(e) for definitions of terms used in paragraph (d). (b) Evaluation preference. (1) Offers will be evaluated by adding a factor of 10 percent to the price of all offers, except-- (i) Offers from HUBZone small business concerns that have not waived the evaluation preference; and (ii) Otherwise successful offers from small business concerns. (2) The factor of 10 percent shall be applied on a line item basis or to any group of items on which award may be made. Other evaluation factors described in the solicitation shall be applied before application of the factor. (3) A concern that is both a HUBZone small business concern and a small disadvantaged business concern will receive the benefit of both the HUBZone small business price evaluation preference and the small

Page 35 of 80

disadvantaged business price evaluation adjustment (see FAR clause 52.219-23). Each applicable price evaluation preference or adjustment shall be calculated i ndependently against an offeror's base offer. These individual preference amounts shall be added together to arrive at the total evaluated price for that offer. (4) When the two highest rated offerors are a HUBZone small business concern and a large business, and the evaluated offer of the HUBZone small business concern is equal to the evaluated offer of the large business after considering the price evaluation preference, award will be made to the HUBZone small business concern. (c) Waiver of evaluation preference. A HUBZone small business concern may elect to waive the evaluation preference, in which case the factor will be added to its offer for evaluation purposes. The agreements in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause do not apply if the offeror has waived the evaluation preference. [_] Offer elects to waive the evaluation preference. (d) Agreement. A HUBZone small business concern agrees that in the performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for (1) Services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern or employees of other HUBZone small business concerns; (2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern or other HUBZone small business concerns; (3) General construction. (i) At least 15 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns; or (4) Construction by special trade contractors. (i) At least 25 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns. (e) A HUBZone joint venture agrees that the aggregate of the HUBZone small business concerns to the joint venture, not each concern separately, will perform the applicable percentage of work requirements. (f) (1) When the total value of the contract exceeds $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer agrees to furnish in performing this contract only end items manufactured or produced by HUBZone small business concern manufacturers.

Page 36 of 80

(2) When the total value of the contract is equal to or less than $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer may provide end items manufactured by other than a HUBZone small business concern manufacturer provided the end items are produced or manufactured in the United States. (3) Paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section do not apply in connection with construction or service contracts. (g) Notice. The HUBZone small business offeror acknowledges that a prospective HUBZone awardee must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award f this contract. The HUBZone offeror shall provide the Contracting Officer a copy of the notice required by 13 CFR 126.501 if material changes occur before contract award that could affect its HUBZone eligibility. If the apparently successful HUBZone offeror is not a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful HUBZone small business concern or other offeror. (End of clause) I.6 FAR 52.232-32 Performance Based Payments (Apr 2012) (a) Amount of payments and limitations on payments. Subject to such other limitations and conditions as are specified in this contract and this clause, the amount of payments and limitations on payments shall be specified in the contract's description of the basis for payment. (b) Contractor request for performance-based payment. The Contractor may submit requests for payment of performance-based payments not more frequently than monthly, in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all performance-based payments in any period for which payment is being requested shall be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled. The Contractor's request shall contain the information and certification detailed in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this clause. (c) Approval and payment of requests. (1) The Contractor shall not be entitled to payment of a request for performance-based payment prior to successful accomplishment of the event or performance criterion for which payment is requested. The Contracting Officer shall determine whether the event or performance criterion for which payment is requested has been successfully accomplished in accordance with the terms of the contract. The Contracting Officer may, at any time, require the Contractor to substantiate the successful performance of any event or performance criterion which has been or is represented as being payable. (2) A payment under this performance-based payment clause is a contract financing payment under the Prompt Payment clause of this contract and not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. The designated payment office will pay approved requests on the _________ [Contracting Officer insert day as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert "30th"] day after receipt of the request for performance-based payment by the designated payment office. However, the designated payment office is not required to provide payment if the Contracting Officer requires substantiation as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, or inquires into the status of an event or performance criterion, or into any of the conditions listed in paragraph (e) of this clause, or into the Contractor certification. The payment period will not begin until the Contracting Officer approves the request. (3) The approval by the Contracting Officer of a request for performance-based payment does not constitute an acceptance by the Government and does not excuse the Contractor from performance of obligations under this contract. (d) Liquidation of performance-based payments. (1) Performance-based finance amounts paid prior to payment for delivery of an item shall be liquidated by deducting a percentage or a designated dollar amount from the delivery payment. If the performance-based finance payments are on a delivery item basis, the liquidation amount for each such line item shall be the percent of that delivery item price that was previously paid under performance-based finance payments or the designated dollar

Page 37 of 80

amount. If the performance-based finance payments are on a whole contract basis, liquidation shall be by either predesignated liquidation amounts or a liquidation percentage. (2) If at any time the amount of payments under this contract exceeds any limitation in this contract, the Contractor shall repay to the Government the excess. Unless otherwise determined by the Contracting Officer, such excess shall be credited as a reduction in the unliquidated performance-based payment balance(s), after adjustment of invoice payments and balances for any retroactive price adjustments. (e) Reduction or suspension of performance-based payments. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend performance-based payments, liquidate performance-based payments by deduction from any payment under the contract, or take a combination of these actions after finding upon substantial evidence any of the following conditions: (1) The Contractor failed to comply with any material requirement of this contract (which includes paragraphs (h) and (i) of this clause). (2) Performance of this contract is endangered by the Contrac tor's-- (i) Failure to make progress; or (ii) Unsatisfactory financial condition. (3) The Contractor is delinquent in payment of any subcontractor or supplier under this contract in the ordinary course of business. (f) Title. (1) Title to the property described in this paragraph (f) shall vest in the Government. Vestiture shall be immediately upon the date of the first performance-based payment under this contract, for property acquired or produced before that date. Otherwise, vestiture shall occur when the property is or should have been allocable or properly chargeable to this contract. (2) "Property," as used in this clause, includes all of the following described items acquired or produced by the Contractor that are or should be allocable or properly chargeable to this contract under sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices: (i) Parts, materials, inventories, and work in process; (ii) Special tooling and special test equipment to which the Government is to acquire title; (iii) Nondurable (i.e., noncapital) tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges, test equipment and other similar manufacturing aids, title to which would not be obtained as special tooling under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this clause; and (iv) Drawings and technical data, to the extent the Contractor or subcontractors are required to deliver them to the Government by other clauses of this contract. (3) Although title to property is in the Government under this clause, other applicable clauses of this contract (e.g., the termination clauses) shall determine the handling and disposition of the property. (4) The Contractor may sell any scrap resulting from production under this contract, without requesting the Contracting Officer's approval, provided that any significant reduction in the value of the property to which the Government has title under this clause is reported in writing to the Contracting Officer. (5) In order to acquire for its own use or dispose of property to which title is vested in the Government under this clause, the Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's advance approval of the action and the terms. If approved, the basis for payment (the events or performance criteria) to which the property is related shall be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable (if the property is part of or needed for performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related performance-based payments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (6) When the Contractor completes all of the obligations under this contract, including liquidation of all performance-based payments, title shall vest in the Contractor for all property (or the proceeds thereof) not -- (i) Delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract; or

Page 38 of 80

(ii) Incorporated in supplies delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract and to which title is vested in the Government under this clause. (7) The terms of this contract concerning liability for Government-furnished property shall not apply to property to which the Government acquired title solely under this clause. (g) Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. If any property is lost (see 45.101), the basis of payment (the events or performance criteria) to which the property is related shall be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable (if the property is part of or needed for performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related performance-based payments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) Records and controls. The Contractor shall maintain records and controls adequate for administration of this clause. The Contractor shall have no entitlement to performance-based payments during any time the Contractor's records or controls are determined by the Contracting Officer to be inadequate for administration of this clause. (i) Reports and Government access. The Contractor shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial statements, and other pertinent information requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration of this clause and to determine that an event or other criterion prompting a financing payment has been successfully accomplished. The Contractor shall give the Government reasonable opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor's records and to examine and verify the Contractor's performance of this contract for administration of this clause. (j) Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the Default clause, (1) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated performance-based payments, and (2) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of all performance-based payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the Default clause of this contract. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default clause. (k) Reservation of rights. (1) No payment or vesting of title under this clause shall-- (i) Excuse the Contractor from performance of obligations under this contract; or (ii) Constitute a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the contract. (2) The Government's rights and remedies under this clause -- (i) Shall not be exclusive, but rather shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or this contract; and (ii) Shall not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall such exercise or any single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this clause or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege of the Government. (l) Content of Contractor's request for performance-based payment. The Contractor's request for performance based payment shall contain the following: (1) The name and address of the Contractor; (2) The date of the request for performance-based payment; (3) The contract number and/or other identifier of the contract or order under which the request is made; (4) Such information and documentation as is required by the contract's description of the basis for payment; and (5) A certification by a Contractor official authorized to bind the Contractor, as specified in paragraph (m) of this clause. (m) Content of Contractor's certification. As required in paragraph (l)(5) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the following certification in each request for performance-based payment: I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that--

Page 39 of 80

(1) This request for performance-based payment is true and correct; this request (and attachments) has been prepared from the books and records of the Contractor, in accordance with the contract and the instructions of the Contracting Officer; (2) (Except as reported in writing on __________), all payments to subcontractors and suppliers under this contract have been paid, or will be paid, currently, when due in the ordinary course of business; (3) There are no encumbrances (except as reported in writing on _________) against the property acquired or produced for, and allocated or properly chargeable to, the contract which would affect or impair the Government's title; (4) There has been no materially adverse change in the financial condition of the Contractor since the submission by the Contractor to the Government of the most recent written information dated _____________; and (5) After the making of this requested performance-based payment, the amount of all payments for each deliverable item for which performance-based payments have been requested will not exceed any limitation in the contract, and the amount of all payments under the contract will not exceed any limitation in the contract. (End of clause)

Page 40 of 80

Section J - List Of Attachments

A

Standard Contractor Performance Report

B

Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Small Business Subcontracting Plan

C

Privacy Act Systems 09-20-0001

Page 41 of 80

Section K - Representations, Certifications, And Other Statements Of Offerors
K.1 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications (Dec 2012) (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541690 [insert NAICS code]. (2) The small business size standard is $14.0 M [insert size standard]. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless -- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. (iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations--Representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, or 2012. (vi) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (vii) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (ix) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

Page 42 of 80

(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. (x) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (xi) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xiii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiv) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA­designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (xv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA­designated items. (xvi) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvii) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternates I, II, and III.) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $77,494, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (D) If the acquisition value is $77,494 or more but is less than $100,000, the provision with its Alternate III applies. (xviii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xix) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xx) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xxi) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-- (A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. (2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (i) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. __ (A) Basic. __ (B) Alternate I. __ (ii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.

Page 43 of 80

__ (iii) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. __ (iv) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services­Certification. __ (v) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­ Designated Products (Alternate I only). __ (vi) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. __ (A) Basic. __(B) Alternate I. __ (vii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR CLAUSE # ____________ TITLE _________ DATE _____ CHANGE _______

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of provision)

K.2 Contact for Negotiation/Administration (May 1998) Designate a person we may contact for contract administration in the event your firm receives a contract as a result of this solicitation: Name: ________________________________ Title: ____________________________________ Address: ____________________________________________________________________________ (Street) (City) (State) (Zip Code) Area Code: _____ Telephone: _______________________ Bidder/Offeror is located in _________ Congressional District. Contract will be performed in ___________________________________________________________ (State) (City) (Congressional District) (End of Clause) K.3 Certification (May 1998) TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFEROR: (The Offeror must check or complete all appropriate boxes or blanks in

Page 44 of 80

the Representations and Certifications contained herein). The Representations and Certifications must be executed below, by an individual authorized to bind the offeror. The offeror makes the forgoing Representations and Certifications as a part of it's proposal. ____________________________________________ ___________________________ (Name of offeror) (Solicitation Number) ____________________________________________ (Signature of Authorized Individual) (Date) ___________________________

_____________________________________________________________________________________ (Typed Name of Authorized Individual) Note: The penalty for making false statements in offerors is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001. (End of Clause)

Page 45 of 80

Section L - Instructions, Conditions, And Notices To Offerors
L.1 FAR 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.acqnet.gov http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ [Insert one or more Internet addresses] (End of Provision)

FAR SOURCE 52.204-6 52.214-34 52.214-35 52.215-16

TITLE AND DATE Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number (Dec 2012) Submission of Offers in the English Language (Apr 1991) Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency (Apr 1991) Facilities Capital Cost of Money (Jun 2003)

L.2 FAR 52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors - Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision ­ "Discussions" are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting Officer's discretion, result in the offeror being allowed to revise its proposal." "In writing," "writing," or "written" means any worded or numbered expression which can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes electronically transmitted and stored information. "Proposal modification" is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation's closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award. "Proposal revision" is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer as the result of negotiations. "Time," if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next working day. (b) Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s). (c) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.

Page 46 of 80

(1) Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in the solicitation, proposals and modifications to proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the offeror. Offerors using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost wrapper with the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision. (2) The first page of the proposal must show ­ (i) The solicitation number; (ii) The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the offeror (and electronic address if available); (iii) A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation and agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item; (iv) Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate on the offeror's behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and (v) Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent's authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office. (3) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (i) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modification, or revisions, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due. (ii)(A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and ­ (1) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals; or (2) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (3) It is the only proposal received. (B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (iii) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (iv) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be

Page 47 of 80

deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (v) Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award. (4) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items. (5) Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation, and in U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is included in the solicitation. (6) Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award. (7) Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer. (8) Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting Officer. (d) Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror). (e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall ­ (1) Mark the title page with the following legend: This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed ­ in whole or in part ­ for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror as a result of ­ or in connection with ­ the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government's right to use i nformation contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets [ insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and (2) Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal. (f) Contract award. (1) The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror(s) whose proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the solicitation. (2) The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government's interest. (3) The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.

Page 48 of 80

(4) The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror's initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals. (5) The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal. (6) The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the Government's best interest to do so. (7) Exchanges with offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government. (8) The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government. (9) If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance or schedule risk. (10) A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time specified in the proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. (11) If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (i) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (ii) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (iii) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (iv) A summary of the rationale for award. (v) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (vi) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. (End of Provision) L.3 352.215-1 Instructions to offerors--Competitive acquisition. Insert the following paragraph (e) in place of paragraph (e) of the provision at FAR 52.215-1: (e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data.

Page 49 of 80

(1) The proposal submitted in response to this request may contain data (trade secrets; business data, e.g., commercial information, financial information, and cost and pricing data; and technical data) which the offeror, including its prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the proposal. The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted; provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the following statements, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted: ``Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information (FOI) officials of the Department of Health and Human Services, data contained in the portions of this proposal which have been specifically identified by page number, paragraph, etc. by the offeror as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for evaluation purposes. The offeror acknowledges that the Department may not be able to withhold a record (data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record requested pursuant to the Act and that the Department's FOI officials must make that determination. The offeror hereby agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure if the Department has determined that disclosure is required by the Act. If a contract is awarded to the offeror as a result of, or in connection with, the submission of this proposal, the Government shall have the right to use or disclose the data to the extent provided in the contract. Proposals not resulting in a contract remain subject to the Act. The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose, including the release of the information pursuant to requests under the Act. The data subject to this restriction are contained in pages (insert page numbers, paragraph designations, etc. or other identification).'' (2) In addition, the offeror must mark each page of data it wishes to restrict with the following statement: ``Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restriction on the cover sheet of this proposal or quotation.'' (3) Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive statements or statements differing in substance from those cited above may not be considered for award. The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with nonconforming statement(s). L.4 FAR 52.215-20 Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data (Oct 2010) (a) Excep(a) Exceptions from certified cost or pricing data. (1) In lieu of submitting certified cost or pricing data, offerors may submit a written request for exception by submitting the information described in the following paragraphs.The Contracting Officer may require additional supporting information, but only to the extent necessary to determine whether an exception should be granted, and whether the price is fair and reasonable. (i) Identification of the law or regulation establishing the price offered . If the price is controlled under law by periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a governmental body, attach a copy of the controlling document, unless it was previously submitted to the contracting office. (ii) Commercial item exception. For a commercial item exception, the offeror shall submit, at a minimum, information on prices at which the same item or similar items have previously been sold in the commercial market that is adequate for evaluating the reasonableness of the price for this acquisition. Such information may include -- (A) For catalog items, a copy of or identification of the catalog and its date, or the appropriate pages for the offered items, or a statement that the catalog is on file in the buying office to which the proposal is being submitted. Provide a copy or describe current discount policies and price lists (published or unpublished), e.g., wholesale, original equipment manufacturer, or reseller. Also explain the basis of each offered price and its relationship to the established catalog price, including how the proposed price relates to the price of recent sales in quantities similar to the proposed quantities; (B) For market-priced items, the source and date or period of the market quotation or other basis for market price, the base amount, and applicable discounts. In addition, describe the nature of the market;

Page 50 of 80

(C) For items included on an active Federal Supply Service Multiple Award Schedule contract, proof that an exception has been granted for the schedule item. (2) The offeror grants the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the right to examine, at any time before award, books, records, documents, or other directly pertinent records to verify any request for an exception under this provision, and the reasonableness of price. For items priced using catalog or market prices, or law or regulation, access does not extend to cost or profit information or other data relevant solely to the offeror's determination of the prices to be offered in the catalog or marketplace. (b) Requirements for certified cost or pricing data. If the offeror is not granted an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data, the following applies: (1) The offeror shall prepare and submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments in accordance with the instructions contained in Table 15-2 of FAR 15.408, which is incorporated by reference with the same force and effect as though it were inserted here in full text. The instructions in Table 15-2 are incorporated as a mandatory format to be used in this contract, unless the Contracting Officer and the Contractor agree to a different format and change this clause to use Alternate I. (2) As soon as practicable after agreement on price, but before contract award (except for unpriced actions such as letter contracts), the offeror shall submit a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, as prescribed by FAR 15.4062. (End of provision) L.5 FAR 52.216-1 Type of Contract (Apr 1984) The Government contemplates award of a Firm Fixed Price [Contracting Officer insert specific type of contract] contract resulting from this solicitation. (End of Provision) L.6 52.233-2 Service of Protest (Sept 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 31.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Larry E. Guess, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Acquisition Branch 4, Post Office Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, B-140, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-0070. [Contracting Officer designate the official or location where a protest may be served on the Contracting Officer.] (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision) L.7 General Instructions (Negotiated) (Jan 2000) (a) Offerors are invited to submit a proposal in response to this solicitation. All proposals received will become part of the official file. (b) The following instructions establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals. (c) Your proposal must be prepared in separate parts as instructed herein. Each part shall be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of evaluation of the other(s). The technical proposal (if required) must not contain reference to cost; however, resource information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, material, subcontracts, etc., must be contained in the technical proposal so that your understanding of the Statement of Work can be evaluated. The technical proposal (if required) must disclose your

Page 51 of 80

technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation that addresses, but is not limited to, the requirements of the technical proposal instructions. (d) The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization. You must submit in one (1) original and five (5) copies each separate detachable business/cost and technical response copies of your proposal to: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Acquisition Branch 4 Post Office Box 18070 626 Cochrans Mill Road - B-140 Pittsburgh PA 15236-0070 Attn: John J. Carolan Solicitation No. 2013-N-15006 (e) Offerors are requested to submit proposals, to the maximum extent possible, on high grade white paper which can be recycled. (f) Facsimile proposals are not authorized unless this solicitation incorporates FAR 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals, in Section L. (g) The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award. (End of Provision) L.8 Technical Proposal Instructions (Feb 2000) (a) Proposals which merely offer to conduct a program in accordance with the requirements of the Gov ernment's statement of work will not be eligible for award. The technical proposal should be in as much detail as considered necessary to reflect a clear understanding of the nature of the work being undertaken. (b) The technical proposal must not contain reference to cost; however, resource information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, material, subcontracts, etc., must be contained in the technical proposal so that the offeror's understanding of the work can be evaluated. (c) Offerors must, at a minimum, address each of the following technical evaluation criteria: (1) Understanding the Purpose and Objectives Provide a narrative summary of the purpose and objectives of the contract. (2) Management Approach a. Provide a management plan describing the offeror's approach for managing the work, including its on-site management organization, supervisory responsibility, lines of authority, assigned responsibilities, management of consultants, and procedures for tracking project progress, risks, problems, project-related costs and time. Discuss management practices and resources to be used for recruiting efforts for new and replacement personnel. Discuss personnel management practices with respect to how the offeror minimizes employee turnover, encourages employee excellence, provides career development counseling and training, procedures utilized for evaluation of personnel, etc. b. Provide a Subcontracting Plan as well as a narrative summary of management practices utilized to select and award subcontracts, evaluation of subcontractor performance, and quality control procedures.

Page 52 of 80

(3) Technical Approach Provide a discussion on the approach to be utilized to accomplish the task for each activity outlined in the statement of work. Include a discussion of anticipated major difficulties and problem areas, together with recommended approaches for their resolution. (4) Personnel and Facilities and Equipment a. Provide a staffing plan which demonstrates an understanding of the labor requirements of this RFP. The staffing plan should include proposed professional personnel, key personnel, non-professional personnel, consultants, and key subcontracts/subcontractor personnel. List the names, titles, proposed duties, and hours or approximate percentage of time each individual should be allocated to the contact. Their resumes should be included and should contain information on educational background, recent experience, and specific scientific or technical accomplishments. For individuals proposed who are not current employees of the firm, include signed employment acceptance letters contingent (or not) on contract award. The signed employment acceptance letters should not be more than 60 days old from the time of proposal submission. If signed acceptance letters are not available, as a minimum include a position description for each position that demonstrates mandatory qualification requirements to include educational and experience requirements, description of duties, salary range, etc. for the position. Any such proposed standards will become the minimum qualification requirements for new or replacement personnel employed under a contract resulting from this RFP. b. Provide a discussion of present or proposed physical facilities (office space, training space, equipment, computing environment, etc.) and their geographic location. (5) Corporate Experience Provide the general background, experience, and qualifications of the organization. Provide a list of previous or ongoing Government or non-Government contracts, subcontracts, or grants, similar or related in scope, magnitude, and complexity. Provide a general description of the work performed and describe how the work is related to the requirements of the RFP. Format Submit the Technical Proposal in the following format: Technical/Management Proposal Outline Executive Summary Table of Contents List of Figures Introduction Overview of Objectives, Background, and Approach Special Topics Include a detailed concise presentation of each of the following special topics: - See Section M - Evaluation Factors for Award, Sub-Section M.1 Evaluation Factors - Please refer to Section M - Evaluation Factors for Award, Sub-Section M.1, Evaluation Factors, for the rationale and precise criteria by which proposals resulting from this solicitation will be evaluated. Management Aspects Corporate Organization and Experience Key Personnel/Area of Expertise Project Organization Organization and Personnel (including any field staff) Schedule

Page 53 of 80

Project Plans and Technical Approach General Approach Management Plan Staffing Plan Quality Control Procedures Confidentiality and Security Provisions Detailed outline of proposed Automated Information Systems (AIS) Security Program Past Performance Information (End of Provision) L.9 Instructions for Submitting Other Than Cost or Pricing Data Instruction for Submitting Other Than Cost or Pricing Data Table 15-2 provides information for use by offerors to submit information to the Government when cost or pricing data are not required but the contracting officer has requested information to help establish price reasonableness or cost realism. Such information is not considered cost or pricing data, and shall not be certified in accordance with 15.804-4. A. The information submitted shall be at the level of detail described in the solicitation or specified by the contracting officer. The offeror's own format is acceptable unless the contracting officer determines that use of a specific format is essential. 1. If adequate price competition is expected, the information may include cost or technical information necessary to determine the cost realism and adequacy of the offeror's proposal, e.g., information adequate to validate that the proposed costs are consistent with the technical proposal, or cost breakdowns to help identify unrealistically priced proposals. 2. If the offer is expected to be at or below the cost or pricing data threshold, and adequate price competition is not expected, the information may consist of data to permit the contracting officer and authorized representatives to determine price reasonableness, e.g., information to support an analysis of material costs (when sufficient information on labor and overhead rates is already available), or information on prices and quantities at which the offeror has previously sold the same or similar items. B. Any information submitted must support the price proposed. Include sufficient detail or cross references to clearly establish the relationship of the information provided to the price proposed. Support any information provided by explanations or supporting rationale as needed to permit the contracting officer and authorized representatives to evaluate the documentation. L.10 Business Proposal Instructions (Apr 2000) The business proposal shall be comprised of the following elements: (a) Contract Form and Representation and Certifications The contract form found in Part I, Section A, the completed Section B, and the Representations and Certifications contained in Part IV, Section K, of this Request for Proposals must be executed by an official authorized to bind the offeror. (b) Contract Proposal Cover Sheet The cover sheet of your Business Proposal must comply with FAR Table 15-2, which requires the following information (as applicable): Solicitation, contract, or modification number;

Page 54 of 80

Name and address of offeror; Name and telephone number of point of contact; Name, address, and telephone number of Cognizant Contract Administration Office; Name, address, and telephone number of Cognizant Audit Office; Proposed cost, profit or fee (as applicable) per year and total for all years. Whether your organization is subject to cost accounting standards; whether your organization has submitted a CASB Disclosure Statement, and if it has been determined adequate; whether you have been notified that you are or may be in noncompliance with your Disclosure Statement or CAS, and, if yes, an explanation; whether any aspect of this proposal is inconsistent with your disclosed practices or applicable CAS, and, if so, an explanation; and whether the proposal is consistent with your established estimating and accounting principles and procedures and FAR Part 31 , Cost Principles, and, if not, an explanation The following statement: "This proposal reflects our estimates and/or actual costs as of this date and conforms with the instructions set forth in FAR 15.403-5(b)(1) and FAR Table 15-2. By submitting this proposal, the offeror, if selected for discussions, grants to Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the right to examine, at any time prior to award, any of those books, records, documents, or other records directly pertinent to the information requested or submitted."; Date of submission; Name, title, and signature of authorized representative. (c) Cost Data Information You must submit, as a minimum, a business proposal supported by detailed cost data. This cost data will be used to establish the reasonableness of the proposed amounts as well as to perform any required cost realism analysis. If applicable, the estimated cost of each phase, option or segment of the offered work shall be itemized. In addition, the total proposed amount, including all phases, options or segments shall be provided. Inasmuch as it may be necessary to authorize performance of the project by phases or a group of phases, the extent that these are severable should be indicated, together with the effect, if any, of such severance upon the estimated cost. The itemized cost and the rationale for individual cost categories shall be furnished as follows: (1) Direct Labor: Provide a time-phased (e.g., monthly, quarterly, annually, etc.) breakdown of labor hours, rates, and cost by appropriate category, and furnish basis for labor hour and labor rate estimates (if direct labor rates are based on a current salary schedule, provide the salary schedule as an attachment. Otherwise, provide an excerpt of the current payroll register, tracing the individual or category to the rates being proposed); (2) Fringe Benefits: Show fringe benefits as a separate cost category. Include the rate(s) and the method of calculating the fringe benefits. Provide a copy of the fringe benefit rate and institutional guidelines; (3) Materials and Services: Provide a consolidated priced summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or contract line items being proposed and the basis for pricing (vendor quotes, invoice prices, etc.). Include raw materials, parts, components, assemblies, and services to be produced or performed by others. For all items proposed, identify the item and show the source, quantity, price, and extent of competition; (4) Subcontracted Items: Conduct price analyses of all subcontractor proposals. Conduct cost analyses for all cost reimbursement type subcontracts. Include these analyses as part of your own cost submissions for subcontracts (see FAR Subpart 44.2 for information required to support a request for subcontract consent); (5) Travel: Provide the cost of travel including destination, duration, purpose, per diem, transportation, and the basis for the proposed costs. A copy of your corporate travel policy shall be submitted with your proposal if travel costs have been proposed; (6) Other Direct Costs: Provide a breakdown of all other costs not otherwise included in the categories listed above (e.g. computer services, consultant services, photocopying costs) and provide the basis for these proposed costs; (7) Indirect Costs: Indicate how you have computed and applied your indirect costs, including cost breakdowns. Show trends and budgetary data to provide a basis for evaluating the reasonableness of proposed rates. Indicate the

Page 55 of 80

rates used and provide an appropriate explanation. Provide a copy of your current approved indirect cost rate agreement, including location and application of indirect cost rates to this proposal (including major subcontracts); (8) Royalties: If royalties exceed $1,500, you must provide the following information on a separate page for each separate royalty or license fee: Name and address of licensor; Date of license agreement; Patent numbers; Patent application serial numbers; or other basis on which the royalty is payable; Brief description (including any part or model numbers of each contract item or component on which the royalty is payable); Percentage or dollar rate of royalty per unit; Unit price of contract item; Number of units; Total dollar amount of royalties; If specifically requested by the Contracting Officer, a copy of the current license agreement and identification of applicable claims of specific patents (see FAR 27.204 and 31.205-37); (9) Facilities Capital Cost of Money: If you elect to claim facilities capital cost of money as an allowable cost, you must submit Form CASB-CMF and show the calculation of the proposed amount (see FAR 31.205-10). (d) Accounting System In the event you do not have a Government approved accounting system and/or have never had a Government cost reimbursement contract, the following is required (include major subcontracts) to be submitted with your proposal: Description of your present accounting system and any changes contemplated as a result of your proposal; Make-up or basis for the indirect cost rate(s) you propose in response to this RFP; Current financial statement (balance sheet and/or profit and loss statement for the last two years). (e) Subcontracting Plan The offeror, prior to being awarded a contract, must submit an acceptable subcontracting plan (see FAR 52.219-9) or demonstrate that no subcontracting opportunities exist. (Note: This requirement does not apply to small business concerns or to offers which do not exceed $650,000.00 ($1,000,000.00 for construction) or to offers from nondomestic concerns.) (f) Other Administrative Data Your proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP. In addition, it must contain a statement to the effect that it is firm for a period of at least 60 days from the date of receipt by the Government; List name and telephone number of person to contact regarding your proposed accounting system; Your proposal must list any current commitments with the Government relating to the work or services and indicate whether these commitments will or will not interfere with the completion of work and services as contemplated under this proposal; Your proposal must identify any former HHS employee to be utilized on this project by providing the individual's name when employed by HHS, where employed, and the capacity in which employed; Your proposal must indicate whether you have the necessary financial capacity, working capital, and other resources to perform the contract without assistance from any outside source. (If not, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source.); It is HHS policy that contractors provide all equipment and facilities necessary for performance of contracts; however, in some instances, an exception may be granted to furnish Government furnished property or to authorize purchase with contract funds. If additional equipment must be acquired, you must include in your proposal a description and the estimated cost of each item, and state whether you propose to furnish the item with your own funds. You must identify all Government-owned property in your possession that you propose to use in performing the prospective contract. The Optional Form 310, entitled, Protection of Human Subjects, Assurance Identification/Certification/Declaration shall be completed, signed, and returned with your proposal if human subjects will be involved in any research activities; A Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data (See FAR 15.406-2) shall be submitted prior to award if requested by the Contracting Officer/

Page 56 of 80

(End of Clause) L.11 Past Performance Information (Jan 2000) (a) Each offeror will be evaluated, in accordance with Section M of the RFP, on their past performance under existing and prior contracts. (b) Offerors shall submit the past performance information as part of their business proposal. The offeror should include the last six (6) contracts completed during the past three years and all contracts currently in process for both the offeror and all proposed major subcontractors. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers. Offerors that are newly formed entities without prior contracts should list contracts and subcontracts as required above for predecessor companies, corporate officers, proposed key personnel who have relevant experience, or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement. The following information should be included for each contract listed: 1. Name of Contracting Organization; 2. Contract Number; 3. Description of services provided under the contract and the ways the services performed are relevant to the services required under this RFP; 4. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, e-mail address (if known) and facsimile numbers of the Contracting Officer and the Project Officer for all Government contracts. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and facsimile numbers of private sector contacts equivalent of a Federal Government Contracting Officer and Project Officer (operation manager) 5. The dollar value of the contract; 6. Contract type (Firm-fixed price, cost-plus-fixed-fee, etc.); 7. Period of Performance; 8. Place of performance; 9. The number and type of personnel assigned in performance of the contract; 10. Information on problems encountered on the identified contracts and the offeror's corrective actions; 11. Copies of the most recent Past Performance Evaluation issued to the offeror under each contract listed. (End of Provision) L.12 Inquiries (May 1998) Inquiries concerning the solicitation document should be submitted in writing to the issuing office. Any additions, deletions, or changes to the solicitation will be made by an amendment. OFFERORS ARE INSTRUCTED SPECIFICALLY TO CONTACT ONLY THE SOLICITATION CONTRACTING OFFICE IN CONNECTION WITH ANY ASPECT OF THIS REQUIREMENT PRIOR TO CONTRACT AWARD. PROPOSALS AND ALL CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO THE SOLICITATION DOCUMENT SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE CONTRACTING OFFICE. Inquiries should be received at the Contracting Office no later than 04/08/2013, and maybe submitted via facsimile to 412-386-6429, via e-mail to JCAROLAN@CDC.GOV or mailed hard copy to the address shown as the issuing office on the cover sheet of the solicitation. (End of Provision) L.13 Incurring Costs (May 1998) This solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed acquisition. (End of Provision)

2013-N-15006 Page 57 of 80

Section M - Evaluation Factors For Award
M.1 Evaluation Factors This section is intended to explain the rationale and criteria by which proposals resulting from this solicitation will be evaluated. Offerors are advised that they are not restricted as to what is presented in their proposals, as long as sufficient material is provided to allow evaluation of specific proposal elements defined below. Proposals submitted in response to this solicitation will be evaluated for technical acceptability under criteria A through C below. The Government will proceed to evaluate the Past Performance Information (Criteria D) of those offerors found to be technically acceptable under Elements A through C and will add the Criteria D score to the offeror's preliminary score. The Government will then establish a competitive range based upon each offeror's total technical evaluation score and pricing proposal. A. Responsiveness in meeting or exceeding the stated statement of objectives (Weight: 50% points) B. Technical Expertise: In this solicitation, we are seeking highly technical expertise in several different areas, such as physician radiologists, diagnostic digital imaging technical experts, and educational specialists to provide the necessary combination of expertise. The successful contractor will need expertise in chest radiography, specifically in the classification of chest radiographs using the International Labour Organization classification system for the pneumoconiosis; in management and appropriate display of diagnostic digital chest radiographic images; and in educational training and testing of trainees to document their knowledge and competence in classifying chest images. The contractor will also need expertise to use appropriate software platforms to develop the necessary training and certification testing products. Therefore, the contractor must maintain access to consultants or employees with the demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities required to complete the terms of the contract. Contractor must have documented training, expertise, and reputation relevant to the specified task (Weight: 30% points) C. Past Experience: The proposal documents appropriate experience, particularly as evidenced by successful and timely development, design, and completion of similar tasks to those specified in this contract (Weight: 20% points) D. Past Performance +/- 10 Points Offerors may identify past or current contracts (including Federal, State, and local government and private) for efforts similar to the requirement described in this solicitation. Offerors may provide information on problems encountered on the identified contracts and the offeror's corrective actions. Offerors may also include information regarding predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience, or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement when such information is relevant. Past performance data will be evaluated on the basis of the offeror's demonstrated record of completing work in an accurate and timely fashion. Also evaluated will be the record of managing work independently without requiring intervention or support from the customer. Offerors may provide information which demonstrates a successful track record of managing an audit program within the past 18 months. This may be shown by giving performance data on deadlines for advance planning, reporting, and follow-up activities and how often such deadlines are met. Also considered is how frequently the offeror's output is accepted without the need for rework or revision. Offerors without a record of relevant past performance will receive no points in this category. Offerors with a record of relevant past performance will have up to 10 points added to their score based on a favorable evaluation or up to 10 points deducted based on an unfavorable evaluation. M.2 Past Performance Evaluation (Numerical Scoring) (Nov 1999) Past performance information will be evaluated in the following manner.

2013-N-15006 Page 58 of 80

(a) Each offeror shall be evaluated on its past performance under current and prior contracts. By past performance, the Government means the offeror's record of conforming to specifications and to standards of good workmanship; the contractor's record of forecasting and controlling costs; the offeror's adherence to contract schedules and terms, including the administrative aspects of performance; the offeror's reputation for reasonable and cooperative behavior and commitment to customer satisfaction; and generally, the offeror's business-like concern for the interest of the customer and the degree of quality of deliverables and performance. (b) The Government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance for similar services relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration. (c) The Government will evaluate the quality of the offeror's past performance based on collaborated past performance evaluations included in the offerors proposal and/or other information obtained from references provided by the offeror, as well as other relevant past performance information obtained from other sources known to the Government. The Government may or may not survey all contracts listed by the offeror, and reserves the right to perform customer surveys only for those contracts which are deemed by the Government to be most relevant to this procurement. The Customer/Client Survey Letter and the Past Performance Survey Document included as attachments under Section J will be used by the Government to gather any required past performance evaluations. (d) The scoring of past performance will be based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances. It will not be based on absolute standards of acceptable performance. (e) The assessment of the offerors past performance will be used as a means of evaluating the relative capability of the offeror and the other competitors. Thus, an offeror with an exceptional record of relevant past performance may receive a more favorable evaluation than another whose record is acceptable and/or less relevant, even though both may have acceptable technical and business proposals. (f) An offeror without a record of past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably. (g) Information provided by Offerors, as requested under Section L herein, relating to problems encountered on the identified contracts and the Offeror's corrective actions will be considered when unfavorable reports of past performance are received. If award will be made without conducting discussions, offerors may be given the opportunity clarify certain aspects of past performance information (e.g. relevance of an offeror's past performance information and averse past performance which the offeror has not previously had an opportunity to respond). Communications may be held with Offerors to obtain additional information regarding adverse past performance when required for making a competitive range determination. If discussions are held Offerors will be given an opportunity to address unfavorable reports of past performance. Recent contracts will be examined to ensure that corrective measures have been implemented. (h) Evaluation of past performance information will be reflected in terms of the following degrees of performance assessment: +10 Excellent: A significant majority of the sources of information are consistently firm in stating that the offeror's performance was superior and that they would unhesitatingly do business with the offeror again. Complaints are negligible or unfounded. The offeror has no record of criminal conduct, civil fraud, or negligence, or the record is old and the offeror has demonstrated by more recent performance that corrective action has made the likelihood of such conduct in the future highly improbably. No doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the Government's requirements as stated in the RFP. +05 Good: Most sources of information state that the offeror's performance was good, better than average, etc., and that they would willingly do business with the offeror again. Complaints, though perhaps well-founded, are few and relatively minor. The offeror has no record of criminal conduct, civil fraud, or negligence, or the record is old and the offeror has demonstrated by more recent performance that corrective action has made the likelihood of such conduct in the future highly improbable. Little doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the Government's requirements as stated in the RFP.

2013-N-15006 Page 59 of 80

0 Neutral: Either no past performance history exists for the corporation, predecessor companies, key personnel, or major/critical subcontractors, or the offeror's record of past performance was neither predominantly favorable nor unfavorable. Sources of information are roughly divided over the quality of the offeror's performance. While some state that they would do business with the offeror again, others are doubtful or would not. Complaints are balanced by reports of good work. The offeror has no record of criminal conduct, civil fraud, or negligence, or the record is old. There is no performance record for the offeror. -05 Marginal: Many sources of information made unfavorable reports about the offeror's performance and either express serious doubts about doing business with the offeror again or state that they would refuse to do so. However, there are some favorable reports, and some sources of information indicate that they would do business with the offeror again. There are many significant, serious, and well-founded complaints, but there are some reports of very good performance. The offeror may have been indicted, pled guilty, or may have been found guilty in matters of criminal conduct, but the issues are unresolved, relatively minor, or do not reflect a company-wide or managerial pattern of wrongdoing. The offeror may have lost civil suits for fraud or negligence, but there is no company-wide or managerial pattern of fraudulent, negligent, or criminal conduct. Some doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the Government's requirements as stated in the RFP. -10 Poor: A significant majority of sources of information are consistently firm in stating that the offeror's performance was entirely unsatisfactory and that they would not do business with the offeror again under any circumstances. Customer complaints are substantial or numerous and are well-founded. Or, although not debarred or suspended, the offeror is under indictment or has been convicted of criminal conduct, or has been found civilly liable for fraud or negligence. The offeror either has presented no persuasive evidence of having taken appropriate corrective action that will guard against such conduct in the foreseeable future, or it appears unlikely that the corrective action will be effective. Serious doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the Government requirements as stated in the RFP. (End of Provision) M.3 Technical Strength More Important than Cost/Price (Jan 2000) Offerors are advised that in proposal evaluation paramount consideration shall be given to technical proposals rather than to cost or price unless, as a result of technical evaluations, proposals are judged to be essentially equal, in which case cost or price shall become the determining factor. Furthermore, cost/price will be evaluated on the basis of cost realism which is defined as the offeror's ability to project costs which are reasonable and indicate that the offeror understands the nature and extent of the work to be performed. Discussions, if held, will be conducted only with those offerors determined to be within the competitive range. Award shall be made to that responsible offeror submitting the proposal (Technical and Business) determined to be the most advantageous and the best value to the Government as evaluated under the criteria described in this Section. (End of Clause)

2013-N-15006 Page 60 of 80

Attachments
Attachment A Standard Contractor Performance Report

Evaluation Type: Interim _ Final _ (check one) Evaluating Organization: Contracting Office: Contractor Name:

Reporting Period: From Contract Number: Contractor Address:

to Order Number:

DUNS: Additional or Alternate Contractor Name:

City: Zip/Postal Code:

State: Country:

TIN:

Industrial Code (NAICS):

Commodity Code:

Contract Type: Contract Value:

Contract Award Date: Requirement Description:

Contract Expiration Date:

Ratings Summarize contractor performance and check the number which corresponds to the rating for each rating category (See attached Rating Guidelines).

Quality of Product or Service _0=Unsatisfactory _1=Poor _2=Fair _3=Good _4=Excellent _5=Outstanding Government Comments for Quality of Product or Service (2000 characters maximum):

Cost Control (Rating and Comments for Cost Control are not required if contract type is Fixed-Price) _0=Unsatisfactory _1=Poor _2=Fair _3=Good _4=Excellent _5=Outstanding Government Comments for Cost Control (2000 characters maximum):

Timeliness of Performance _0=Unsatisfactory _1=Poor _2=Fair _3=Good _4=Excellent _5=Outstanding Government Comments for Timeliness of Performance (2000 characters maximum):

Business Relations _0=Unsatisfactory _1=Poor _2=Fair _3=Good _4=Excellent _5=Outstanding Government Comments for Business Relations (2000 characters maximum):

2013-N-15006 Page 61 of 80

Additional Info Subcontracts Are subcontracts involved? __Yes __No (Check one) Government Comment on subcontracts (2000 characters maximum):

Contractor Key Personnel Contractor Manager/Principal Investigator (name): Government Comment on Contractor Manager/Principal Investigator (2000 characters maximum):

Contractor Key Person (name): Government Comment on Contractor Key Person (2000 characters maximum):

Contractor Key Person (name): Government Comment on Contractor Key Person (2000 characters maximum):

Small Business Subcontracting Plan Did the contractor make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan consistent with the goals and objectives, reporting and other aspects of the plan? _Yes _No _N/A (Check one)

If this is a bundled contract, did the contractor meet the goals and objectives for small business participation? _Yes _No _N/A (Check one) Government Comments on Small Business Subcontracting Plan (2000 characters maximum):

Small Disadvantaged Business Goals Did the contractor make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan consistent with the goals and objectives, for small disadvantaged business (SDB) participation, monetary targets for SDB participation, and required notifications? _Yes _No _N/A (Check one) Government Comments on Small Disadvantaged Business Goals (2000 characters maximum): Customer Satisfaction Is/was the contractor committed to customer satisfaction? _Yes _No (Check one) Would you recommend the selection of this firm again? _Yes _No (Check one) ­ FINAL REPORT ONLY

Government Comments on Customer Satisfaction (2000 characters maximum):

2013-N-15006 Page 62 of 80

Admin Info Project Officer/COTR Name: Phone: Fax: E-mail Address:

Contractor Representative Name: Phone: Fax: E-mail Address:

Alternate Contractor Representative (Required to insure that at least one person is notified of evaluation) Name: Phone: Fax: E-mail Address:

Contracting Officer: Name: Phone: Fax: E-mail Address: Contractor Comments Quality of Product of Service ___Contractor has elected not to comment Contractor Comments for Quality of Product of Service (2000 characters maximum): Cost Control ___Contractor has elected not to comment Contractor Comments for Quality of Product of Service (2000 characters maximum): Timeliness of Performance ___Contractor has elected not to comment Contractor Comments for Timeliness of Performance (2000 characters maximum): Business Relations ___Contractor has elected not to comment Contractor Comments for Business Relations (2000 characters maximum):

2013-N-15006 Page 63 of 80

Overall Comment ___Contractor has elected not to comment Contractor Comments for Quality of Product of Service (2000 characters maximum): Rating Guidelines Quality of Product or Service 0 = Unsatisfactory 1 = Poor 2 = Fair 3 = Good 4 = Excellent 5 = Outstanding

Unsatisfactory Non-conformances are jeopardizing the achievement of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources. Recovery is not likely. If performance cannot be substantially corrected, it constitutes a significant impediment in consideration for future awards containing similar requirements. Poor Fair Good Excellent Overall compliance requires significant Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Overall compliance requires minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. There are no, or very minimal, quality problems, and the Contractor has met the contract requirements. There are no quality issues, and the Contractor has substantially exceeded the contract performance requirements without commensurate additional costs to the Government. The contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level that was significantly in excess of anticipated achievements and is commendable as an example for others, so that it justifies adding a point to the score. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances where contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as "Excellent".

Outstanding

Cost Control 0 = Unsatisfactory 1 = Poor 2 = Fair 3 = Good 4 = Excellent 5 = Outstanding

Unsatisfactory Ability to manage cost issues is jeopardizing performance of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources. Recovery is not likely. If performance cannot be substantially corrected, this level of ability to manage cost issues constitutes a significant impediment in consideration for future awards. Poor Ability to manage cost issues requires significant Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Ability to control cost issues requires minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. There are no, or very minimal, cost management issues and the Contractor has met the contract requirements. There are no cost management issues and the Contractor has exceeded the contract requirements, achieving cost savings to the Government. The contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level that justifies adding a point to the score. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances where the contractor achieved cost savings and performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as "Excellent".

Fair Good Excellent

Outstanding

2013-N-15006 Page 64 of 80

Timeliness of Performance 0 = Unsatisfactory 1 = Poor 2 = Fair 3 = Good 4 = Excellent 5 = Outstanding

Unsatisfactory Delays are jeopardizing the achievement of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources. Recovery is not likely. If performance cannot be substantially corrected, it constitutes a significant impediment in consideration for future awards. Poor Fair Good Excellent Outstanding Delays require significant Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Delays require minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. There are no, or minimal, delays that impact achievement of contract requirements. There are no delays and the contractor has exceeded the agreed upon time schedule. The contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level that justifies adding a point to the score. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances where contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as "Excellent".

Business Relations 0 = Unsatisfactory 1 = Poor 2 = Fair 3 = Good 4 = Excellent 5 = Outstanding

Unsatisfactory Response to inquiries and/or technical, service, administrative issues is not effective. If not substantially mitigated or corrected it should constitute a significant impediment in considerations for future awards. Poor Fair Good Excellent Outstanding Response to inquiries and/or technical, service, administrative issues is marginally effective. Response to inquiries and/or technical, service, administrative issues is somewhat effective. Response to inquiries and/or technical, service, administrative issues is consistently effective. Response to inquiries and/or technical, service, administrative issues exceeds Government expectation. The contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level that justifies adding a point to the score. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances where contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as "Excellent".

2013-N-15006 Page 65 of 80

Attachment B

OFFICE OF SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS UTILIZATION

SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

The following outline meets the minimum requirements of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, as amended, and implemented by the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Subpart 19.7. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) recommend offerors use the following format to submit proposed Individual Subcontracting Plans, including modifications. It is not intended to replace any existing Corporate/Commercial Plan that is more extensive. A subcontracting Plan is required if the estimated cost of the contract may exceed $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) Small businesses are excluded. Questions should be forwarded to the Contracting Officer or Operating Division (OPDIV) Small Business Specialist.

HHS Operating Division (OPDIV): _______________________________ SOLICITATION OR CONTRACT NUMBER: ______________________________ DATE OF PLAN: ___________________________________________________ CONTRACTOR: ____________________________________________________ ADDRESS: ________________________________________________________ STATE/ZIP CODE___________________________________________________ DUNN & BRADSTREET NUMBER: _____________________________________ ITEM/SERVICE (Description): _______________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ NEW/INITIAL CONTRACT

2013-N-15006 Page 66 of 80

PERIOD OF CONTRACT PERFORMANCE (MM/DD/YYYY ­ MM/DD/YYYY):________ __________ Base (if options apply) $___________________ ____________ Option 1: ____________ Option 2: ____________ Option 3: ____________ Option 4: ____________ $___________________ $___________________ $___________________ $___________________ $___________________ CONTRACT MODIFICATION (if applicable) NEW PERIOD OF CONTRACT PERFORMANCE (MM/DD/YYYY ­ MM/DD/YYYY):__________________ Original/Base $___________________ Modification Task Order $___________________ $___________________ $___________________ Performance Period/Quantity _________ Performance Period/Quantity _________ Performance Period/Quantity _________ Modified Total Contract Cost Performance Period/Quantity Performance Period/Quantity Performance Period/Quantity Performance Period/Quantity Performance Period/Quantity Total Contract Cost

Failure to include the essential information of FAR Subpart 19.7 may be cause for either a delay in acceptance or the rejection of a bid or offer when a subcontracting plan is required. "SUBCONTRACT," as used in this clause, means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime contractor or subcontractor requesting supplies or services required for performance of the contract or subcontract.

If assistance is needed to locate small business sources, contact the Small Business Specialist (SBS) supporting the OPDIV. SBS contact information is located on the OSDBU website (http://www.hhs.gov/about/smallbusiness/osdbustaff.html) or you may contact the OSDBU headquarters at (202) 690-7300. HHS current subcontracting goal is 33.0% for Small Business (hereafter referred to as SB), 5.00% for Small Disadvantaged Business, including 8(a) Program Participants, Alaska Native Corporations (ANC) and Indian Tribes (hereafter

2013-N-15006 Page 67 of 80

referred to as SDB), 5.00% for Women-Owned Small Business and Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (hereafter referred to as WOSB), 3.00% HubZone business (hereafter referred to as HUBZone), 3.00% Veteran Owned Small Business (hereafter referred to as VOSB) and 3.00% Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (hereafter referred to as SDVOSB) concerns for Fiscal Year (FY) 2012. For this procurement, HHS expects all proposed subcontracting plans to contain at a minimum the aforementioned percentages. These percentages shall be expressed as percentages of the total estimated subcontracting dollars. 1. Type of Plan (check one) _____ Individual plan (all elements developed specifically for this contract and applicable for the full term of this contract). _____ Master plan (goals developed for this contract) all other elements standardized and approved by a lead agency Federal Official; must be renewed every three years and contractor must provide copy of lead agency approval. _____ Commercial products/service plan (goals are negotiated with the initial agency on a company-wide basis rather than for individual contracts) this plan applies to the entire production of commercial service or items or a portion thereof. The contractor sells commercial products and services customarily used for non-government purposes. The plan is effective during the offeror's fiscal year (attach a copy). The Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR) must include a breakout of subcontracting prorated for HHS and other Federal agencies. 2. Goals Below indicate the dollar and percentage goals for Small Business (SB), Small Disadvantaged (SDB) including Alaska Native Corporations and Indian Tribes, Women-owned and Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned (WOSB), Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone), Veteran Owned Small Business (VOSB), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned (SDVOSB) Small Businesses and "Other than Small Business" (Other) as subcontractors. Indicate the base year and each option year, as specified in FAR 19.704 or project annual subcontracting base and goals under commercial plans. If any contract has more four options, please attach additional sheets which illustrate dollar amounts and percentages. PLEASE NOTE: Zero dollars is not an acceptable goal for the SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB or SDVOSB categories since this does not demonstrate a good faith effort throughout the period of performance of the contract. Formula for below: 2.b. + 2.h. = 2.a.

2013-N-15006 Page 68 of 80

a. Total estimated dollar value of ALL planned subcontracting, i.e., with ALL types of concerns under this contract is _____ ____ (Base Period options apply). FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

if

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ b. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with SMALL BUSINESSES (including SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB): (% of "a") $ ________________ and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ c. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESSES: (% of "a") $ ________________ and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ d. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES: (% of "a") $ ________________ and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ e. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with HUBZone SMALL BUSINESSES: (% of "a") $ ________________ and _________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ f. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESSES: (% of "a") $ ____________and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

2013-N-15006 Page 69 of 80

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ g. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with SERVICEDISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES: (% of "a") $ ________________ and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ h. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with "OTHER THAN SMALL BUSINESSES" (As defined by the Small Business Administration as "any entity that is not classified as a small business. This includes large businesses, state and local governments, non-profit organizations, public utilities, educational institutions and foreign-owned firms.) (% of "a") $ ________________ and ________________% (Base Period - if options apply) FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option FY ___4th Option

$ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ $ _____________ i. Provide a description of ALL the products and/or services to be subcontracted under this contract, and indicate the size and type of business supplying them (check all that apply):
Small Business

Products and/or Services

Other

SDB

WOSB

Hubz

VOSB

SDVOSB

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 j. Provide a description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals for SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone and SDVOSB concerns. Address efforts made

2013-N-15006 Page 70 of 80

to ensure that maximum practicable subcontracting opportunities have been made available for those concerns and explain the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes. Explain the method and state the quantitative basis (in dollars) used to establish the percentage goals. Also, explain how the areas to be subcontracted to SB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns were determined, how the capabilities of these concerns were considered contract opportunities and how such data comports with the cost proposal. Identify any source lists or other resources used in the determination process. (Attach additional sheets, if necessary.) _____________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________ k. Indirect costs have ____ have not ____ been included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals above (check one). l. If indirect costs have been included, explain the method used to determine the proportionate share of such costs to be allocated as subcontracts to SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns: _____________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________ 3. Program Administrator: NAME: TITLE: ADDRESS: ______________________________________________ ______________________________________________ ______________________________________________ ______________________________________________ TELEPHONE: E-MAIL: ______________________________________________ ______________________________________________

Duties: Does the individual named above have general overall responsibility for the company's subcontracting program, i.e., developing, preparing, and executing subcontracting plans and monitoring performance relative to the requirements of those subcontracting plans and perform the following duties? (If NO is checked,

2013-N-15006 Page 71 of 80

please who in the company performs those duties, or indicate why the duties are not performed in your company on a separate sheet of paper and submit with the proposed subcontracting plan.) a. Developing and promoting company-wide policy initiatives that demonstrate the company's support for awarding contracts and subcontracts to SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns; and for assuring that these concerns are included on the source lists for solicitations for products and services they are capable of providing; __yes __ no b. Developing and maintaining bidder source lists of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns from all possible sources; __yes __ no c. Ensuring periodic rotation of potential subcontractors on bidder's lists; __ yes __ no d. Assuring that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB businesses are included on the bidders' list for every subcontract solicitation for products and services that they are capable of providing. __ yes __ no e. Ensuring that Requests for Proposals (RFPs) are designed to permit the maximum practicable participation of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns. __ yes __ no f. Reviewing subcontract solicitations to remove statements, clauses, etc., which might tend to restrict or prohibit small, 8(a), SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB small business participation. __ yes __ no g. Accessing various sources for the identification of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns to include the Central Contractor Registration (http://www.ccr.gov/), local small business and minority associations, local chambers of commerce and Federal agencies' Small Business Offices; ___ yes ___ no h. Establishing and maintaining contract and subcontract award records; __ yes __ no i. Participating in Business Opportunity Workshops, Minority Business Enterprise Seminars, Trade Fairs, Procurement Conferences, etc; __ yes __ no j. Ensuring that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns are made aware of subcontracting opportunities and assisting concerns in preparing responsive bids to the company; __ yes __ no k. Conducting or arranging for the conduct of training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, as amended; __ yes __ no

2013-N-15006 Page 72 of 80

l. Monitoring the company's subcontracting program performance and making any adjustments necessary to achieve the subcontract plan goals; ___yes ___ no m.Preparing and submitting timely, required subcontract reports; ___ yes ___ no n. Conducting or arranging training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of 8(d) of the Small Business Act on purchasing procedures; __ yes __ no o. Coordinating the company's activities during the conduct of compliance reviews by Federal agencies; and __ yes __ no p. Other duties: ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ 4. Equitable Opportunity Describe efforts the offeror will undertake to ensure that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns will have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts. These efforts include, but are not limited to, the following activities:
a. Outreach efforts to obtain sources:

1. Contact minority and small business trade associations; 2) contact business development organizations and local chambers of commerce; 3) attend SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB procurement conferences and trade fairs; 4) review sources from the Central Contractor Registration (http://www.ccr.gov/); 5) review sources from the Small Business Administration (SBA), Central Contractor Registration (CCR); 6) Consider using other sources such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) e-Portals in Commerce, (e-PIC), (http://epic.od.nih.gov/). The NIH e-PIC is not a mandatory source; however, it may be used at the offeror's discretion; and 7) Utilize newspaper and magazine ads to encourage new sources. b. Internal efforts to guide and encourage purchasing personnel:

2013-N-15006 Page 73 of 80

1. Conduct workshops, seminars and training programs; 2. Establish, maintain, and utilize SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB source lists, guides, and other data for soliciting subcontractors; and 3. Monitor activities to evaluate compliance with the subcontracting plan. Additional efforts: ___________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ 5. Flow Down Clause The contractor agrees to include the provisions under FAR 52.219-8, "Utilization of Small Business Concerns," in all acquisitions exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold that offers further subcontracting opportunities. All subcontractors, except small business concerns, that receive subcontracts in excess of $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) must adopt and comply with a plan similar to the plan required by FAR 52.219-9, "Small Business Subcontracting Plan." Note: In accordance with FAR 52.212-5(e) and 52.244-6(c) the contractor is not required to include flow-down clause FAR 52.219.-9 if it is subcontracting commercial items. 6. Reporting and Cooperation The contractor gives assurance of 1) cooperation in any studies or surveys that may be required; 2) submission of periodic reports which illustrate compliance with the subcontracting plan; 3) submission of its Individual Subcontracting Report (ISR) and Summary Subcontract Report (SSR); and 4) subcontractors submission of ISRs and SSRs. ISRs and SSRs shall be submitted via the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) website https://esrs.symplicity.com/index?_tab=signin&cck=1

Reporting Period Oct 1 - Mar 31 Apr 1 - Sept 30 Oct 1 - Sept 30 Contract Completion

Report Due ISR ISR SSR Year End SDB Report

Due Date 4/30 10/30 10/30 30 days after completion

2013-N-15006 Page 74 of 80

Please refer to FAR Part 19.7 for instruction concerning the submission of a Commercial Plan: SSR is due on 10/30 each year for the previous fiscal year ending 9/30. a. Submit ISR (bi-annually) for the awarding Contracting Officer's review and acceptance via the eSRS website. b. Currently, SSR (annually) must be submitted for the HHS eSRS Agency Coordinator review and acceptance via the eSRS website. (Note: Log onto the OSDBU website to view the HHS Agency Coordinator contact information (http://www.hhs.gov/about/smallbusiness/osdbustaff.html).

Note: The Request for Proposal (RFP) will indicate whether a subcontracting plan
is required. Due to the nature and complexity of many HHS contracts, particularly the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), the contractor may not be required to submit its subcontracting reports through the eSRS. The Contracting Officer will confirm reporting requirements prior to the issuance of an award. For more information, contact Courtney Carter, Agency Coordinator-eSRS (Courtney.Carter@hhs.gov).

7. Record keeping FAR 19.704(a) (11) requires a list of the types of records your company will maintain to demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan. The following is a recitation of the types of records the contractor will maintain to demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan. These records will include, but not be limited to, the following: a. SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB source lists, guides and other data identifying such vendors; b. Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB sources; c. On a contract-by-contract basis, records on all subcontract solicitations over $100,000, which indicate for each solicitation (1) whether SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and/or SDVOSB concerns were solicited, if not, why not and the reasons solicited concerns did not receive subcontract awards;

2013-N-15006 Page 75 of 80

d. Records to support other outreach efforts, e.g., contacts with minority and small business trade associations, attendance at small and minority business procurement conferences and trade fairs; e. Records to support internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through (1) workshops, seminars, training programs, incentive awards; and (2) monitoring performance to evaluate compliance with the program and requirements; and f. On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support subcontract award data including the name, address, and business type and size of each subcontractor. (This is not required on a contract­by­contract basis for commercial plans.) g. Other records to support your compliance with the subcontracting plan: (Please describe) ___________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ 8. Timely Payments to Subcontractors FAR 19.702 requires your company to establish and use procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of your subcontracts with SB concerns, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns. Your company has established and used such procedures: ________ yes _________ no 9. Description of Good Faith Effort Maximum practicable utilization of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB concerns as subcontractors in Government contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and economic benefits. When a contractor fails to make a good faith effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are not achieved, and 15 U.S.C. 637(d) (4) (F) directs that liquidated damages shall be paid by the contractor. In order to demonstrate your compliance with a good faith effort to achieve the SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, VOSB and SDVOSB small business subcontracting goals, outline the steps your company plans to take. These steps will be negotiated with the contracting official prior to approval of the plan. __________________________________________________________________

2013-N-15006 Page 76 of 80

SIGNATURE PAGE Signatures Required: This subcontracting plan was submitted by: Signature: __________________________________________________

Typed/Print Name: __________________________________________________ Title: Date: __________________________________________________ __________________________________________________

This plan was reviewed by: Signature: __________________________________________________

Typed/Print Name: __________________________________________________ Title: Contracting Officer Date: ______________

This plan was reviewed by: Signature: __________________________________________________

Typed/Print Name: __________________________________________________ Title: HHS Small Business Specialist Date: ______________

This plan was reviewed by: Signature: __________________________________________________

Typed/Print Name: __________________________________________________ Title: Date: Small Business Administration Procurement Center Representative __________________________________________________

This plan was approved by: Signature: __________________________________________________

Typed/Print Name: __________________________________________________ Title: Contracting Officer Date: ______________

2013-N-15006 Page 77 of 80

Attachment C
Privacy Act System Notice 09-20-0001 System name: Certifying Interpreting Physician File. HHS/CDC/NIOSH. Security classification: None. System location: Division of Respiratory Disease Studies (DRDS), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), 1095 Willowdale Road, Morgantown, WV 26505-2888. Data are also occasionally located at contractor sites as studies are developed, data collected, and reports written. A list of contractor sites where individually identified data are currently located is available upon request to the system manager. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Physicians who have taken the test to be certified to interpret X-rays under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. Records are also maintained on physicians who have attempted to obtain certification, but did not qualify. Categories of records in the system: Certification qualifications of physicians. Authority for maintenance of the system: Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Sections 203, "Medical Examinations" and 501, "Research" (30 U.S.C. 843, 951). Purpose(s): The main purpose is to certify physicians as qualified to interpret X-rays using the ILO system of classification for pneumoconiosis. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Name, address, and phone number supplied to coal operators and X-ray facilities so that they may contact physicians to do work for them. Disclosure may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to a verified inquiry from the congressional office made at the written request of that individual. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) may disclose information from this system of records to the Department of Justice or to a court or other tribunal, when: (a) HHS, or any component thereof; or (b) any HHS employee in his or her official capacity; or (c) any HHS employee in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice (or HHS, where it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) the United States or any agency thereof where HHS determines that the litigation is likely to affect HHS or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and HHS determines that the use of such records by the Department of Justice, the court or other tribunal is relevant and necessary to the litigation and would help in the effective representation of the governmental party, provided, however, that in each case, HHS determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected.

2013-N-15006 Page 78 of 80 Records subject to the Privacy Act are disclosed to private firms for data entry, computer systems analysis and computer programming services. The contractors promptly return data entry records after the contracted work is completed. The contractors are required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards. In the event of litigation initiated at the request of NIOSH, the Institute may disclose such records as it deems desirable or necessary to the Department of Justice and to the Department of Labor, Office of the Solicitor, where appropriate, to enable the Departments to effectively represent the Institute, provided such disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. The only types of litigative proceedings that NIOSH is authorized to request are: (1) enforcement of a subpoena issued to an employer to provide relevant information; or (2) contempt citation against an employer for failure to comply with a warrant obtained by the Institute. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: File folders, microcomputer files, computer tapes/disks and printouts, and microfilm. Retrievability: Name and/or Social Security number, supplied on a voluntary basis, are the indices used to retrieve records. Safeguards: 1. Authorized Users: Access is granted to only a limited number of physicians, scientists, statisticians, and designated support staff of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), or its contractors, as authorized by the system manager to accomplish the stated purposes for which the data in this system have been collected. 2. Physical Safeguards: Locked cabinets in locked rooms, 24-hour guard service in buildings, personnel screening and escorting of visitors, a limited access, secured computer room with fire extinguishers and overhead sprinkler system, computer terminals and automated records located in secured areas. 3. Procedural Safeguards: Protection for computerized records both on the mainframe and the CIO Local Area Network (LAN) includes programmed verification of valid user identification code and password prior to logging on to the system, mandatory password changes, limited log-ins, virus protection, and user rights/file attribute restrictions. Password protection imposes user name and password log-in requirements to prevent unauthorized access. Each user name is assigned limited access rights to files and directories at varying levels to control file sharing. There are routine daily backup procedures and Vault Management System for secure off-site storage is available for backup tapes. Access to highly sensitive systems is limited to users obtaining prior supervisory approval. Additional safeguards may be built into the program by the system analyst as warranted by the sensitivity of the data.

2013-N-15006 Page 79 of 80 CDC and contractor employees who maintain records are instructed to check with the system manager prior to making disclosures of data. When individually identified data are being used in a room, admittance at either CDC or contractor sites is restricted to specifically authorized personnel. Privacy Act provisions are included in contracts, and the CDC Project Director, contract officers and project officer oversee compliance with these requirements. Upon completion of the contract, all data will be either returned to CDC or destroyed, as specified by the contract. 4. Implementation Guidelines: The safeguards outlined above are in accordance with the HHS Information Security Program Policy and FIPS Pub 200, "Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems." Data maintained on CDC's Mainframe and the NIOSH LAN are in compliance with OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III. Security is provided for information collection, processing, transmission, storage, and dissemination in general support systems and major applications. Retention and disposal: Records are retained indefinitely. Disposal methods include erasing computer tapes, burning or shredding printouts or transferring records to the Federal Records Center. System manager(s) and address: Administrative Officer, Division of Respiratory Disease Studies (DRDS), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), 1095 Willowdale Road, Morgantown, WV 26505-2888. Team Leader, Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program, Surveillance Branch, DRDS, NIOSH, 1095 Willowdale Road, Morgantown, WV 26505-2888. Policy coordination is provided by: Director, Division of Respiratory Disease Studies, NIOSH, 1095 Willowdale Road, Morgantown, WV 26505-2888. Notification procedure: An individual may learn if a record exists about himself or herself by contacting the system manager at the address above. Requesters in person must provide driver's license or other positive identification. Individuals who do not appear in person must either: (1) submit a notarized request to verify their identity; or (2) certify that they are the individuals they claim to be and that they understand that the knowing and willful request for or acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense under the Privacy Act subject to a $5,000 fine. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Requesters should also reasonably specify the record contents being sought. An accounting of disclosures that have been made of the record, if any, may be requested. Contesting record procedures: Contact the official at the address specified under System Manager above, reasonably identify the record and specify the information being contested, the corrective

2013-N-15006 Page 80 of 80 action sought, and the reasons for requesting the correction, along with supporting information to show how the record is inaccurate, incomplete, untimely, or irrelevant. Record source categories: Information is obtained directly from the individual or his or her designee. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. [Federal Register: December 31, 1992 (Volume 57, Number 252)] [Notices] [Page 62814] (PDF - 1 MB)

Public Health Service Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) ________________________________________________________________________________________
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES

04/25/2013

Dear Prospective Offeror: You are invited to submit a proposal in accordance with the requirements of Request for Proposal (RFP) 2013-N-15006, entitled "Development of Updated Program to Train and Certify Physicians as Competent to Use International Labour Office International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses in Digital Format." Your proposal must be received by the Contracting Officer no later than 03:30 PM, 04/24/2013, addressed as follows. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention PGO - Acquisition Branch 4 Attention: RFP 2013-N-15006 Post Office Box 18070 626 Cochrans Mill Road ­ B-140 / 2nd Floor Pittsburgh PA 15236-0070 THIS SOLICITATION IS ISSUED AS A FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION - PLEASE SEE SECTION K.1 FOR THE APPLICABLE BUSINESS SIZE STANDARD Your attention is directed to the solicitation Provision L-2, FAR 52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors ­ Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004), relating to submission, modification, and withdrawal of proposals. Please review this provision so that you will be fully aware of the time requirements for submitting your proposal. Your proposal must be prepared in accordance with the instructions in Section L ­ Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors, and the Statement of Work contained in the RFP. Please direct your attention to Sections L.7, General Instructions, L.8, Technical Proposal Instructions, L.9, Instructions for Submission of Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data, L.10, Business Proposal Instructions, and L.11, Past Proposal Information. The required supporting documentation must be included as a part of your technical or business proposal. In addition to your technical and business proposals, you are to return two (2) original signed copies of Standard Form 33, and one copy of Section K, Representations and Certifications. Each of these must contain original signatures. This request does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of your proposal. It is also brought to your attention that the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this proposed procurement. All inquiries concerning the solicitation document must be submitted in writing and must be received by this office by 04/08/12, please see Paragraph L.12, Inquiries, of this RFP. Requests for any information concerning this RFP should be referred only to John J. Carolan, telephone (412) 386-6430.

Sincerely, Larry E. Guess Contracting Officer

