TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION NO. HSTS03-12-R-CIO601

INVESTIGATIVE RECORDS MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE



SECTION 1: GENERAL INFORMATION 



(a) Issue Date: June 28, 2012 



(b) General Information and Response Date: This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) , as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued.  This notice is issued as a Request for Proposal (RFP).  Interested offerors must respond to this combined synopsis/solicitation.  Proposals in response to this combined synopsis/solicitation must be received by the Government not later than 1:00 PM EDT on July 17, 2012.  



(c) Issuing Office: 

     Transportation Security Administration 

     Office of Acquisition 

     601 South 12th Street 

     Arlington, VA  20598-6025



(d) Point of Contact: Questions regarding this notice shall be directed to the following point of contact.  In addition, proposals shall be submitted electronically via email also to the following point of contact by the closing date and time listed in item (b) above.  



Justin Zerbato				Kristin Fuller

Contract Specialist			Contracting Officer

Phone: 571-227-5478			Phone: 571-227-2740

		Kristin.Fuller@tsa.dhs.gov



(e) Set-Aside Status: This acquisition is set aside 100% for certified 8A Program Participants. Only qualified, certified 8A Program Participants concerns may submit offers in response to this acquisition.  

	(1)  The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 561621. 

     (2) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer is $12.5 Million.



(f) Description: The TSA seeks to acquire a software solution that will help the Focused Operation (FO) team to automate and simplify the process of investigation records management for our analysts.  This software must keep track of all records relating to everything involved in an investigation.  It must handle the task of managing investigation records, tracking cases, viewing assignment history, tracking time spent on cases, viewing statistics and much more.  





(g) Applicable Provisions and Clauses: 

(1) Effective Date: This combined synopsis/solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular (FAC) 2005-57 (Effective March 7, 2012).  

(2) Instructions to Offerors: FAR 52.212-1, “Instructions to Offerors—Commercial”, applies to this acquisition.  

(4) Representations and Certifications: Offerors are required to complete a copy of the provision at FAR 52.212-3, “Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items,” (5) Terms and Conditions: The clause at FAR 52.212-4, “Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items,” applies to this acquisition and is incorporated by reference herein.  

(6) Statutes and Executive Orders: The clause at FAR 52.212-5, “Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items,” applies to this acquisition and is included in the document at Section 5.  The specific additional FAR clauses cited in the clause that are applicable to the acquisition, are noted in the clause itself.  



(h)  Approval of Contract: 



 FAR 52.204-1 Approval of Contract (Dec 1989)

This contract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer and shall not be binding until so approved.

SECTION 2: SUPPLIES/SERVICES AND PRICES



2.1: Schedule of Supplies/Services and Prices



The Contractor shall provide investigative management software and maintenance support as specified in the Statement of Work.  TSA is requesting Fifteen (15) individual licenses for the base year and maintenance and support for each subsequent Option Year.  The anticipated period of performance for this contract is a base period of one (1) year and four (4) 12 month Option Years.  The schedule of supplies, services, and quantities is defined in the Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) table presented below.  







SECTION 3: SPECIFICATIONS AND STATEMENT OF WORK



3.1  Purpose



Product, Service or Outcome Needed:



The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) seeks a software solution that will help the Focused Operation team to automate and simplify the process of investigation records management for our analysts.    This software must keep track of all records relating to everything involved in an investigation.  It must handle the task of managing investigation records, tracking cases, viewing assignment history, tracking time spent on cases, viewing statistics and much more. 



Scope of the Products, Services, or Outcome:



This product will help the FO team to automate and simplify process of investigation records management for our analysts.



3.2  Background 



The Transportation Security Administration (TSA/Office of Information Technology (OIT)/Information Assurance and Cyber Security Division (IAD)/ Technical Services Section/Focused Operations Team (FO ) Team performs deployed cyber investigations and provides digital forensics and e-Discovery support for legal and law enforcement (civil and criminal) cases.  Specifically, the FO team uses a manual process to manage records.  The manual process keeps track of all records relating to everything involved in an investigation.  The current solution does not track assignment history and time spent on cases.  











3.3 Technical Requirements/Tasks/Outcomes 



This product will help the FO team to automate and simplify process of investigation records management for our analysts.  The Case Management Software will provide the following needed capabilities which are not currently available in the existing database system:



Logical flow through process makes system easy to learn.  

Record Case Details and manage Case Assignments.  

Track a multitude of records, including Assignment History, Time Spent on Cases and Investigator Statistics.  

Many useful tools are available, such as management of Case Task Lists, Phone Logs, Note Pads and Statistics.

Distribute information to the desktop of other authorized users.  Integrate with other software applications.  

Keep track of case assignment, case disposition, investigative notes, supplemental information, etc.  

Allows for case assessment for solvability and closure value based on standard or agency defined criteria.

Allows for review dates to be set and provides a list of cases scheduled for review.

Allows for multiple case dispositions and will track dispositions as the case investigation progresses

Case log entries can be forwarded to a supervisor for approval and will provide record locking for closed cases.

Provides detailed statistical analysis of case data and tracks unique characteristics of each case and compares to other cases for incidents that are possibly related.

Allows for unique user accounts with specific user permissions.  Allows for separate views for supervisory personnel and investigative personnel.

Supervisory view will allow for quick access to all cases as well as immediate access to supervisory and management functions.

Investigator view will allow for immediate access to the open cases assigned to the user as well as the ability to easily access other cases.

Software will allow for assessing a case based on solvability factors, which can be agency definable.  These factors will automatically assign a solvability factor and closure value.

When a case is ready to be assigned, case assignment statistics will be easily accessible and provides information on total active cases assigned as well as average solvability and closure value of active cases.

The software will automatically schedule the case for supervisory review upon initial assignment, track the case disposition and identify cases with open/closed and active/inactive dispositions, allows for tasks to be entered on a case and assigned to a specific employee for completion, l track time spent on investigating cases. This tracked time will be in overall time (days required for investigation) as well as specific time spent on investigating the individual case, allow for tracking expenses incurred during the investigation of a specific case, allow for entering people connected to a case and will identify the relationship of the person to that case (suspect, witness, owner, etc.), allow for linking documents, images and other files and will allow for viewing/opening them from within the case file.

The software will allow for entering at least thirty-six unique characteristics of a case in order to build an MO and will allow for searching based on an individual characteristic or any combination of characteristics. These characteristics will be agency definable.

The software will allow for investigators to compare cases with similar characteristics and will indicate what percentages of characteristics are matched on similar cases.

The software will allow for an unlimited number of case notes to be made on a case. These case notes will be easily accessible from within a case file.

The software will allow for searching keywords or phrases that are contained in case notes.

The software will allow for printing specific information from a case file or selecting all information in order to print an entire case file.

The software will allow for cases to be password protected in order to control access to cases containing sensitive information.

The software will allow for searching cases by case information (case number, case type, offense location, investigator assigned, disposition, etc.) as well as searching by assigned date and disposition date.

The software will present a list of newly assigned cases for the logged in user.

The software will track each time a case is accessed by the assigned investigator and will allow for supervisors to monitor how often cases are accessed by the assigned investigator.

The software will allow for automatically notifying the user if open and/or active cases have exceeded a specified time with no activity.

Users will be able to easily see tasks that have been assigned to them and will be able to limit the task list by current tasks, overdue tasks and future tasks.

The software will allow the user to see statistical information specific to their work and will allow for comparison to the average of other investigators.

The software will provide statistical information concerning:

Number of active cases and average case age.

Case load information based on active cases assigned

Average solvability factor, closure value and investigative time of non-active cases. This information will be grouped by investigator and offense and will allow for easy access to a specific case file from the statistical report view.

The software will allow for filtering case data based on a date range and will allow this information to be exported for analysis by Microsoft Excel. The system will include preformatted spreadsheets to allow for pivot table and pivot chart analysis.

The system will allow for entering code information that is specific to the agency. This information will include:

Offense/Case type

Case dispositions

Evidence type

Case note types

Case particular/MO types

Expense types for tracking cost of investigation

The system will allow for assigning a specific investigative unit to each case and will automatically assign the unit based on the offense and/or the assigned officer.

The system will allow administrators to limit users to only access and view cases that are assigned to a specific investigative unit.

The system will allow for specific users to only access information on cases with a closed disposition.

The system will utilize a modern programming language and information will be stored in a Microsoft SQL database or other ODBC compliant database.

The system can allow for initial case data entry to be done by importing information from existing data such as incident reports, if this information is provided in a readable format such as ODBC connection,

ASCII text file, etc. and an RMS Interface agreement exists.

The system will allow for automatic assignment of a case number, if necessary.

The system will allow for email notifications to be sent when a case is assigned, disposition changes, supervisory review, etc. using Microsoft Outlook or other standard email application.



DHS Enterprise Architecture Compliance Clause

  

All solutions and services shall meet DHS Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures.

Specifically, the contractor shall comply with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) requirements:



All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA.          

All IT hardware and/or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile

Description information for all data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether  adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information  Repository.                       

In compliance with OMB mandates, all network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification, upgrade, or replacement.



TSA Enterprise Architecture



All solutions and designs shall be approved by the Enterprise Architecture Division (EAD) prior to being implemented through the SELC Solution Engineering Review (SER), Preliminary Design Review (PDR) and Critical Design Review (CDR) stage gates.  All implementations shall be done per the approved solution/design without deviation.  Any solution or design changes identified during subsequent SELC phases, including testing, implementation and deployment, must first receive EAD review and approval.  



All solution and design artifacts (e.g. FRDs, SDDs, SSPs) are to be placed in the specified EAD repository.  



All solutions and services shall meet DHS Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures. Specifically, the contractor shall comply with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) requirements:



All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA.

All IT hardware and software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile.

Description information for all data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review, approval and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information Repository.

Development of data assets, information exchanges and data standards will comply with the DHS Data Management Policy MD 103-01 and all data-related artifacts will be developed and validated according to DHS data management architectural guidelines.

Applicability of IPv6 to DHS-related components (networks, infrastructure, and applications) specific to individual acquisitions shall be in accordance with the DHS Enterprise Architecture (per OMB Memorandum M-05-22, August 2, 2005) regardless of whether the acquisition is for modification, upgrade, or replacement. All EA related component acquisitions shall be IPv6 compliant as defined in the USGv6 Profile (NIST Special Publication 500-267) and the corresponding declarations of conformance defined in the USGv6 Test Program.



Data, Data Management and Data-Pertinent Information  



In addition to the Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) Subpart 27.4 – ‘Rights in Data and Copyrights’ and Section 35.011 detailing technical data delivery, the contractor shall provide all TSA-specific data in a format maintaining pre-existing referential integrity and data constraints, as well as data structures in an understandable format to TSA.  Examples of data structures can be defined as, but not limited to

Data models depicting entity relationships 

Metadata information to define data definitions

Detailed data formats, type, and size

Delineations of the referential integrity (primary key/foreign key) of data schemas

All TSA-specific data shall be delivered in a secure and timely manner to TSA.  Data security is defined within the ‘Requirements for Handling Sensitive, Classified, and/or Proprietary Information’, section of this SOW.  This definition complies with not only the delivery of data, but also maintaining TSA-specific data within a non-TSA or DHS proprietary system. Alternative data delivery techniques may also be defined by TSA EDM project team.  

As part of the necessary data structure, the contractor shall provide an Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) to explain the business relationships to TSA through graphically and textually detailing the data that is stored per each database and system/application.  The preferred format for the ERD is CA Erwin; however other formats, such as Visio, DLL, database scripts or format specified by TSA EDM project team shall be accepted.    All additional known data models (e.g., Logical Data Model (LDM) Conceptual Data Model (CDM), Physical Data Model (PDM), Data Flow Diagrams (DFD)) depicting TSA-specific data are required.  Referential integrity also needs to be addressed for all parent/child or primary key/foreign key relationships within these models.

All metadata shall be pre-defined upon delivery to TSA.  Metadata shall be delivered in a format that is readily interpretable by TSA (e.g. metadata shall be extracted from any metadata repository that is not utilized by TSA and delivered in a TSA approved manner).  Metadata shall also provide an indication of historical verses the most current data to be used, as well as frequency of data refreshes.

The contractor shall adhere to providing a Data Management Plan (DMP), as defined by the TSA Enterprise Data Management (EDM) project team, which includes conceptual and logical data models, along with a data asset profile. Any data exchanges with other DHS Components shall adhere to DHS data exchange standards using the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM).  All required artifacts will be provided to the TSA EDM project team.   

Note: The following definitions pertain to the previous paragraphs:

An ERD is a diagram used to identify the topics of interest (entities) and their connections to each other (relationships). 

An LDM in systems engineering is a representation of an organization’s data, organized in terms of entities and relationships and is independent of any particular data management technology.  

‘A CDM is a high-level model that is considered a useful first step in documenting and describing the fundamental nature of the organization’s data. It serves as the foundation for providing a common vocabulary and for understanding the overall structure of data, and for normalizing data access to support improved information sharing. In a CDM, fundamental things of significance to the business organization are represented. A CDM usually includes data objects and the corresponding core relationships in terms of the business user.

A PDM is a representation of a data asset design which takes into account the facilities and constraints of a given database management system (DBMS). It is typically derived from a logical data model, though it may be reverse-engineered from a given database implementation.

The PDM can usually be used to calculate storage estimates and may include specific storage allocation details for a given database system. There is no sharp dividing line between a CDM and an LDM. Similarly, there is no sharp dividing line between an LDM and a PDM. Depending on the developers and their requirements, details may appear in one model or the other. Each model should be constructed down to the level of detail that makes the model useful to the intended audience.’ 

A DFD is a diagram depicting the flow of data from the source to the target systems, showing all interactions made in between. 

Referential integrity is a database concept that ensures that relationships between tables remain consistent. When one table has a foreign key to another table, the concept of referential integrity states that you may not add a record to the table that contains the foreign key unless there is a corresponding record in the linked table.  





Deliverables:



N/A





Special Delivery Instructions:



N/A





Performance/ Delivery Period:



Base Year Period of Performance:  8/17/2012 - 8/16/2013

Option Year One:		        8/17/2013 – 8/16/2014

Option Year Two:		        8/17/2014 – 8/16/2015

Option Year Three:		        8/17/2015 – 8/16/2016

Option year Four:		        8/17/2016 – 8/16/2017



Delivery within 2 weeks of contract award. 



Place/ Location of Performance/ Delivery:



TSA HQ, 701 S. 12th St., Arlington, VA 20598



Travel Requirements:



N/A



Special Requirements:



N/A



3.4 Evaluation of Proposals



The government will evaluate on a lowest price, technically acceptable basis.  Section 6.2 contains further detail with regard to the technical and price proposal.



3.5  Requirements for Handling Sensitive, Classified, and/or Proprietary Information



SECURITY OF SYSTEMS HANDLING PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION AND PRIVACY INCIDENT REPONSE



(a)  Definitions.  



“Breach” (may be used interchangeably with “Privacy Incident’) as used in this clause means the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar situation where persons other than authorized users, and for other than authorized purpose, have access or potential access to Personally Identifiable Information, in usable form whether physical or electronic.



“Personally Identifiable Information (PII)” as used in this clause means any information that permits the identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any other information that is linked or linkable to that individual regardless of whether the individual is a citizen of the United States, legal permanent resident, or a visitor to the United States.



Examples of PII include:  name, date of birth, mailing address, telephone number, Social Security Number (SSN), email address, zip code, account numbers, certificate/license numbers, vehicle identifiers including license plates, uniform resource locators (URLs), Internet protocol addresses, biometric identifiers (e.g., fingerprints), photographic facial images, or any other unique identifying number or characteristic, and any information where it is reasonably foreseeable that the information will be linked with other information to identify the individual.



“Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (Sensitive PII)” as used in this clause is a subset of Personally Identifiable Information, which if lost, compromised or disclosed without authorization, could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an individual.  Complete social security numbers (SSN), alien registration numbers (A-number) and biometric identifiers (such as fingerprint, voiceprint, or iris scan) are considered Sensitive PII even if they are not coupled with additional PII.  Additional examples include any groupings of information that contains an individual’s name or other unique identifier plus one or more of the following elements:



Driver’s license number, passport number, or truncated SSN (such as last 4 digits)

Date of birth (month, day, and year)

Citizenship or immigration status

Financial information such as account numbers or Electronic Funds Transfer Information

Medical Information

System authentication information such as mother’s maiden name, account passwords or personal identification numbers (PIN)



Other Personally Identifiable information may be “sensitive” depending on its context, such as a list of employees with less than satisfactory performance ratings or an unlisted home address or phone number.  In contrast, a business card or public telephone directory of agency employees contains Personally Identifiable Information but it is not sensitive.  



(b)  Systems Access.  Work to be performed under this contract requires the handling of Sensitive PII.  The contractor shall provide the Government access to, and information regarding systems the contractor operates on behalf of the Government under this contract, when requested by the Government, as part of its responsibility to ensure compliance with security requirements, and shall otherwise cooperate with the Government in assuring compliance with such requirements.  Government access shall include independent validation testing of controls, system penetration testing by the Government, Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) data reviews, and access by agency Inspectors General for its reviews.



(c)  Systems Security.  In performing its duties related to management, operation, and/or access of systems containing Sensitive PII under this contract, the contractor, its employees and subcontractors shall comply with applicable security requirements described in DHS Sensitive System Publication 4300A or any replacement publication and rules of conduct as described in TSA MD 3700.4



In addition, use of contractor-owned laptops or other media storage devices to process or store PII is prohibited under this contract until the contractor provides, and the contracting officer in coordination with CISO approves, written certification by the contractor that the following requirements are met: 



(1)  Laptops employ encryption using a NIST Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2 or successor approved product;



(2)  The contractor has developed and implemented a process to ensure that security and other applications software are kept current;



(3)  Mobile computing devices utilize anti-viral software and a host-based firewall mechanism;



(4)  When no longer needed, all removable media and laptop hard drives shall be processed (i.e., sanitized, degaussed, or destroyed) in accordance with DHS security requirements.



(5)  The contractor shall maintain an accurate inventory of devices used in the performance of this contract;



(6) Contractor employee annual training and rules of conduct/behavior shall be developed, conducted/issued, and acknowledged by employees in writing. Training and rules of conduct shall address at minimum:

	(i) 	Authorized and official use;

(ii)         Prohibition against use of personally-owned equipment to 

process, access, or store Sensitive PII;

Prohibition against access by unauthorized users and 

	unauthorized use by authorized users; and

Protection of Sensitive PII;



(7)  All Sensitive PII obtained under this contract shall be removed from contractor-owned information technology assets upon termination or expiration of contractor work.  Removal must be accomplished in accordance with DHS Sensitive System Publication 4300A, which the contracting officer will provide upon request.  Certification of data removal will be performed by the contractor’s Project Manager and written notification confirming certification will be delivered to the contracting officer within 15 days of termination/expiration of contractor work.



(d)  Data Security. Contractor shall limit access to the data covered by this clause to those employees and subcontractors who require the information in order to perform their official duties under this contract. The contractor, contractor employees, and subcontractors must physically secure Sensitive PII when not in use and/or under the control of an authorized individual, and when in transit to prevent unauthorized access or loss.  When Sensitive PII is no longer needed or required to be retained under applicable Government records retention policies, it must be destroyed through means that will make the Sensitive PII irretrievable.



The contractor shall only use Sensitive PII obtained under this contract for purposes of the contract, and shall not collect or use such information for any other purpose without the prior written approval of the contracting officer.  At expiration or termination of this contract, the contractor shall turn over all Sensitive PII obtained under the contract that is in its possession to the Government.



(e)  Breach Response.  The contractor agrees that in the event of any actual or suspected breach of Sensitive PII (i.e., loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, access for an unauthorized purpose, or other unauthorized access, whether physical or electronic), it shall immediately, and in no event later than one hour of discovery, report the breach to the contracting officer, the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), and the TSA Director of Privacy Policy & Compliance (TSAprivacy@dhs.gov).  The contractor is responsible for positively verifying that notification is received and acknowledged by at least one of the foregoing Government parties.



(f)  Personally Identifiable Information Notification Requirement.  The contractor has in place procedures and the capability to promptly notify any individual whose Sensitive PII was, or is reasonably believed to have been, breached, as determined appropriate.  The method and content of any notification by the contractor shall be coordinated with, and subject to the prior approval of the Government, based upon a risk-based analysis conducted by the Government in accordance with DHS Privacy incident Handling Guidance.  Notification shall not proceed unless the Government has determined that: (1) notification is appropriate; and (2) would not impede a law enforcement investigation or jeopardize national security.



Subject to Government analysis of the breach and the terms of its instructions to the contractor regarding any resulting breach notification, a method of notification may include letters to affected individuals sent by first class mail, electronic means, or general public notice, as approved by the Government.  At minimum, a notification should include:  (1) a brief description of how the breach occurred; (2) a description of the types of personal information involved in the breach; (3) a statement as to whether the information was encrypted or protected by other means; (4) steps an individual may take to protect themselves; (5) what the agency is doing, if anything, to investigate the breach, to mitigate losses, and to protect against any further breaches; and (6) point of contact information identifying who affected individuals may contact for further information.



In the event that a Sensitive PII breach occurs as a result of the violation of a term of this contract by the contractor or its employees, the contractor shall, as directed by the contracting officer and at no cost to the Government, take timely action to correct or mitigate the violation, which may include providing notification and/or other identity protection services to affected individuals for a period not to exceed 12 months from discovery of the breach.  Should the Government elect to provide and/or procure notification or identity protection services in response to a breach, the contractor will be responsible for reimbursing the Government for those expenses.



(g)  Pass-Through of Security Requirements to Subcontractors.   The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, its terms and requirements, in all subcontracts under this contract, and to require written subcontractor acknowledgement of same.  Violation by a subcontractor of any provision set forth in this clause will be attributed to the contractor.  





3.6 Security Requirements



All services, hardware, and/or software provided under this task order must be compliant with DHS 4300A DHS Sensitive System Policy Directive, DHS 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook, TSA MD 1400.3 Information Technology Security Policy, TSA IT Security Policy Handbook, and Technical Standards



3.7 Accessibility Requirements (Section 508)

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220) requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology (EIT), they must ensure that it is accessible to people with disabilities. Federal employees and members of the public who have disabilities must have equal access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that enjoyed by non-disabled Federal employees and members of the public. 

All EIT deliverables within this work statement shall comply with the applicable technical and functional performance criteria of Section 508 unless exempt. Specifically, the following applicable EIT accessibility standards have been identified: 

Section 508 Applicable EIT Accessibility Standards 



36 CFR 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems, applies to all EIT software applications and operating systems procured or developed under this work statement including but not limited to GOTS and COTS software. In addition, this standard is to be applied to Web-based applications when needed to fulfill the functional performance criteria. This standard also applies to some Web based applications as described within 36 CFR 1194.22. 



36 CFR 1194.22 Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, applies to all Web-based deliverables, including documentation and reports procured or developed under this work statement. When any Web application uses a dynamic (non-static) interface, embeds custom user control(s), embeds video or multimedia, uses proprietary or technical approaches such as, but not limited to, Flash or Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) then 1194.21 Software standards also apply to fulfill functional performance criteria. 

36 CFR 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria, applies to all EIT deliverables regardless of delivery method. All EIT deliverable shall use technical standards, regardless of technology, to fulfill the functional performance criteria. 

36 CFR 1194.41 Information Documentation and Support, applies to all documents, reports, as well as help and support services. To ensure that documents and reports fulfill the required 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria, they shall comply with the technical standard associated with Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications at a minimum. In addition, any help or support provided in this work statement that offer telephone support, such as, but not limited to, a help desk shall have the ability to transmit and receive messages using TTY. 

Section 508 Applicable Exceptions 

Exceptions for this work statement have been determined by DHS and only the exceptions described herein may be applied. Any request for additional exceptions shall be sent to the COTR and determination will be made in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2. DHS has identified the following exceptions that may apply: 36 CFR 1194.3(b) Incidental to Contract, all EIT that is exclusively owned and used by the contractor to fulfill this work statement does not require compliance with Section 508. This exception does not apply to any EIT deliverable, service or item that will be used by any Federal employee(s) or member(s) of the public. This exception only applies to those contractors assigned to fulfill the obligations of this work statement and for the purposes of this requirement, are not considered members of the public. 

Section 508 Compliance Requirements

36 CFR 1194.2(b) (COTS/GOTS products), When procuring a product, each agency shall procure products which comply with the provisions in this part when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are developed in response to a Government solicitation. Agencies cannot claim a product as a whole is not commercially available because no product in the marketplace meets all the standards. If products are commercially available that meet some but not all of the standards, the agency must procure the product that best meets the standards. When applying this standard, all procurements of EIT shall have documentation of market research that identify a list of products or services that first meet the agency business needs, and from that list of products or services, an analysis that the selected product met more of the accessibility requirements than the non-selected products as required by FAR 39.2. Any selection of a product or service that meets less accessibility standards due to a significant difficulty or expense shall only be permitted under an undue burden claim and requires authorization from the DHS Office of Accessible Systems and Technology (OAST) in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2.





3.8 Government Furnished Resources and Information



N/A



SECTION 4: ADDENDA TO FAR 52.212-4



4.1 Type of Contract & Period of Performance 

The TSA contemplates the award of a Firm Fixed Price contract.   



The period of performance of the contract shall be a Base Period from date of award through one year thereafter, with four Option Periods of one year each, running consecutively from the end of the Base Period.   



4.2 Contracting Officer

The Contracting Officer is the only person authorized to make any changes, approve any changes in the requirements of this contract, issue orders, obligate funds and authorize the expenditure of funds, and notwithstanding any term contained elsewhere in this contract, such authority remains vested solely in the Contracting Officer.  (For further information, the Contracting Officer is a federal government employee who is specifically authorized and appointed in writing under specified agency procedures and granted the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings.)   In the event, the Contractor makes any changes at the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the change will be considered to have been without authority and no adjustment will be made in the contract price to cover any increase in costs incurred as a result thereof.  

  

The following Primary Contracting Officer is assigned to this contract.  Alternate Contracting Officers may be assigned:



		TSA Contracting Officer:



NAME:		Kristin Fuller 	

		PHONE NUMBER:	571.227.2740

		EMAIL:		 



4.3 Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) and Technical Monitors (TM)

4.3.1 The principle role of the COTR is to support the Contracting Officer in managing the contract.  This is done through furnishing technical direction within the confines of the contract, monitoring performance, ensuring requirements are met within the terms of the contract, and maintaining a strong relationship with the Contracting Officer.  As a team the Contracting Officer and COTR must ensure that program requirements are clearly communicated and that the agreement is performed to meet them.  The principle role of the Technical Monitor (TM) is to support the COTR on all work orders, tasks, deliverables and actions that require immediate attention relating to the approved scope and obligated funding of the contract action.  



4.3.2 The Contracting Officer hereby designates the individual(s) named below as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative(s) and Technical Monitor(s).  Such designations(s) shall specify the scope and limitations of the authority so delegated.



		TSA COTR:



		NAME:		Tiffany Crowders	

		PHONE NUMBER:	571.227.3597	

		EMAIL:		  



				

4.3.3 The COTR(s) and TM(s) may be changed at any time by the Government without prior notice to the Contractor, but notification of the change, including the name and phone number of the successor COTR, will be promptly provided to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer in writing.



4.3.4 The responsibilities and limitations of the COTR are as follows:



The COTR is responsible for the technical aspects of the project and technical liaison with the Contractor.  The COTR is also responsible for the final inspection and acceptance of all reports and such other responsibilities as may be specified in the contract.

The COTR may designate assistant COTR(s) to act for him/her by naming such assistant in writing and transmitting a copy of such designation through the Contracting Officer to the Contractor. 

The COTR will maintain communications with the Contractor and the Contracting Officer.  The COTR must report any observed fraud, waste, or opportunities to improve performance of cost efficiency to the Contracting Officer.

The COTR will immediately alert the Contracting Officer to any possible Contractor deficiencies or questionable practices so that corrections can be made before the problems become significant.

The COTR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract’s price, terms or conditions.  Any Contractor request for changes shall be referred to the Contracting Officer directly or through the COTR.  No such changes shall be made without the expressed prior authorization of the Contracting Officer.  

The COTR is not authorized to direct the Contractor on how to perform the work.

The COTR is not authorized to issue stop-work orders.  The COTR may recommend the authorization by the Contracting Officer to issue a stop work order, but the Contracting Officer is the only official authorized to issue such order.

The COTR is not authorized to discuss new proposed efforts or encourage the Contractor to perform additional efforts on an existing contract or order.



4.3.5 The responsibilities and limitations of the TM are as follows:



Coordinating with the COTR on all work orders, task, deliverables and actions that require immediate attention relating to the approved scope and obligated funding of the contract action.

Monitoring the Contractor’s performance in relation to the technical requirements of the assigned functional area of the contract to ensure that the Contractor’s performance is strictly within the contract’s scope and obligated funding. 

Ensuring that all recommended changes in any work under the contract are coordinated and submitted in writing to the COTR for consideration. 

Informing the COTR if the Contractor is not meeting performance, cost, schedule milestones. 

Performing technical reviews of the Contractor’s proposals as directed by the COTR. 

Performing acceptance of the Contractor’s deliverables as directed by the COTR. 

Reporting any threats to the health and safety of persons or potential for damage to Government property or critical national infrastructure which may result from the Contractor’s performance or failure to perform the contract’s requirements.



4.4 Submission of Invoices- Commercial 

(a)	Background:  The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) partners with the United States Coast Guard Finance Center for financial services in support of TSA operations, including the payment of contractor invoices.  Therefore, all contractor invoices must be submitted to, and will be paid by, the U.S. Coast Guard Finance Center (FinCen).



(b)	Invoice Submission Method:  Invoices may be submitted via facsimile, U.S. Mail, or email.  Contractors shall utilize ONLY ONE method per invoice submission.  The submission information for each of the methods is as follows in order of preference:



1)	Facsimile number is:  757-413-7314



	The facsimile number listed above shall be used by contractors for ORIGINAL invoice submission only.  If facsimile submission is utilized, contractors shall not submit hard copies of invoices via the U.S. mail.  It is the responsibility of the contractor to verify that invoices are received, regardless of the method of submission used.  Contractors may inquire regarding the receipt of invoices by contacting the U.S. Coast Guard Finance Center via the methods listed in subparagraph (e) of this clause.



	2)	U.S. Mail:



United States Coast Guard Finance Center

TSA Commercial Invoices

P.O. Box 4111

Chesapeake, VA 23327-4111



3)	Email Invoices:



  or www.fincen.uscg.mil



(c)	Invoice Process:  Upon receipt of contractor invoices, FinCen will electronically route invoices to the appropriate TSA Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative and/or Contracting Officer for review and approval.  Upon approval, the TSA will electronically route the invoices back to FinCen.  Upon receipt of certified invoices from a Authorized Certifying Official, FinCen will initiate payment of the invoices.  



(d)	Payment Status: Contractors may inquire on the payment status of an invoice by any of the following means:



(1)	Via the internet: https://www.fincen.uscg.mil

Contacting the FinCen Customer Service Section via telephone at 1-800-564-5504 or (757) 523-6940 (Voice Option #1).  The hours of operation for the Customer Service line are 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Eastern Time, Monday through Friday.  However, the Customer Service line has a voice-mail feature that is available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.



(2)	Via the :  



(e)	Invoice Elements:  Invoices will automatically be rejected if the information required in subparagraph (a)(2) of the Prompt Payment Clause, contained in this Section of the Contract, including EFT banking information, Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), and DUNS number are not included in the invoice.  All invoices must be clearly correlate invoiced amounts to the corresponding contract line item number and funding citation.



(f)	Supplemental Invoice Documentation: Contractors shall submit all supplemental invoice documentation (e.g. copies of certified time sheets (as applicable), subcontractor invoices, receipts, signed receiving reports, travel vouchers, etc) necessary to approve an invoice along with the original invoice.  The Contractor invoice shall contain the information stated in the Prompt Payment Clause in order to be received and processed by FinCen.  Invoice charges shall be billed per appropriate Contract Line item Number (CLIN), period of performance and obligated funding. Unless otherwise authorized by fiscal law, funding from one CLIN may not be utilized to offset charges on another CLIN, specifically if it is different accounting and appropriation data. Supplemental invoice documentation required for review and approval of invoices may, at the written direction of the Contracting Officer, be submitted directly to either the Contracting Officer, or the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative.



(g)	Frequency of invoice submission: Invoices shall be submitted by the contractor for each Delivery Order placed under this IDIQ in accordance with the procedures provided above.  



4.5 Section 508 Compliance Requirements

(a) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220) requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, they must ensure that it is accessible to people with disabilities. Federal employees and members of the public who have disabilities must have equal access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that enjoyed by non-disabled Federal employees and members of the public.

(b) All EIT deliverables within this work statement shall comply with the applicable technical and functional performance criteria of Section 508 unless exempt. Specifically, the following applicable standards have been identified:


(1) 36 CFR 1194.21 – Software Applications and Operating Systems, applies to all EIT software applications and operating systems procured or developed under this work statement including but not limited to GOTS and COTS software. In addition, this standard is to be applied to Web-based applications when needed to fulfill the functional performance criteria. This standard also applies to some Web based applications as described within 36 CFR 1194.22.

(2) 36 CFR 1194.22 – Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, applies to all Web-based deliverables, including documentation and reports procured or developed under this work statement. When any Web application uses a dynamic (non-static) interface, embeds custom user control(s), embeds video or multimedia, uses proprietary or technical approaches such as, but not limited to, Flash or Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) then “1194.21 Software” standards also apply to fulfill functional performance criteria.

(3) 36 CFR 1194.23 – Telecommunications Products, applies to all telecommunications products including end-user interfaces such as telephones and non end-user interfaces such as switches, circuits, etc. that are procured, developed or used by the Federal Government.

(4) 36 CFR 1194.25 – Self Contained, Closed Products, applies to all EIT products such as printers, copiers, fax machines, kiosks, etc. that are procured or developed under this work statement.

(5) 36 CFR 1194.26 – Desktop and Portable Computers, applies to all desktop and portable computers, including but not limited to laptops and personal data assistants (PDA) that are procured or developed under this work statement.

(6) 36 CFR 1194.31 – Functional Performance Criteria, applies to all EIT deliverables regardless of delivery method. All EIT deliverable shall use technical standards, regardless of technology, to fulfill the functional performance criteria.

(7) 36 CFR 1194.41 – Information Documentation and Support, applies to all documents, reports, as well as help and support services. To ensure that documents and reports fulfill the required “1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria”, they shall comply with the technical standard associated with Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications at a minimum. In addition, any help or support provided in this work statement that offer telephone support, such as, but not limited to, a help desk shall have the ability to transmit and receive messages using TTY.

(c) Exceptions for this work statement have been determined by DHS and only the exceptions described herein may be applied. Any request for additional exceptions shall be sent to the COTR and determination will be made in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2. DHS has identified the following exceptions that may apply:

(1) 36 CFR 1194.2(b) – (COTS/GOTS products), When procuring a product, each agency shall procure products which comply with the provisions in this part when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are developed in response to a Government solicitation. Agencies cannot claim a product as a whole is not commercially available because no product in the marketplace meets all the standards. If products are commercially available that meets some but not all of the standards, the agency must procure the product that best meets the standards.

When applying this standard, all procurements of EIT shall have documentation of market research that identify a list of products or services that first meet the agency business needs, and from that list of products or services, an analysis that the selected product met more of the accessibility requirements than the non-selected products as required by FAR 39.2. Any selection of a product or service that meets less accessibility standards due to a significant difficulty or expense shall only be permitted under an undue burden claim and requires approval from the DHS Office on Accessible Systems and Technology (OAST) in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2.

(2) 36 CFR 1194.3(b) – Incidental to Contract, all EIT that is exclusively owned and used by the contractor to fulfill this work statement does not require compliance with Section 508. This exception does not apply to any EIT deliverable, service or item that will be used by any Federal employee(s) or member(s) of the public. This exception only applies to those contractors assigned to fulfill the obligations of this work statement and for the purposes of this requirement, are not considered members of the public.



4.6 Publicity and Dissemination of Contract Information 

Publicity releases or commercial advertising in connection with or referring to this contract or effort shall not be made by the Contractor unless prior written approval has been received from the Contracting Officer.



The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute for public consumption, any information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer.  Two copies of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer.



A minimum of five full business days’ notice is required for requests made in accordance with this provision.



4.7 Advertising of Award

The contractor shall not refer to contract awards in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed or preferred by the Federal Government or is considered by the Government to be superior to other products or services.



4.8 Major Breach of Safety or Security

(a)  Safety is the freedom from those conditions that can cause death, injury, occupational illness, damage to or loss of equipment or property, or damage to the environment.  Safety is essential to TSA and compliance with safety standards and practices is a material part of this contract. A major breach of safety may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this agreement, including termination for default.  A major breach of safety must be related directly to the work on the agreement. A major breach of safety is an act or omission of the Contractor that consists of an accident, incident, or exposure resulting in a fatality, serious injury, or mission failure; or in damage to equipment or property equal to or greater than $1 million; or in any "willful" or "repeat" violation cited by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or by a state agency operating under an OSHA approved plan.



(b) Security is the condition of safeguarding against espionage, sabotage, crime (including computer crime), or attack.  A major breach of security may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this agreement, including termination for default.  A major breach of security may occur on or off Government installations, but must be related directly to the work on the agreement.  A major breach of security is an act or omission by the Contractor that results in compromise of classified information or sensitive security information or sensitive but unclassified information, including contractor proprietary information, illegal technology transfer, workplace violence resulting in criminal conviction, sabotage, compromise or denial of information technology services, equipment or property damage from vandalism greater than $250,000, or theft greater than $250,000. 



NOTE:  Breach of Security for the purposes of this definition should not be confused with breach of security in screening operations.

 

(c) In the event of a major breach of safety or security, the Contractor shall report the breach to the Contracting Officer.  If directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall conduct its own investigation and report the results to the Government.  The Contractor shall cooperate with the Government investigation, if conducted.



4.9 Standards of Conduct and Restrictions

The contractor shall adhere to the same professional and ethical standards of conduct required of Government personnel.  Personnel performing work under this contract shall not:



Solicit new business while performing work under the contract;

Conduct business other than that which is covered by this contract during periods paid by the Government;

Conduct business not directly related to this contract on Government premises;

Use Government computer systems or networks, and/or other Government facilities for company or personal business;

Recruit on Government premises or otherwise act to disrupt official Government business.

(e)  Performance Requirements.



        (1)  The Contractor shall not be liable for any injury to Government personnel or damage to Government property arising from the use of equipment maintained by the Contractor, unless such injury or damage is due to the fault or negligence of the Contractor.



       (2)  Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) and IT Security Division shall conduct reviews to ensure that the requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced.



       (3)  Failure of the contractor to successfully satisfy the requirements of these terms may result in contract termination, withholding of payment, and other remedies available to government under the Federal Acquisition Regulation. 



4.10 Observance of Legal Holidays and Other Absences 

The Government observes the following holidays:



New Year’s Day

Martin Luther King Birthday

President’s Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veteran’s Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day

Inauguration Day (Washington, DC metropolitan area)



In addition to the days designated as holidays, the Government observes also the following days:



Any other day designated by Federal Statute, and

Any other day designated by Executive Order, and

Any other day designated by President’s Proclamation, such as extreme weather conditions.



When the Government grants excused absence to its employees in a specific location, assigned Contractor personnel at that same location may also be dismissed.  The Contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform critical tasks already in operation or scheduled, and shall be guided by the instructions issued by the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative.  Observance of such holidays by Government personnel shall not be a reason for the Contractor to request an extension of the period of performance, or entitlement of compensation except as set forth within the contract.  



In the event the Contractor’s personnel work during the holiday or other excused absences, they may be compensated by the Contractor, however, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be considered either as a direct or indirect cost, other than their normal compensation for the time worked.  For cost reimbursable and time and material (T&M) contracts, the government will only consider as direct and/or indirect costs those efforts actually performed during the holiday or excused absences in the event contractor personnel are not dismissed.  This provision does not preclude reimbursement for authorized overtime work if applicable to this contract.



4.11 Contractor Responsibilities 

The Contractor shall provide all management, administrative, clerical, and supervisory functions required for the effective and efficient performance of this contract.



The Government shall not be liable for any injury to the Contractor’s personnel or damage to the Contractor’s property unless such injury or damage is due to negligence on the part of the Government and is recoverable under the Federal Torts Claims Act, or pursuant to another Federal statutory authority.



A smooth and orderly transition between the Contractor and a predecessor or successor Contractor is necessary to ensure minimum disruption to vital Government business.  The Contractor shall cooperate fully in the transition.



The Contractor shall adhere to the same professional and ethical standards of conduct required of Government personnel.  The Contractor shall not:



Discuss with unauthorized persons any information obtained in the performance of work under this contract.

Conduct business not directly related to this contract on Government premises.

Use computer systems and/or other Government facilities for company or personal business other than work related; or

Recruit on Government premises or otherwise act to disrupt official Government business.



4.12 Interrelationship of Associate Contractors  

The TSA may enter into contractual agreements with other Contractors (i.e., “Associate Contractors”) in order to fulfill requirements separate from the work to be performed under this contract, yet having a relationship to performance under this contract. It is expected that contractors working under TSA contracts will have to work together under certain conditions in order to achieve a common solution for TSA.   The Contractor may be required to coordinate with other such Contractor(s) through the cognizant Contracting Officer (CO) and/or designated representative in providing suitable, non-conflicting technical and/or management interface and in avoidance of duplication of effort.  Information on deliverables provided under separate contracts may, at the discretion of the TSA and/or other Government agencies, be provided to such other Contractor(s) for the purpose of such work.



Where the Contractor and an associate Contractor fail to agree upon action to be taken in connection with their respective responsibilities, each Contractor shall promptly bring the matters to the attention of the cognizant CO and furnish the Contractor’s recommendations for a solution. The Contractor shall not be relieved of its obligations to make timely deliveries or be entitled to any other adjustment because of failure of the Contractor and its associate to promptly refer matters to the CO or because of failure to implement CO directions.  



Where the Contractor and Associate Contractors are required to collaborate to deliver a service; the Government will designate, in writing and prior to the definition of the task, to both Contractors, a “lead Contractor” for the project. In these cases the Associate Contractors shall also be contractually required to coordinate and collaborate with the Contractor. TSA will facilitate the mutual execution of Non-Disclosure Agreements.



Compliance with this Special Contract Requirement is included in the contract price and shall not be a basis for equitable adjustment.



4.13 Disclosure of Information   

Information furnished by the Contractor under this contract may be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  Therefore, all items that are confidential to business, or contain trade secrets, proprietary, or personally-identifiable information must be clearly marked.



Any information made available to the Contractor by the Government must be used only for the purpose of carrying out the requirements of this contract and must not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.



In performance of this contract, the Contractor assumes responsibility for protection of the confidentiality of Government records and information and must ensure that all work performed by its Subcontractor(s) shall be under the supervision of the Contractor or the Contractor’s employees.



4.14 HSAR 3052.204-71 Contractor Employee Access (Alternate I) (JUN 2006)

(a) Sensitive Information, as used in this Chapter, means any information, the loss, misuse, disclosure, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could adversely affect the national or homeland security interest, or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense, homeland security or foreign policy. This definition includes the following categories of information:

(1) Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (Title II, Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto (Title 6, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 29) as amended, the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the PCII Program Manager or his/her designee);

(2) Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as defined in Title 49, Code of Federal

Regulations, Part 1520, as amended, “Policies and Procedures of Safeguarding and Control of SSI,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or his/her designee);

(3) Information designated as “For Official Use Only,” which is unclassified information of a sensitive nature and the unauthorized disclosure of which could adversely impact a person’s privacy or welfare, the conduct of Federal programs, or other programs or operations essential to the national or homeland security interest; and

(4) Any information that is designated “sensitive” or subject to other controls, safeguards or protections in accordance with subsequently adopted homeland security information handling procedures.



(b) “Information Technology Resources” include, but are not limited to, computer equipment, networking equipment, telecommunications equipment, cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites, and internet sites.



(c) Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. All contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to sensitive information or IT resources are required to have a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this contract unless this requirement is waived under Departmental procedures.



(d) The Contracting Officer may require the contractor to prohibit individuals from working on the contract if the government deems their initial or continued employment contrary to the public interest for any reason, including, but not limited to, carelessness, insubordination, incompetence, or security concerns.



(e) Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information. Therefore, the Contractor shall not disclose, orally or in writing, any sensitive information to any person unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. For those contractor employees authorized access to sensitive information, the contractor shall ensure that these persons receive training concerning the protection and disclosure of sensitive information both during and after contract performance.



(f) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources.



(g) Before receiving access to IT resources under this contract the individual must receive a security briefing, which the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) will arrange, and complete any nondisclosure agreement furnished by DHS.



(h) The contractor shall have access only to those areas of DHS information technology resources explicitly stated in this contract or approved by the COTR in writing as necessary for performance of the work under this contract. Any attempts by contractor personnel to gain access to any information technology resources not expressly authorized by the statement of work, other terms and conditions in this contract, or as approved in writing by the COTR, is strictly prohibited. In the event of violation of this provision, DHS will take appropriate actions with regard to the contract and the individual(s) involved.



(i) Contractor access to DHS networks from a remote location is a temporary privilege for mutual convenience while the contractor performs business for the DHS Component. It is not a right, a guarantee of access, a condition of the contract, or Government Furnished Equipment (GFE).



(j) Contractor access will be terminated for unauthorized use. The contractor agrees to hold and save DHS harmless from any unauthorized use and agrees not to request additional time or money under the contract for any delays resulting from unauthorized use or access.



(k) Non-U.S. citizens shall not be authorized to access or assist in the development, operation, management or maintenance of Department IT systems under the contract, unless a waiver has been granted by the Head of the Component or designee, with the concurrence of both the Department’s Chief Security Officer (CSO) and the Chief Information Officer (CIO) or their designees. Within DHS Headquarters, the waiver may be granted only with the approval of both the CSO and the CIO or their designees. In order for a waiver to be granted:

(1) The individual must be a legal permanent resident of the U.S. or a citizen of Ireland, Israel, the Republic of the Philippines, or any nation on the Allied Nations List maintained by the Department of State;

(2) There must be a compelling reason for using this individual as opposed to a U.S. citizen; and

(3) The waiver must be in the best interest of the Government.



(l) Contractors shall identify in their proposals the names and citizenship of all non-U.S. citizens proposed to work under the contract. Any additions or deletions of non-U.S. citizens after contract award shall also be reported to the contracting officer.



4.15 HSAR 3052.204-70  Security Requirements For Unclassified Information Technology Resources (JUN 2006)

(a) The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology (IT) security for all systems connected to a DHS network or operated by the Contractor for DHS, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services for which the Contractor must have physical or electronic access to sensitive information contained in DHS unclassified systems that directly support the agency's mission.



(b) The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract.

(1) Within 30 days after contract award, the contractor shall submit for approval its IT Security Plan, which shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal. The plan, as approved by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.

(2) The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Computer Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.); the Government Information Security Reform Act of 2000; and the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002; and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A-130.

(3) The security plan shall specifically include instructions regarding handling and protecting sensitive information at the Contractor's site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor's computer systems), and the secure management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems.



(c) Examples of tasks that require security provisions include--

(1) Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DHS with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and

(2) Access to DHS networks or computers at a level beyond that granted the general public (e.g., such as bypassing a firewall).



(d) At the expiration of the contract, the contractor shall return all sensitive DHS information and IT resources provided to the contractor during the contract, and certify that all non-public DHS information has been purged from any contractor-owned system. Components shall conduct reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced.



(e) Within 6 months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to DHS for approval by the DHS Contracting Officer. Accreditation will proceed according to the criteria of the DHS Sensitive System Policy Publication, 4300A (Version 5.5, September 30, 2007) or any replacement publication, which the Contracting Officer will provide upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The contractor shall comply with the approved accreditation documentation.



4.16 Access to Unclassified Facilities, Information Technology Resources, and Sensitive Information 

The assurance of the security of unclassified facilities, Information Technology (IT) resources, and sensitive information during the acquisition process and contract performance are essential to the DHS mission. DHS Management Directive (MD) 11042.1 Safeguarding Sensitive But Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information, describes how contractors must handle sensitive but unclassified information. DHS MD 4300.1 Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook prescribe policies and procedures on security for IT resources. Contractors shall comply with these policies and procedures, any replacement publications, or any other current or future DHS policies and procedures covering contractors specifically for all Task Orders that require access to DHS facilities, IT resources or sensitive information. Contractors shall not use or redistribute any DHS information processed, stored, or transmitted by the contractor except as specified in the task order.



4.17 Security Review 

The Government may elect to conduct periodic reviews to ensure that the security requirements contained in this contract are being implemented and enforced. The Contractor shall afford DHS, including the organization of the DHS Office of the Chief Information Officer, the Office of the Inspector General, authorized Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), and other government oversight organizations, access to the Contractor’s facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases and personnel used in the performance of this contract. The Contractor will contact the DHS Chief Information Security Officer to coordinate and participate in the review and inspection activity of government oversight organizations external to the DHS. Access shall be provided to the extent necessary for the government to carry out a program of inspection, investigation, and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability and confidentiality of DHS data or the function of computer systems operated on behalf of DHS, and to preserve evidence of computer crime.



SECTION 5: ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 



5.1: FAR 52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items. (Jul 2010)



(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 



(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (). 

(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 



(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 



_X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

_X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

__ (6) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (7) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (8) [Reserved] 

_X_ (9)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6. 

__ (10)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. 

_X_ (11) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) ( and (3)). 

__ (12)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. 

_X_ (13) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

__ (14) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (15)	(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. 

__ (16) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (17) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (18) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

_X_ (19)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (). 

_X_ (20) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

_X_ (21) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

_X_ (22) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

_X_ (23) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

_X_ (24) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

_X_ (25) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (). 

_X_ (26) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

__ (27) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) 

__ (28)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

_X_ (29) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (30)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. 

__ (31) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (32)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. 

__ (33) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

_X_ (34) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (35) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (36) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (37) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (38) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

_X_ (39) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

__ (40) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (41) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (42) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (43)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. 



(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 



__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 



(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 



(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (). 

(vii) [Reserved] 

(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (). 

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. 

(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 





5.2 FAR 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 



(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 



(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years. 



SECTION 6: INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS 



6.1: FAR 52.212-1  Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (June 2008) 

(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet. However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 100 employees. 



(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR  (see FAR (b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); 

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) Include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 



(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.  [See Addendum below].



(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 



(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 



(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 



(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 



(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 



(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 



GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407 

Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978. 

(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (). 

(ii) Quick Search (). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 



(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR ) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at . An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. 



(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 



(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. 



Addendum to 52.212-1(a):

The North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code for this procurement is listed in Section 1, Paragraph (e) of this synopsis/solicitation.  



Addendum to 52.212-1(c):

The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers.



6.2: Specific Instructions for Submission of Offers 

(a) Offers in response to this solicitation must be received by the Government not later than 1:00 PM EST on July 17, 2012.  Offers shall be submitted electronically via email only and shall be submitted to the following: 



Justin Zerbato				Kristin Fuller

Contract Specialist			Contracting Officer

Phone: 571-227-5478			Phone: 571-227-2740

		Kristin.Fuller@tsa.dhs.gov



(b) Offers shall be submitted in two (2) separate files: Volume 1, Technical; and Volume 2, Price and Representations and Certifications.  Each proposal volume shall be prepared and submitted in Microsoft Office format.    



(c) Technical Proposals.  Offerors’ Volume 1 proposals shall describe the offered products and services required in the solicitation, as defined in Section 3.  Offerors’ proposals shall clearly describe the ability of the offered products and services to meet the requirements defined in Section 3.  Offerors proposals must address all requirements as defined in Section 3.    



(e) Price Proposals. Offerors’ Volume 2 proposals shall include the proposed prices for the requirements of this synopsis/solicitation as identified in the CLIN table in Section 2 of the solicitation.  Offerors shall fill in the unit pricing and total pricing information in the CLIN table contained in Section 2.  Offerors shall also include their catalog or commercial published pricing information for the required items in order to substantiate the prices proposed in response to this solicitation.  If the pricing provided by the Offerors are different than their catalogue prices, the Offerors shall provide an explanation in their proposal for the difference in pricing.  Offerors’ Volume 2 proposals shall also include a completed copy, as necessary, of the Representations and Certifications found in Attachment 1 to this synopsis/solicitation.  



(f) Page Limits. Volume 1 proposals shall not exceed 10 pages, inclusive of any cover page and table of contents.  Volume 2 proposals shall not exceed 7 pages.  



(g) Requests for Clarification.  Any questions regarding this solicitation must be submitted by July, 25, 2012, to the point of contact provided above.  Questions received after this date may not receive a response prior to the due date and time for receipt of proposals.  The TSA reserves the right to publish a list of questions and answers received in response to the solicitation if the TSA determines that the lack of this information may be prejudicial to other offerors.  









 



CLIN

Description

Quantity

Unit Price

Extended

Price



Base Period: 1 Year from Date of Award 



















00001



Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management 

15

$_______

$_______ 



10001



Option Year 1: Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management

15

$_______

$_______

20001

Option Year 2: Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management











15

$_______

$_______



30001

Option Year 3: Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management











15

$_______

$_______



40001

Option Year 4: Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management











15

$_______

$_______



50001



Option Year 5: Software solution and maintenance for investigative records management

15

$_______

$_______