DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 1 Page 1 of 4

Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management Billing Instructions Cost Reimbursement Contracts
1. Introduction

Reimbursement procedures related to negotiated cost-type contracts involve the preparation and submission by Contractors of properly prepared vouchers to the Government. These instructions are provided for the use of Contractors in the preparation and submission of vouchers requesting reimbursement for work performed under the contract. The submission of vouchers as suggested herein will keep the correspondence and other causes for delay to a minimum and will thus assure prompt payment to the Contractor. 2. Forms to be Used

In requesting reimbursement, Contractors are urged to use the regular Government voucher forms, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal, SF-1034 and Continuation Sheet, SF-1035. Or the Contractor may use its own forms, provided the Contractor's forms follow the format of the SF-1034 and SF-1035. 3. Preparation

Each billing shall be prepared in an original and two copies, arranged in two parts as follows and submitted at intervals as specified by the terms of the contract. Each billing must be sequentially numbered, beginning with 1 for each contract. Billings for different contracts may not be co-mingled on a single billing. Part I - Summary of All Costs This portion consists of a listing of cost elements, by general categories, i.e., direct labor, overhead, etc., showing the amounts incurred during the period covered by the billing. The reimbursement costs incurred, and the dates for the period for which billing is made, must fall within the period as set forth in the contract. The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for support service contracts: "I certify that the hours and/or materials identified are allocable to the job being billed and that the costs are justified as attributable solely to the performance of this Government contract."

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 1 Page 2 of 4

The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for all other cost reimbursement contracts other than support services: "I certify that all payments requested have been incurred, are allocable to this contract and have not been billed previously." Part II - Details of Direct and Indirect Costs: This part consists of a detailed statement of direct and indirect costs and supports each category of costs shown in Part I. The Contractor shall include a breakdown for the current billing period and cumulative totals since contract execution. The detailed information to be continued in Part II is to assist the Contracting Officer and program office personnel in verifying voucher vis-a-vis contract performance. The categories of costs should be itemized and described as follows: a. Direct Labor

Direct labor costs consist of salaries and wages paid for scientific, technical and other work performed pursuant to the terms of the contract and shall be billed as follows: List employees whose salaries or wages, or portions thereof, were charged to the contract; show the name, title, rate, days (or hours) worked and amount for each individual. Indicate if the labor rates include fringe benefits. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as a direct cost at a percentage of total labor costs, show the rate and amount as a separate item. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as an indirect cost, such costs shall be billed separately as an indirect cost item. The cost of direct labor charged directly to the contract shall be supported by time records maintained in the Contractor's office. (NOTE: Fringe benefits, bonuses, etc., are usually treated as indirect costs for inclusion in the overhead pool; however, they may be treated as direct labor costs or as "Other Direct Costs" if this treatment is in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards). Premium pay is the difference between the rates normally paid on a straight time basis, and amounts paid for overtime or shift work. Such pay is not included in the direct labor and shall not be included in the billing for "direct labor" unless the Contractor has permission to utilize premium rates. Unless provided for in the contract, premium pay must be authorized by the Contracting Officer in advance. Billings for unauthorized premium pay cause delays in payment due to suspensions and exchange of correspondence. Citations to authorizations for premium pay will avoid delays in payment.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 1 Page 3 of 4

Authorized premium pay may be shown in Part I as a single item; in Part II it must be separately itemized for each position or job category showing the amount and a citation of the Contracting Officer's letter of authorization. If there is an annual escalation clause for direct labor in the contract, these rates shall not be exceeded in the billings. b. Materials and Supplies

Only those items which the Contractor normally treats as "direct costs" shall be claimed under this heading. Items costing less than $25 should be listed by category of materials or supplies (e.g., film, rentals, office supplies). Materials and supplies which exceed a unit price of $25 should be billed separately. Show the description and dollar amount of individual items. All materials and supplies charges must be supported by the Contractor's records. c. Other Direct Costs

NOTE: Other direct costs represent expenses related directly to the contract, provided such expenses are consistently treated as direct costs rather than indirect costs. d. Travel

When authorized in the contract as a direct cost, travel costs directly related to specific contract performance may be billed as a direct cost. Travel costs detail in Part II shall include: 1. Name of traveler and official title.

2. Purpose of trip.
3. Dates of departure and return to starting point (station or airport).

4. Transportation costs, identified as to rail, air, private automobile (including mileage and rate) and taxi.
5. Unless otherwise authorized, travel costs will be reimbursed based on DOT Travel Regulations. This regulation provides for CONUS Per Diem reimbursement prescribed by GSA. Current regulation limits first and last days of travel to 3/4 Per Diem for each day. If travel is made at other than economy fares, a statement shall be included indicating the reason for the deviation. Also, a copy of the air or rail ticket shall be included.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 1 Page 4 of 4

e.

Consultant Fees

Part II of the voucher shall include the consultant's name, rate, number of days or parts of days and the total amount of charges. f. Subcontract Payments

The voucher shall include the name of the subcontractor and the total amount of charges, supported by a break-down by elements of cost. g. Equipment Nonexpendable equipment must be identified, showing name of article, make, model, number of units, unit cost, and total cost. h. Indirect Costs Pending the establishment of final negotiated indirect rates for the Contractor's fiscal year or period of contract, whichever is applicable, indirect costs, i.e., overhead, fringe benefits and general and administrative expense must be billed at rates set forth in the contract. Rates can be changed during performance of the contract only by contract modification. When the rates are changed, the Contractor shall show revised rates on succeeding vouchers. i. Fixed-Fee

Fixed-Fee, is to be billed in accordance with the terms of the contract. j. Cost of Money

If applicable, cost of money shall be billed at rates set forth in the contract. k. Withholding Indicate the amount of cost/fee to be deducted from the cost subtotal, along with the percentage of withholding, as set forth in the contract.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 2 Page 1 of 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE SF 1034 The SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, shall be completed in accordance with the below instructions. The numbered items correspond to the entries on the form. Caption on the SF 1034 1. U.S. DEPARTMENT, BUREAU, OR ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION 2. DATE VOUCHER PREPARED Data to be Inserted in the Block Name and address of the contracting office which issued the contract. Date voucher submitted to the designated billing office cited under the contract or order. Contract No. and, when applicable, the Order No. and date as shown on the award document. Leave blank or fill-in in accordance with the instructions in the contract. Start with "1" and number consecutively. A separate series of consecutive numbers must be used beginning with "1" for each contract number or order number (when applicable). Note: Insert the word "FINAL" if this is the last voucher. Leave all these blocks blank.

3. CONTRACT NO. AND DATE 4. REQUISITION NO. AND DATE 5. VOUCHER NO.

6. SCHEDULE NO.; PAID BY; DATE INVOICE RECEIVED; DISCOUNT TERMS; PAYEE'S ACCOUNT NO.; SHIPPED FROM/TO; WEIGHT; GOVERNMENT B/L 7. PAYEE'S NAME AND ADDRESS

8. NUMBER AND DATE OF ORDER 9. DATE OF DELIVERY OR SERVICE

10. ARTICLES OR SERVICES

Name and address of contractor as it appears on the contract. If the contract is assigned to a bank, also show "CONTRACT ASSIGNED" below the name and address of the contractor. Leave blank. (See #3 above.) The period for which the incurred costs are being claimed (e.g., month and year; beginning and ending date of services, etc.). Insert the following: "For detail, see the total amount of the claim transferred from the attached SF 1035, page X of X." One space below this line, insert the following: "COST REIMBURSABLEPROVISIONAL PAYMENT." Leave blank. Insert the total amount claimed from the last page of the SF 1035. Do NOT write or type below this line.

11. QUANTITY; UNIT PRICE; (COST; PER) 12. AMOUNT Payee must NOT use the space below.

DTFH61-10-R-00019
Attachment No. 3 Page 1 of 1

OF-17 (12/93) Offer Label FAR (48) CFR 53.214(g)) FAR (48) CFR 53.215-1(h)) NOTICE TO OFFEROR
1. This label may only be used on envelopes larger than 156 mm (6 1/8 inches) in height and 292 mm (11 1/2 inches) in length. 2. Print or type your name and address in the UPPER left corner of the envelope containing your offer. 3. Complete the bottom portion of this form and paste it on the LOWER left corner of the envelope, unless the envelope is 156 mm by 292 mm ( 6 1/8 inches by 11 1/2 inches) or smaller.

OFFER
SOLICITATION NO.: DTFH61-10-R-00020 DATE FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: August 27, 2010___ TIME FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: ______3:30 pm__________ OFFICE DESIGNATED TO RECEIVE OFFERS: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Room E65-101 Washington, DC 20590 Attention: Jennifer Johnson, HAAM-30A

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 4 Page 1 of 3

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE Source Selection Sensitive (when completed)
OFFEROR/TEAM: ____________________________________________________________________ 1. REFERENCE INFORMATION FOR: Contractor: Contract Number: Type of Contract: Period of Performance: Contract Value: 2. (initial) $ (current)..$ ( ) Fixed Price Type ( ) Cost-Reimbursement Type ( ) Other:

CONTACT INFORMATION: Please provide the following information for the person(s) providing the reference (to assist us in tracking responses received and resolving any conflicts in the evaluation process if necessary) Name of Contact: Phone & Fax Numbers: Organization/Office: Position Title/Grade: Period of involvement in contract: Questionnaire Completion Date:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 4 Page 2 of 3

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONAIRE
For the following questions, please circle/check the appropriate rating. Comment lines are provided for additional information if the #2 or #1 rating is given (however the comment lines may be used to provide any additional information deemed noteworthy).

High 1. QUALITY OF SERVICE: 5 4 3 2

Low 1

This area deals with compliance of contract requirements, to include appropriateness of personnel and technical excellence. High 2. TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE: 5 4 3 2 Low 1

This area deals with the contractor's ability to meet milestones and delivery schedules, to include responsiveness to technical direction, completion of efforts on time including wrapup and contract administration. High 3. PRICE/COST CONTROL: 5 4 3 2 Low 1

This area deals with the contractor's ability to control price/cost escalation during performance to include appropriate budgetary estimates, current/accurate/complete billings/invoices, relationship of negotiated costs to actual, claim submissions, cost efficiencies, and change order issues. High 4. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: 5 4 3 2 Low 1

This area deals with the contractor's commitment to satisfaction and cooperative/reasonable businesslike behavior with own staff and customers to include: effective management, responsiveness to clients or Government program personnel, operates with honesty and integrity, prompt notification of problems, flexible and proactive qualities, effective contractor-recommended solutions, and effective subcontracting and teaming arrangements. Comments (attach additional pages as necessary):

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 4 Page 3 of 3

GENERAL INFORMATION: Please provide answers to the following questions. 5. Has the contractor ever been given a cure notice, show cause notice, suspension of progress payments, or other letters directing the correction of a performance problem; or has this contract been partially or completely terminated, or is there any pending termination actions? ( ) No ( ) Yes If yes: ( ) Default ( ) Convenience; and please explain: 6. Changes in contract dollar value throughout the life of the contract are/were attributable, for the most part, to: ( ) Government-issued change orders ( ) claims submitted by the contractor ( ) other Government actions ( ) other contractor actions (please explain below) Based on this contractor's overall performance, would you award this contractor another Government contract? ( ) Yes ( ) No 8. If no, please explain:

7.

If any of the above responses are based on adverse past performance, have you discussed it with the contractor and has the contractor had an opportunity to comment? ( ) No If yes or no, please explain:

( ) Not Applicable ( ) Yes

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 5 Page 1 of 3

CONTRACT PRICING SUMMARY (For New Contracts Including Letter Contracts) (See Instructions on Reverse) This form is for use in support of Standard Form 1411 prescribed by GSA, FAR (48 CFR) 53.215-2(c), Format 7A

PAGE

OF OMB Control No. 2105-0517 Expiration Date: 5/31/00

PAGES

This collection of information is mandatory and will be used to fulfill the requirements of the Transportation Acquisition Regulation (TAR). Public reporting burden is estimated to average 5 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the FAR Secretariat (VRS), Office of Federal Acquisition and Regulatory Policy, GSA, Washington, D.C. 20405; and to the Office of Management and Budget,, Information and Regulatory Offices, 725 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20503. Please note that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. The OMB control number for this collection is 2105-0517.

NAME OF OFFEROR HOME OFFICE ADDRESS

SUPPLIES AND/OR SERVICES TO BE FURNISHED

DIVISION(S) AND LOCATIONS(S) WHERE WORK IS TO BE PERFORMED

GOV'T SOLICITATION NO. DTFH61-99-R-00025

.DETAIL DESCRIPTION OF COST ELEMENTS TOTAL EST COST

1.

DIRECT MATERIAL
A. PURCHASED PARTS B. SUBCONTRACTED ITEMS C. OTHER -(1) RAW MATERIAL (2) STANDARD COMMERCIAL ITEMS TOTAL DIRECT MATERIAL

EST COST ($)

REFERENCE

2. 3.

MATERIAL OVERHEAD DIRECT LABOR

(RATE ___ % x $_____ BASE)=

ESTIMATED HOURS

RATE/ HOUR

EST COST ($)

TOTAL DIRECT LABOR 4. LABOR OVERHEAD O.H. RATE x BASE = EST COST ($)

TOTAL LABOR OVERHEAD 5. OTHER DIRECT COSTS A. SPECIAL TOOLING/EQUIPMENT EST COST ($)

TOTAL SPECIAL TOOLING\EQUIPMENT B. TRAVEL (1) TRANSPORTATION (2) PER DIEM OR SUBSISTENCE TOTAL TRAVEL C. INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT SERVICES TOTAL INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT SERVICES D. OTHER TOTAL OTHER SUBTOTAL DIRECT COST AND OVERHEAD 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. FEE OR PROFIT 12.
Form DOT F 4220.44 (REV. 6/97)(EXCEL)

EST COST ($)

EST COST ($)

EST COST ($)

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE (G&A) EXPENSE ROYALTIES

(RATE ___ % x $_____ BASE (I.E., COST ELEMENT NOS. _____))=

SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST CONTRACT FACILITIES CAPITAL AND COST OF MONEY SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE OR PROFIT
PREVIOUS EDITION OBSOLETE AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 5 Page 2 of 3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING CONTRACT PRICING SUMMARY Offerors are instructed to prepare their cost proposals in sufficient detail to permit thorough and complete evaluation by the Government. A separate DOT F 4220.44 is required for the basic and each option period (if applicable). The supporting data for the DOT F 4220.44 shall be as follows. (NOTE: The DOT F 4220.44 shall be used to implement the requirements of the SF 1411 and does not relieve offerors from complying with FAR 15.804-6 requirements.) (a) The basis for all proposed rates (including a copy of the indirect cost pool and a computational trail to arrive at the proposed rate shall be clearly identified when the proposed rates are not approved by a rnment audit agency for use in proposals; or approved by the Government audit agency, but the oval is 12 months or more old. State rather an approved (within 12 months) Government audit agency was used. (b) The information below clarifies FAR 15.804-6 requirements for specific cost elements. The cost ents listed below shall be supported, as a minimum, with the following: 1. DIRECT MATERIAL. A. Purchased Parts: Provide a consolidated priced summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or contract line items being proposed and the basis for pricing (vendor quotes, invoices prices, etc.). Give details on an attached schedule. B. Subcontracted Items: Show the total cost of subcontract effort and provide a separate SF 1411 and supporting DOT F 4220.44 for each subcontractor or written quotations from the prospective subcontractor in accordance with FAR 15.806-2. C. Other. (1) Raw Material: Consists of material in a form or state that requires further processing. Provide priced quantities of items required for the proposal. Show total cost and give details on an attached schedule. (2) Standard Commercial Items: Consists of items that the offeror normally fabricates, in whole or in part, and that are generally stocked in inventory. Provide an appropriate explanation of the basis for pricing. If price is based on cost, provide a cost breakdown; if priced at other than cost, provide justification for exemption from submission of cost or pricing data, as required by FAR 15.804-3(e). Show total cost and give details on an attached schedule. 2. MATERIAL OVERHEAD. Show cost here only if your accounting system provides for such ost segregation and only if this cost is not computed as part of labor overhead (item 4) or General and dministrative (G&A) (item 6). 3. DIRECT LABOR. Show the hourly rate and the total hours for each individual (if known) and iscipline of direct labor proposed. Indicate whether actual rates or escalated rates are used. If escalation included, state the degree (percent) and rationale used. 4. LABOR OVERHEAD. See paragraph (a) above.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 5 Page 3 of 3

5. OTHER DIRECT COSTS. A. Special Tooling/Equipment. Identify and support specific equipment and unit prices. Use a separate schedule if necessary. B. Travel. Identify and support each trip proposed and the persons (or disciplines) designated to make each trip. Identify and support transportation and per diem rates. C. Individual Consultant Services. Identify and support the proposed contemplated consultants. State the amount of service estimated to be required and the consultant's quoted daily or hourly rate. D. Other Costs. List all other direct charge costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., services of specialized trades, computer services, preservation, packaging and packing, leasing of equipment) and provide bases for pricing. 6. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE. See paragraph (a) above and base approved y a Government audit agency for use in proposals. 7. ROYALTIES. If more than $250, provide the following information on a separate page for each eparate royalty or license fee; name and address of licensor; date of license agreement; patent numbers, atent application serial numbers, or other basis on which the royalty is payable; brief description ncluding any part of model numbers of each contract item or component on which the royalty is ayable); percentage or dollar rate of royalty per unit; unit price of contract item; number of units; and otal dollar amount of royalties. In addition, if specifically requested by the Contracting Officer, provide a opy of the current license agreement and identification of applicable claims of specific patents. (See FAR 7.204 and 31.205-37) 8. SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST. Enter the total of all direct and indirect costs excluding ontract Facilities Capital and Cost of Money and Fee or Profit. 9. CONTRACT FACILITIES CAPITAL AND COST OF MONEY. Show total cost on line 9 and ttach supporting calculations on the CASB-CMF forms. (See FAR 31.205-10). 10. SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST. Enter the total of all proposed costs excluding Fee or Profit nd insert this amount in Section 6.A. of SF 1411. 11. FEE OR PROFIT. Enter this proposed Fee or Profit and insert this amount in Section 6.B. of SF 411. 12. TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE OR PROFIT. Enter the total estimated cost including ee or Profit. (c) Under the column entitled, "Reference," identify the attachment where information supporting the fic cost element may be found.

DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES

Approved by OMB

Complete this form to disclose lobbying activities pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352 0348-0046 (See reverse for public burden disclosure.) 1. Type of Federal Action: 2. Status of Federal Action: 3. Report Type: a. contract a. bid/offer/application a. initial filing b. grant b. initial award b. material change c. cooperative agreement c. post-award For Material Change Only: d. loan year _________ quarter _________ e. loan guarantee date of last report ______________ f. loan insurance 4. Name and Address of Reporting Entity: 5. If Reporting Entity in No. 4 is a Subawardee, Enter Name Subawardee and Address of Prime: Prime Tier ______, if known :

Congressional District , if known : 4c 6. Federal Department/Agency:

Congressional District, if known : 7. Federal Program Name/Description:

CFDA Number, if applicable : _____________ 8. Federal Action Number, if known : 10. a. Name and Address of Lobbying Registrant ( if individual, last name, first name, MI ): 9. Award Amount, if known : $ b. Individuals Performing Services (including address if different from No. 10a ) ( last name, first name, MI ):

requested through this form is authorized by title 31 U.S.C. section 11. Information 1352. This disclosure of lobbying activities is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed by the tier above when this transaction was made or entered into. This disclosure is required pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352. This information will be available for public inspection. Any person who fails to file the required disclosure shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

Signature: Print Name: Title: Telephone No.: _______________________ Date:

Federal Use Only:

Authorized for Local Reproduction Standard Form LLL (Rev. 7-97)

PRINT

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION OF SF-LLL, DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES

This disclosure form shall be completed by the reporting entity, whether subawardee or prime Federal recipient, at the initiation or receipt of a covered Federal action, or a material change to a previous filing, pursuant to title 31 U.S.C. section 1352. The filing of a form is required for each payment or agreement to make payment to any lobbying entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employeeof any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employeeof a Member of Congress in connection with a covered Federal action. Complete all items that apply for both the initial filing and material change report. Refer to the implementing guidance published by the Office of Management and Budget for additional information.

1. Identify the type of covered Federal action for which lobbying activity is and/or has been secured to influence the outcome of a covered Federal action. 2. Identify the status of the covered Federal action. 3. Identify the appropriate classification of this report. If this is a followup report caused by a material change to the information previously reported, enter the year and quarter in which the change occurred. Enter the date of the last previously submitted report by this reporting entity for this covered Federal action. 4. Enter the full name, address, city, State and zip code of the reporting entity. Include Congressional District, if known. Check the appropriateclassification of the reporting entity that designates if it is, or expects to be, a prime or subaward recipient. Identify the tier of the subawardee,e.g., the first subawardee of the prime is the 1st tier. Subawards include but are not limited to subcontracts, subgrants and contract awards under grants. 5. If the organization filing the report in item 4 checks "Subawardee," then enter the full name, address, city, State and zip code of the prime Federal recipient. Include Congressional District, if known. 6. Enter the name of the Federal agency making the award or loan commitment. Include at least one organizationallevel below agency name, if known. For example, Department of Transportation, United States Coast Guard. 7. Enter the Federal program name or description for the covered Federal action (item 1). If known, enter the full Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for grants, cooperative agreements, loans, and loan commitments. 8. Enter the most appropriate Federal identifying number available for the Federal action identified in item 1 (e.g., Request for Proposal (RFP) number; Invitation for Bid (IFB) number; grant announcement number; the contract, grant, or loan award number; the application/proposal control number assigned by the Federal agency). Include prefixes, e.g., "RFP-DE-90-001." 9. For a covered Federal action where there has been an award or loan commitment by the Federal agency, enter the Federal amount of the award/loan commitment for the prime entity identified in item 4 or 5. 10. (a) Enter the full name, address, city, State and zip code of the lobbying registrant under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 engaged by the reporting entity identified in item 4 to influence the covered Federal action. (b) Enter the full names of the individual(s) performing services, and include full address if different from 10 (a). Enter Last Name, First Name, and Middle Initial (MI). 11. The certifying official shall sign and date the form, print his/her name, title, and telephone number. According to the Paperwork Reduction Act, as amended, no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB Control Number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is OMB No. 0348-0046. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 10 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0348-0046), Washington, DC 20503.

RFP No. DTFH61-10-R-00019 Attachment No. 7: Labor Categories and Position Descriptions
Overview of the Labor Categories and Position Descriptions ­ Below are the labor categories, including general position descriptions, being requested for the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Technical Support Services Contract. It is important to recognize that personnel with many different and varied skills will be required to support the ITS JPO over the life of the contract. The personnel types needed range from senior program managers, policy experts, planners, engineers, scientists, systems engineers, information technology experts, communications technology and standards experts, enterprise architects, human factors specialists, regulatory and standards specialists, financial specialists, security experts, business planners, market researchers, technology specialists, governance specialists, traffic and crash analysis specialists, right-of-way/utility specialists, climatology/meteorology experts, environmental scientists, legal counsel --- to name a few. The broad labor categories provided below will naturally have some flexibility with regard to the specialty expertise required and how the expertise fits into the labor categories. While some of the specialty skills needed are identified in the position descriptions, these skills are not all inclusive and are given merely as representative examples. As personnel are selected to fill the labor categories listed below, the offeror should think in terms of providing the most capable team to support the ITS program over the life of the contract. The offeror's personnel, including any subcontractors, should be capable of addressing all of the competencies and task areas, including the specialized expertise that will be necessary during the conduct of the research, demonstration, and implementation program. Evaluation of offeror's proposals will consider both the experience and skills of the proposed individuals as well as the comprehensiveness of the overall project team in its ability to support the ITS program.
Category Number Degree Requirements (from an accredited college or university) Master's Degree in planning, engineering, and scientific fields Minimum Years of Relevant Experience and Other Relevant Information At least 20 years of experience in the ITS field in related and/or transportation areas. Program Management Professional (PMP), or equivalent, is required.

Title/Definition

Substitutions

1

PROGRAM EXECUTIVE
Provide multi-modal ITS leadership and management for all contract activities; develop overall program plans, guidance, and procedures necessary to adequately provide support required by diverse technical, administrative, and program functions and operations. Coordinate and monitor the scheduling, pricing, and technical performance of programs. Responsibilities also include leading negotiations of contracts and contractual changes and coordinating preparations of proposals, plans, specifications, and financial conditions of contracts. Ensure adherence to program requirements, schedules, and budgets and develop solutions to Project Management Institute (PMI) certification is required for the PMP, but other programs of similar nature that are recognized and teach the same PMI

1

program problems. Act as advisor to program team regarding thought leadership issues associated with projects, tasks, and operations. Thoroughly familiar with ITS concepts, practices, and procedures and has worked in all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Must have worked in many of the surface transportation modes and have experience in working at the federal, state, and local government levels. Must also have experience with public-private partnerships related to major ITS multi-modal programs Rely on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of complex and industry problem solving tasks. A high degree of creativity and ITS multi-modal transportation knowledge from extensive experience in the ITS field is required to fill this position.

principles may be acceptable.

2

DEPUTY PROGRAM MANAGER
Lead the ITS Technical Services Support Contract in the management and multi-modal ITS technical direction of contract activities. Assist the Program Executive in monitoring contract performance with respect to quality of the deliverables, project milestones and project expenditures. Give direction to contractor personnel which will ensure that actions taken and recommendations made are in accordance with the ITS JPO goals and objectives and that such activities fit with the ITS National Architecture. Ensure that contractor personnel are kept abreast of emerging technologies that could impact the ITS National Architecture. Must have a full knowledge of multi-modal ITS technologies and have worked with all aspects of the ITS program life-cycle. Thoroughly familiar with multi-modal ITS concepts, practices, and procedures and have been involved in state-of-the­ art ITS programs. Rely on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of complex tasks. A certain degree of creativity and latitude is required. Master's Degree in planning, engineering, and scientific fields Minimum of 15 years of experience in project management and management responsibilities working with ITS programs in excess of $50 million. Program Management Professional (PMP), or equivalent, is required. Project Management Institute (PMI) certification is required for the PMP, but other programs of similar nature that are recognized and teach the same PMI principles may be acceptable

3

PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR(S)
Lead task teams and oversee personnel responsible for the design and planning of multi-modal ITS transportation facilities and projects. Lead the investigation of research questions both working with multi-discipline teams and must be able to work on project sites as required to be effective. Thoroughly familiar with Master's Degree in planning, engineering, and scientific fields Minimum of 15 years of experience in leading ITS multi-modal projects management and management responsibilities Project Management Institute (PMI) certification is required for the

2

multi-modal ITS concepts, practices, and procedures and have experience in all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Rely on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of tasks. Lead and direct the work of others. A wide degree of creativity and latitude is expected.

working with ITS programs in excess of $50 million. Program Management Professional (PMP), or equivalent, is desired but not required.

PMP, but other programs of similar nature that are recognized and teach the same PMI principles may be acceptable

4

SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER(S)
Responsible for advising client management and staff on all aspects of multi-modal ITS system engineering. Must be thoroughly knowledgeable of the National ITS Architecture. Provide expert advice, consultation and assistance and apply such expertise to the planning, testing, and deployment evaluation of multi-modal ITS systems engineering projects. Formulate guidance, standard operating and regulatory procedures and practices. Provide full analysis of systems engineering aspects of multi-modal ITS programs and support such efforts with automated tools and implementation of various analysis techniques. Monitor the usage of these products and make revisions as needed. Formulate plans and necessary programs for informing and training multi-modal ITS stakeholders in systems engineering methods, practices, techniques, and tools. Must have strong technical writing and presentation capabilities and skills. Master's degree in engineering and scientific areas Minimum of 15 years of experience. Must have general experience in all stages of the multi-modal ITS system life cycle The requirement for a Master's degree may be waived if the individual has 20 years experience in the ITS field, or related field

5

MID-LEVEL SYSTEMS ENGINEER(S)
Responsible for supporting and advising client management and staff on all aspects of multi-modal ITS system engineering. Must be thoroughly knowledgeable of the National ITS Architecture. Provide expert advice, consultation, and assistance and apply such expertise to the planning, testing, and deployment evaluation of multi-modal ITS systems engineering projects. Formulate guidance, standard operating and regulatory procedures and practices. Provide full analysis of systems engineering aspects of multi-modal ITS programs and support such efforts with automated tools and implementation of various analysis techniques. Monitor the usage of these products and make revisions as needed. Formulate plans and necessary programs for informing and training multi-modal ITS stakeholders in systems Bachelors degree in engineering or scientific areas Minimum of 10 years experience. Must have general experience in all stages of the multi-modal ITS system life cycle The requirement for a Bachelor's degree may be waived if the individual has 15 years experience in the ITS field, or related field

3

engineering methods, practices, techniques, and tools.

6

SENIOR TRANSPORTATION PLANNER/ENGINEER/SCIENTIST(S)
Manage, prepare, and actively participate on multi-modal ITS transportation projects. A thorough understanding of the principals, theory, and practice of multi-modal ITS transportation planning is required. Individuals must have experience in all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Responsibilities include knowledge of studies in traffic engineering, corridor studies, weather and environmental impact assessment, and travel demand analysis. Knowledge of traffic capacity software, traffic analytical tools, traffic signals, travel demand modeling, GIS & traffic microsimulation models are also important. Develop concept of operations and plans for multi-modal ITS surface transportation projects according to established engineering standards and state or federal construction policy. Prepare multi-modal ITS plans, estimates, and specifications for all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Knowledge of traffic management center development, various communications technologies important to ITS development, as well as vehicle aspects of ITS development, is necessary. Should have experience to address right-of-way and utility issues in the development of ITS systems. Perform field engineering calculations to compensate for change orders and contract estimates. Excellent writing and oral presentation skills are required. Master's in planning, engineering, or scientific areas Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects. At least 10 of those years must be working with multimodal ITS transportation projects. Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation may be waived if the individual has 10 years of multimodal ITS transportation project experience.

7

MID-LEVEL TRANSPORTATION PLANNER/ENGINEER/SCIENTIST(S)
Prepare and participate as a major contributor to multi-modal ITS transportation projects. A general understanding of the principals, theory and practice of multi-modal ITS transportation planning is required. Individuals must have experience in different phases of the ITS life-cycle. Responsibilities include knowledge of studies in traffic engineering, corridor studies, weather and environmental impact assessment, and travel demand analysis. Knowledge of traffic capacity software, traffic analytical tools, traffic signals, travel demand modeling, GIS & traffic micro-simulation models are also important. Develop concept of operations and plans for multi-modal ITS surface transportation projects according to established engineering standards and state or federal construction Master's in planning, engineering, or scientific areas Minimum of 10 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects. At least 5 of those years must be working with multimodal ITS transportation projects Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 5 years of experience

4

policy. Prepare multi-modal ITS plans, estimates, and specifications for all phases for the ITS life-cycle. Knowledge of traffic management center development, various communications technologies important to ITS development, as well as vehicle aspects of ITS development, is necessary. Should have experience to address right-of-way and utility issues in the development of ITS systems. Perform field engineering calculations to compensate for change orders and contract estimates. Good writing and oral presentation skills are required.

in multi-modal ITS transportation may be waived if the individual has 15 years of total experience in transportation field.

8

SENIOR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION PLANNER/ENGINEER/SCIENTIST(S)
Manage, prepare, and actively participate on multi-modal ITS public transportation projects. A thorough understanding of the principals, theory and practice of multi-modal ITS public transportation planning is required. Individuals must have experience in all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Should have worked with ITS programs related to motor carriers, public transit (both bus and rail), freight rail carriers, freight ship carrier and other related surface public transportation modes. Responsibilities include knowledge of studies in public transportation and traffic engineering, corridor studies, weather and environmental impact assessment, and travel demand analysis. Knowledge of traffic capacity software, traffic analytical tools, traffic signals, travel demand modeling, GIS & traffic micro-simulation models are also important. Develop concept of operations and plans for multimodal ITS surface public transportation projects according to established engineering standards and state or federal construction policy. Prepare multi-modal ITS public transportation plans, estimates, and specifications for all phases for the ITS life-cycle. Knowledge of traffic management center development, various communications technologies important to ITS public transportation development, as well as vehicle aspects of ITS development, is necessary. Should have experience to address right-of-way and utility issues in the development of ITS systems. Perform field engineering calculations to compensate for change orders and contract estimates. Excellent writing and oral presentation skills are required. Master's in planning, engineering, or scientific areas Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects. At least 10 of those years must be working with multimodal ITS public transportation projects. Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal public transportation projects.

Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation may be waived if the individual has 10 years of multimodal ITS public transportation project experience.

5

9

MID-LEVEL PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION PLANNER/ENGINEER/SCIENTIST(S)
Prepare and participate as a major contributor on multi-modal ITS public transportation projects. A thorough understanding of the principals, theory, and practice of multi-modal ITS public transportation planning is required. Individuals must have experience in all phases of the ITS life-cycle. Should have worked with ITS programs related to motor carriers, public transit (both bus and rail), freight rail carriers, freight ship carrier and other related surface public transportation modes. Responsibilities include knowledge of studies in public transportation and traffic engineering, corridor studies, weather and environmental impact assessment, and travel demand analysis. Knowledge of traffic capacity software, traffic analytical tools, traffic signals, travel demand modeling, GIS & traffic micro-simulation models are also important. Develop concept of operations and plans for multimodal ITS surface public transportation projects according to established engineering standards and state or federal construction policy. Prepare multi-modal ITS public transportation plans, estimates, and specifications for all phases for the ITS life-cycle. Knowledge of traffic management center development, various communications technologies important to ITS public transportation development, as well as vehicle aspects of ITS development, is necessary. Should have experience to address right-of-way and utility issues in the development of ITS systems. Perform field engineering calculations to compensate for change orders and contract estimates. Good writing and oral presentation skills are required. Master's in planning, engineering, or scientific areas Minimum of 10 years of experience in multi-modal public transportation projects. At least 5 of those years must be working with multi-modal ITS public transportation projects Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal public transportation projects.

Minimum of 10 years of experience in multi-modal public transportation may be waived if the individual has 15 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

10

SENIOR LEGAL COUNSEL
Senior legal counsel with extensive transportation policy, regulatory, and standards experience in the ITS field. Must be able to work on issues of national concern as well as issues of an international nature. Provides overall guidance to a staff and/or the technical team and ITS JPO management. Gather evidence and information for management decision making. Prepare legal analysis to inform program management on technical matters that may be affected by current or pending federal or state statutes or court cases. Must have experience in intellectual property and copyrights or registration of the organization's products, processes, Jurist Doctorate and Passed the Bar Minimum of 15 years of experience in the transportation industry with at least 5 years of ITS experience Minimum of 5 years experience may be waived if the individual has 25 years experience in the transportation industry

6

devices, and trademarks, providing analysis concerning liability and legal risks. Must have excellent presentation and written skills.

11

MID-LEVEL LEGAL COUNSEL
Experienced legal counsel with transportation policy, regulatory, and standards experience in the ITS field. Must be able to work on issues of national concern as well as issues of an international nature. Provides overall analysis to a staff and/or the technical team and ITS JPO management. Gather evidence and prepare legal analysis for management decision making. Must have experience in intellectual property and copyrights or registration of the organization's products, processes, devices, and trademarks, advising whether to initiate or defend law suits or other legal actions. Must have strong presentation and written skills. Jurist Doctorate and Passed the Bar Minimum of 10 years of experience in the transportation industry with at least 3 years of ITS experience Minimum of 3 years of experience in the ITS field may be waived if the individual has 15 years experience in the transportation industry

12

JUNIOR LEGAL COUNSEL
Under supervision, legal counsel with transportation policy, regulatory, and standards experience in the ITS field. Must be able to work on issues of national concern as well as issues of an international nature. Provide overall support to staff and/or the technical team and ITS JPO management. Gather evidence and prepare analysis for management decision making. Examine products and materials for legal implications, provide analysis to officials of proposed legislation that might affect the organization. Must have experience in intellectual property and copyrights or registration of the organization's products, processes, devices, and trademarks. Must have good presentation and written skills. Jurist Doctorate and Passed the Bar Minimum of 5 years of experience in the transportation industry with at least 3 years of ITS experience

13

SENIOR FREIGHT AND TRANSPORTATION LOGISTICIAN(S)
Senior person with extensive experience in freight transportation and transportation logistics for multi-modal surface transportation projects. Must be able to provide technical assistance on all aspects of freight and transportation logistics issues for all different types of surface transportation modes. Provide consulting services in reviewing proposals, developing performance specifications, and serving as liaison between different parties and organizations. Review logistics performance measures against targets, benchmark, and assist in developing and monitoring Master's in planning, engineering, logistics or scientific areas Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects. At least 10 of those years must be working with multimodal freight ITS transportation projects. Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal freight transportation projects.

7

service agreements. Support the development of training materials and technical manuals. Perform system life-cycle cost analysis, and develop component studies. Plan, organize, and execute logistics support activities such as maintenance planning, repair analysis, and test equipment recommendations. Excellent presentation and written skills are required.

Minimum of 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation may be waived if the individual has 10 years of multimodal ITS freight transportation project experience.

14

MID-LEVEL FREIGHT AND TRANSPORTATION LOGISTICIAN(S)
Experienced person with strong experience in freight transportation and transportation logistics for multi-modal surface transportation projects. Must be able to provide technical assistance on all aspects of freight and transportation logistics issues for all different types of surface transportation modes. Provide consulting services in reviewing proposals, developing performance specifications, and serving as liaison between different parties and organizations. Review logistics performance measures against targets, benchmark, and assist in developing and monitoring service agreements. Support the development of training materials and technical manuals. Perform system lifecycle cost analysis, and develop component studies. Plan, organize, and execute logistics support activities such as maintenance planning, repair analysis, and test equipment recommendations. Strong presentation and written skills are required. Master's in planning, engineering, logistics or scientific areas Minimum of 10 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects. At least 5 of those years must be working with multimodal ITS freight transportation projects Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal freight transportation projects.

Minimum of 5 years of ITS experience in multi-modal freight transportation may be waived if the individual has 15 years of multimodal freight transportation project experience.

15

SENIOR ECONOMIST(S)

8

Senior level person who is thoroughly knowledgeable of economic analysis, business case studies and benefit/cost analysis in the ITS multi-modal transportation field. Must be knowledgeable of a wide range of analysis techniques and be able to work collaboratively with project teams to effectively gather data, come to consensus on analysis techniques, and communicate the results in a manner that the highest of credibility is maintained. Must be familiar with the wide range of transportation models available for such efforts and have experience in utilizing these models on past multi-modal transportation projects. Provide economic data, prepare interpretative reports, and provide leadership for determining investment decisions for different research programs being considered. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Communicate the results of economic studies to the stakeholders and help establish procedures and guidelines for evaluating regulatory decisions, benefit-cost analysis, etc. Understand the macro and micro economic environment and its impact on the industry. Rely on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of tasks. May provide consultation on complex projects and is considered to be the top level contributor/specialist. Must have excellent presentation and written skills.

Ph.D in economics or related field of specialty

A minimum of 15 years of experience in the transportation industry. At least 10 years must be working with ITS multimodal projects

Ph.D degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 10 years of experience in ITS multi-modal transportation projects may be waived if the individual has 15 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

16

MID-LEVEL ECONOMIST(S)
Conduct research and analysis on economic data/trends and provide interpretation. Organize data into report format and arrange graphic illustrations of research findings. Interpret economic conditions and advise management on business implications. Rely on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Master's degree in economics or related field of specialty A minimum of 10 years of experience in the transportation industry. At least 5 years must be working with ITS multimodal projects Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 5 years of experience in ITS multi-modal transportation projects may be waived if the

9

individual has 15 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

17

SENIOR LEGISLATIVE/POLICY ANALYST(S)
Senior personnel who have extensive legislative and policy analysis experience in the surface transportation industry. Must be able to address funding, governance, regulatory, and standards issues Must have worked with federal , state, and local government issues as well as public-private partnerships in the transportation industry. Must have experience in working on issues of national and international importance. Must have addressed issues from research planning, testing, and demonstrations, as well as deployment phases of ITS projects. Strong skills in addressing both strategic issues and tactical issues are desired. Must be able to quickly and accurately assess the feasibility of recommendations and help shape actions required by the ITS JPO to achieve its goals in partnership with state government, local government as well as the private sector. Excellent presentation and written skills are required. Master's in political science, business administration, engineering, planning, or other related social science degree Minimum of 15 years of experience in legislative and policy issues in the multimodal transportation field. A minimum of 10 years of relevant experience in the multi-modal ITS field is required. Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 10 years of experience in ITS multi-modal ITS field may be waived if the individual has 15 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

18

MID-LEVEL LEGISLATIVE/POLICY ANALYST(S)
Personnel who have strong legislative and policy analysis experience in the surface transportation industry. Must be able to address funding, governance, regulatory, and standards issues Must have worked with federal , state and local government issues as well as public-private partnerships in the transportation industry. Must have experience in working on issues of national and international importance. Must have addressed issues from research planning, testing and demonstrations, as well as deployment phases of ITS projects. Master's in political science, business administration, engineering, planning, or other related social science degree A minimum of 10 years of legislative/policy experience in the transportation industry. At least 5 years must be working with ITS multi-modal projects Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

10

Strong skills in addressing both strategic issues and tactical issues are desired. Must be able to assess the feasibility of recommendations and help shape actions required by the ITS JPO to achieve its goals in partnership with state government, local government as well as the private sector. Excellent presentation and written skills are required. Must have the ability to monitor and analyze federal legislation and regulations in policy areas assigned. Prepare information for Congress and the U.S. DOT related to ITS considerations. Conduct federal and state policy research and analysis. Prepare informational materials and policy briefs. Provide communication and working relations with affiliate members on federal and state issues. Strong written and communications skills essential.

Minimum of 5 years of experience in ITS multi-modal transportation projects may be waived if the individual has 20 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

19

SENIOR STATISTICIAN/DATA ANALYST(S)
Senior personnel with extensive experience with data collection, data analysis, and data modeling experience in the multi-modal transportation industry. Must have a demonstrated ability to independently learn and apply theoretical material in statistics and data mining to solve real-world business problems. Includes data discovery, gathering, and exploration, process definition, research into current industry trends, and internal benchmarking. Based upon the information gathered, develop strategic and operational predictive models and ensure the rationale behind the prediction is clearly communicated to senior management. Work closely with stakeholders, business analysts, and application development project teams in order to resolve information flow and content/format issues. Develop database and warehousing designs across multiple platforms and computing environments. Excellent written and communications skills essential. Master's degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics, and Economics or other technical field Minimum of 15 years of experience in statistical and data analysis in the multimodal transportation field. A minimum of 10 years of relevant experience in the multi-modal ITS field is required. Master's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 20 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 10 years of experience in ITS multi-modal field may be waived if the individual has 15 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

11

20

MID-LEVEL STATISTICIAN/DATA ANALYST(S)
Personnel with strong experience with data collection, data analysis, and data modeling experience in the multi-modal transportation industry. Must have a demonstrated ability to independently learn and apply theoretical material in statistics and data mining to solve real-world business problems. Includes data discovery, gathering, and exploration, process definition, research into current industry trends, and internal benchmarking. Interpret analytical information based on client data and master database to correctly register, synchronize, and if necessary, code supply item data. Must have the ability to understand contract language (tier levels, distribution mark ups, familiar with authorized distribution channels). Provide detailed analysis based upon the information gathered, develop strategic and operational predictive models and ensure the rationale behind the prediction is clearly communicated to senior management. Work closely with stakeholders, business analysts, and application development project teams in order to resolve information flow and content/format issues. Develop database and warehousing designs across multiple platforms and computing environments. Strong written and communications skills essential. Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics, and Economics or other technical field Minimum of 10 years of experience in statistical and data analysis in the multimodal transportation field. A minimum of 5 years of relevant experience in the multi-modal ITS field is required. Bachelor's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 15 years of experience in multi-modal transportation projects.

Minimum of 5 years of experience in multi-modal ITS field may be waived if the individual has 10 years of multimodal transportation project experience.

21

MID-LEVEL PROFESSIONAL/TECHNICAL STAFF
Review, analyze, and evaluate multi-modal transportation systems from a variety of aspects. Knowledge of commonly used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Create and develop instructions and guidelines to perform the functions of the job. Work under immediate supervision. Bachelor's degree in math, engineering, social sciences and computer sciences Minimum of 5 years of experience Bachelor's degree requirement may be waived if the individual has 10 years of experience in the transportation field

22

JUNIOR LEVEL STAFF
Provide administrative support to team. Review, research, write, and respond to correspondence both written and orally. Provide timely resolutions to administrative issues. Track and monitor Associate's degree Minimum of 3 years of experience Bachelor's degree requirement may be waived if the

12

technical projects. May be involved in technical work and should have an understanding of transportation issues. Have knowledge of commonly used concepts, practices and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job.

individual has 10 years of experience in the transportation field

23

RESEARCHERS/TECHNICAL WRITER(S)
Research and analysis of data and program in support of the various aspects of the ITS JPO programs. Ability to translate technical data and work done in programs to simple, concise, and meaningful communications for stakeholders internal and external to DOT. Ability to write a variety of technical articles, reports, brochures, and/or manuals for documentation for a wide range of uses. May be responsible for coordinating the display of graphics and the production of the document. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Rely on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of tasks. Lead and direct the work of others. A wide degree of creativity and latitude is expected. Excellent analytical and written skills are required. Bachelor's degree in communications or social sciences or related specialty area Minimum of 5 years of experience in the research and communications fields Bachelor's degree requirement can be waived if the individual has 5 years of similar experience with ITS programs or 10 years of experience working in the research and communications fields.

24

IT COMPUTER SUPPORT
Computer support for setting up computer models or web sites for research efforts or communications programs. Provide support to end users on a variety of issues. Identify, research, and resolve technical problems. Have knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within the transportation field. Bachelor's degree in computer science or experience with specialized training for related ITS software and equipment. Minimum of 5 years of experience in computer support for research activities, modeling, web development activities, etc. Bachelor's degree requirement can be waived if the individual has 10 years of experience with ITS programs or 10 years of experience in working in the research and communications fields.

25

COMMUNICATIONS and WEB TECHNOLOGY
Communications expertise in all aspects of messaging and branding related to major programs. Also, communications and Bachelor's degree in communications and Minimum of 5 years of experience in the Bachelor's degree can be waived if

13

outreach programs design and implementation experience is required for this position. Design, configure, and maintain websites for internal and external communications, based on strategies and goals of the project. Must be knowledgeable of web social networking tools and how to use effectively such tools in communications programs. Ensure that branding and configuration requirements are applied to all web products. Proficient in the design and development of HTML/SHTML documents compliant with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, with an understanding and familiarity of E-Business practices, JAVA, Perl, and FrontPage extensions. Work under general supervision. A great deal of creativity and latitude is expected.

related web technology areas.

communications and web technology fields.

the individual has 10 years of experience in the communications/gr aphics/web technology areas

26

FINANCIAL PLANNER/ANALYST
Prepare financial and business related analysis and research in such areas as financial and expense performance, rate of return, depreciation, working capital, and investments. Prepare forecasts and analyze trends in a variety of areas. Utilize computer software and systems to compile and prepare reports, graphs, charts, and data. Assist in the development of business policies, conduct special financial and business related studies, and cooperate with other departments in the preparation of analysis. Bachelor's degree in finance and economics Minimum of 5 years of experience in the transportation industry Bachelor's degree can be waived if the individual has 10 years of experience in the finance and economic fields

27

BUSINESS PLANNING/BUSINESS MODELING
Review, analyze, and evaluate business systems and user needs. Document requirements, define scope and objectives, and formulate systems to parallel overall business strategies. Rely on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of complicated tasks. May lead and direct the work of others. A wide degree of creativity and latitude is expected. Bachelor's degree in business administration or computer science Minimum of 5 years of experience in the transportation industry Bachelor's degree can be waived if the individual has 10 years of experience in the business planning or business modeling area

28

GRAPHICS DESIGNER
Generate and manipulate graphic images, animations, sound, and text to be included in a variety of media, including web applications. Use knowledge of current graphic design software to Bachelor's degree in graphic design and communications related Minimum of 5 years of experience in the communications and web Bachelor's degree can be waived if the individual has

14

produce graphic art and visual materials for documents, presentations, and web pages for client. Must remain abreast of technological advances in the field and be able to identify areas of use in the organization. Rely on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of tasks.

web technology areas.

technology fields.

10 years of experience in the communications/gr aphics/web technology areas

29

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
Perform a variety of administrative functions. Compose memos, transcribe notes, and print and assemble presentations. Generate reports, handle multiple projects, and prepare and monitor invoices and expense reports. Provide production and general administration support. May assist with compiling and developing the annual budget. Rely on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Perform a variety of complicated tasks. May direct and lead the work of others. A wide degree of creativity and latitude is expected. High school diploma A minimum of 5 years of experience in the transportation field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures.

15

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

1.THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

RATING

PAGE

of

PAGES

2. CONTRACT NO.

3. SOLICITATION NO.

DTFH61-10-R-00019
7. ISSUED BY CODE:

4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED  SEALED BID (IFB) 7/13/2010

1 106 6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

21-21-10071

NEGOTIATED (RFP) x  8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7) HAAM-30

Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE, Mail Stop E65-101 Washington, DC 20590
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitation "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder". SOLICITATION 9. Sealed offers in original and 14 (total = 15) for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 7 until 4:15 pm Washington, D.C. Time August 27, 2010. CAUTION - LATE Submission, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. 10. A. NAME B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) C. E-MAIL ADDRESS FOR INFORMATION CALL: AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

Jennifer Johnson
DESCRIPTION PART I - THE SCHEDULE

202

366-0904

Jennifer.Johnson@dot.gov
DESCRIPTION PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES PAGE(S) 51-63 64 65-68

(X) SEC. X X X X X X X X

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE(S) (X) SEC. 1 2 3-31 32 32 32-34 34-43 44-50 X X X X X

A SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM B SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS C DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT D PACKAGING AND MARKING E INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE F DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE G CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA H SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

I CONTRACT CLAUSES J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS K REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS L INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS M EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

69-100 100-106

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror) NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT 10 Calendar Days (%) 20 Calendar Days (%) 30 Calendar Days (%) Calendar Days (%) PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated):

15A. 15B. TELEPHONE NO.

CODE

FACILITY

16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER 17. SIGNATURE 18. OFFER DATE

 15C.CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE

AREA CODE NUMBER

EXT. AWARD (To be completed by Government) 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY ITEM CODE

19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 23. ) )  10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (  41 U.S.C. 253(c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) CODE 25.

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (Signature of Contracting Officer)

28. AWARD

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR {48 CFR} 53.214(c)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 2 of 106

SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS The Contractor shall furnish all the necessary facilities, materials, and personnel and shall perform technical non-personal services and program support necessary under this contract entitled Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Technical Support Services. Such services and program support shall be rendered to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) through the issuance of cost-plus-fixed-fee and firm-fixed-price task orders under this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract. The total estimated amount for the performance of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract (Base Period, plus four option years) is $ . That amount consists of an estimated total aggregate cost of $ , and an estimated total aggregate fee of $ . The estimated amount for the performance of the Base Period (one year) of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract is $ . That amount consists of an estimated aggregate cost of $ , plus an estimated aggregate fee of $ for such task order(s). The estimated amount for the performance of the First Option Year of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract is $ . That amount consists of an estimated aggregate cost of $ and an estimated aggregate fee of $ for such task order(s). The estimated amount for the performance of the Second Option Year of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract is $ . That amount consists of an estimated aggregate cost of $ , and an estimated aggregate fee of $ for such task order(s). The estimated amount for the performance of the Third Option Year of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract is $ . That amount consists of an estimated aggregate cost of $ , and an estimated aggregate fee of $ for such task order(s). The estimated amount for the performance of the Fourth Option Year of this indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract is $ . That amount consists of an estimated aggregate cost of $ , and an estimated aggregate fee of $ for such task order(s). All travel shall be reimbursed at cost in accordance with the travel and per diem clause (reference Section G). The un-loaded cost of travel and per diem shall not exceed $1,000,000.00 per year. These amounts are included in the total contract value as stated above.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 3 of 106

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT C.1 BACKGROUND

The Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Joint Program Office (JPO) is charged with the planning and execution of the ITS Program as authorized by Congress in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU, P.L. 109-59). This program encompasses a broad range of technologies that are applied to the surface transportation system. The ITS JPO coordinates with and executes the program in cooperation with the surface modal administrations within the Department of Transportation, such as: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Federal Transit Administration (FTA), National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), et al. The ITS JPO administers the approximately $100+ million annual budget for ITS Research and Development, which includes related supporting activities. To manage this program, the JPO has a staff of 12 program managers, each having multiple responsibilities working across the various transportation modes developing applications of ITS technology that will be deployed across the nation. There are currently over 70 projects, or areas of work, being managed by the ITS JPO staff. The ITS JPO has utilized contractors to assist and be an extension of staff to handle the large workload required in the ITS JPO office over the years. Since the mid-1990s the ITS JPO has utilized contactor support for the ITS JPO staff. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) ITS Engineering Support Services contract was competitively awarded in 2005, and is due to expire on August 31, 2010. The new ITS JPO Technical Support Services Contract (ITS TSSC) will be competed to allow a continuation of the broad range of services needed to support the ITS JPO in the conduct of the ITS Program. Task Orders under this contract will provide a wide spectrum of related services for the US DOT, FHWA, NHTSA, FMCSA, FTA, and other Federal Agencies. The contractor(s) will be expected to provide a broad range of competencies that complement the capabilities of ITS JPO staff, U.S. DOT staff, and other contractors to deliver the complex ITS Program. Proximity to the ITS JPO offices and the ability to provide highly qualified technical personnel expertise will be critical factors for selecting the contractor(s) that will perform this work. C.2 INCUMBENT CONTRACT The subject work is being performed under the following active IDIQ contract, which is scheduled to end on August 31, 2010. ˇ DTFH61-05-D-00002 Noblis, Inc.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 4 of 106

C.3

CONTRACT OBJECTIVES

This contract will provide a broad range of capabilities that are essential for complementing the technical capabilities of federal staff who are the leaders of the ITS Program and other Transportation programs. This contract will provide specific services and supplies, on a task order basis, as deemed necessary to support the ITS JPO staff , other agencies within the DOT, and other Federal agencies working with the DOT. C.4 SCOPE

The Contractor shall provide technical assistance, subject matter expertise, services and supplies to assist in delivering the ITS Program. The Contractor and subcontractors shall support the coordination of technical content delivery among Transportation Programs and shall advise JPO and other federal staff on Program technical matters. The Contractor shall represent and advise, but not shape, Federal program interests in technical and policy matters. The contractor is expected to deliver support in three (3) major competencies: Technical Competencies: Experience, knowledge, proficiency, and/or skills related to a specific technology or technical area. Examples of technical competencies may include broad knowledge of computer networks, or specific experience working with vehicle On-Board Equipment (OBE). Functional Competencies: Experience, knowledge, proficiency, and/or skill needed to perform a particular type of work activity (function). Functional competencies are related to expertise in a given function and are not necessarily tied to a given situation, i.e., they are competencies which are transferable to different situations. Examples of functional competencies may include program management, training, facilitation, strategic planning, business planning, etc. Situational Competencies: Experience working in or working with a specific industry, organization, program/project, or group. Examples of situational competencies may include experience in the automotive industry or experience working on the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP), etc. Within each of these three major competencies are more specific supporting competencies and/or activities that focus on providing technical support to the JPO and other Modal Administration Project Managers in the execution of their programs. These supporting competencies and activities will be discussed in more detail in section C.5 ­ Delineation of Task Areas below, but broadly include activities such as (but not limited to): ˇ Technical support in the development of Statements of Work (SOWs) and specifications for research activities ˇ Technical evaluation of proposals submitted to execute the projects ˇ Addressing critical technical issues in the development of ITS research programs

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 5 of 106

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Monitoring the technical aspects of contractor performance in the execution of projects Technical evaluation of contractor's work products resulting from these projects Technical inputs and/or analysis that is required to develop a project plan prior to open solicitations for the project Providing technical recommendations and subject matter expertise on the state of the art in certain ITS technologies

In addition to providing support in the competencies described above, the contractor and subcontractors shall provide program management for their responsibilities under this contract, including start-up and transition activities. The program management, start-up, and transition activities are detailed in 1.4 in section C.5 ­ Delineation of Task Areas, but broadly include activities such as (but not limited to): ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ C.5 Contract and task order management Task order process management Work plan development and maintenance Progress / status reporting Risk monitoring Project kick-off Start-up plan development Transition plan development Task order and work product transition (from incumbent contractor) DELINEATION OF TASK AREAS

The following competency and activity descriptions define the broad work areas anticipated under the contract. Although some reflect areas of continuing activity, many are short term and will change with the activity of the various Transportation programs. NOTE: Offerors' proposals must demonstrate their team's experience and capabilities to perform Task Orders under ALL potential Task Areas listed below. The Government is not requesting proposals for individual Task Areas. Rather, it intends to award contracts which will require that the Contractor team (inclusive of subcontractors) have the capability to provide services under ALL Task Areas listed below. 1.1. Technical Competencies The contractor will provide the ITS JPO and other DOT organizations technical assistance and support for the foundational elements of the ITS strategic plans, research and operations. The support activities will include technical and technical policy analyses, and technical contributions to task forces, consortia, and working groups, supporting ITS advanced vehicle-highway safety, mobility, environment, and policy considerations.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 6 of 106

The contractor will assess the technical relevancy of efforts in other DOT and other government agencies to the research efforts. Conduct analyses focused on specific technical areas, and contribute to inter-office, -divisional, -agency, and -departmental efforts to enhance the benefits from and to transportation-related programs. The contractor's and subcontractors' expertise must span the breadth of ITS to encompass the current needs of deploying agencies, while also providing targeted expertise to address the emerging needs of the Department of Transportation in its research efforts. The breadth of ITS is depicted through the National ITS Architecture, version 6.1, and can be described according to user needs: ˇ Travel and Traffic Management o Pre-trip Travel Information o En-route Driver Information o Route Guidance o Ride Matching and Reservation o Traveler Services Information o Traffic Control o Incident Management o Travel Demand Management o Emissions Testing and Mitigation o Highway Rail Intersection Public Transportation Management o Public Transportation Management o En-route Transit Information o Personalized Public Transit o Public Travel Security Electronic Payment o Electronic Payment Services Commercial Vehicle Operations o Commercial Vehicle Electronic Clearance o Automated Roadside Safety Inspection o On-board Safety and Security Monitoring o Commercial Vehicle Administrative Processes o Hazardous Materials Security and Incident Response o Freight Mobility Emergency Management o Emergency Notification and Personal Security o Emergency Vehicle Management o Disaster Response and Evacuation Advanced Vehicle Safety Systems o Longitudinal Collision Avoidance o Lateral Collision Avoidance o Intersection Collision Avoidance o Vision Enhancement for Crash Avoidance o Safety Readiness

ˇ

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 7 of 106

ˇ ˇ

o Pre-crash Restraint Deployment o Automated Vehicle Operation Information Management o Archived Data Maintenance And Construction Management o Maintenance and Construction Operations 1.1.1. Multi-Modal Technical Assistance

The contractor shall provide Multi-Modal Technical Assistance to the ITS Joint Program Office, its Modal Administration partners through the Department of Transportation, and its stakeholders in the public, private, and academic sectors. This support encompasses the technical support for pursuing ITS and Transportation research and development that contributes towards deployment. 1.1.1.1. Comprehensive Technical Support to the ITS Program The contractor shall provide continual technical assessment, evaluation of issues, technical assistance and analysis that support the execution of the ITS and other Transportation Programs. In the area of training, the contractor may be asked to provide specific training and knowledge building in understanding the technical issues impacting the strategic plan activities. This training may be in the form of general topic briefings, subject specific briefings, webinars, and/or white papers. Specific technical assistance activities will be identified continually through the life cycle of the Program research activities listed below. These assistance activities will involve a range of competencies including, but not limited to, systems engineering, subject matter research and analysis, architecture analysis, economic and econometric analysis, design and implementation issues, training, etc. The ITS Strategic Plan has identified the following as the body of research that will be targeted by the ITS Program during the life of this contract: ˇ Multi-Modal Research ­ Applications o IntelliDriveSM Vehicle to Infrastructure Communications for Safety  To accelerate the implementation of the next generation of safety improvements through deployment of a nationwide suite of V2I equipped vehicles in all categories capable of communicating effectively with relevant infrastructure systems o IntelliDriveSM Vehicle to Vehicle Communications for Safety  To accelerate the implementation of next generation of safety improvements through the widespread deployment of V2V equipped vehicles of all types o Real-Time Data Capture & Management  To accelerate the implementation of the next generation of transportation system improvements by providing real-time, multi-

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 8 of 106

ˇ

ˇ

modal information in all 50 states that will improve energy conservation, traveler information, safety, and reduce congestion. o Dynamic Mobility Applications  To improve transportation mobility by providing travelers and transportation system operators with real-time, dynamic, decisionmaking capabilities through access to a nationwide suite of applications based on improved collection and processing of real ­ time data, supplemented by improved communications between vehicles and infrastructure. o Road Weather Management  To facilitate and improve the value of road weather information provided by both public and private sector weather communities to all transportation users and operators through robust data assimilation, quality checking and effective dissemination. o Applications for the Environment: Real-Time Information Synthesis (AERIS)  To generate/acquire environmentally-relevant real-time transportation data, use this data to create actionable information to support and facilitate "green" transportation choices, and assist system users and operators with "green" transportation alternatives or options. Multi-Modal Research ­ Technology o Human Factors for IntelliDriveSM  To eliminate distractions related to IntelliDriveSM devices as a contributing factor to crashes. Achieve this by evaluating driver distraction issues while leveraging the convergent findings of epidemiological studies, experimental studies, and analyses of crash data o IntelliDriveSM Test Environment  Create a common resource for public and private sector multimodal testing o Harmonization of International Standards and Architecture  Develop internationally harmonized standards, particularly around vehicle-based applications o IntelliDriveSM Certification  Establish a technology & application certification approach, particularly for active safety applications o IntelliDriveSM Systems Engineering  This revised baseline architecture and requirements will serve as the technical foundation for the next generation of IntelliDriveSM field tests, for initial and ongoing deployments of IntelliDriveSM, and for continued research as the core technologies and program evolve Multi-Modal Research ­ Policy o IntelliDriveSM Policy

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 9 of 106

ˇ

ˇ

This work area is intended to support and execute policy research activities related to the IntelliDriveSM program. A policy research plan and roadmap for the program is available at: http://www.intellidriveusa.org/research/policy-roadmap.php (this plan may be updated periodically, please check the website for updates). The plan is organized around five (5) research tracks: Deployment Scenarios and Implementation and Operations Strategies, Investment Models, Governance Structures, Institutional Issues, and Comparative Analysis and Reporting. This contract is anticipated to support work across all 5 tracks in cooperation with IntelliDriveSM stakeholders. However, not all work described in the research plan will be executed through this contract. Activities might include: - Supporting development of a deployment approach for DSRC 5.9GHz infrastructure - Supporting development of a viable financing strategy for funding implementation and operation of DSRC 5.9GHz infrastructure Mode Specific Research o FHWA - Active Traffic Management  To identify ATM benefits and operating criteria to allow agencies to truly, in real time, manipulate traffic flow, capacity and demand throughout the transportation network o FMCSA/FHWA - International Border Crossing E-screening  To determine the best technology/ITS solutions for a bi-national (US/Mexico) tolling and payment system that accommodates dynamic (variable) pricing at the border for congestion management and idle /emissions reduction  To identify if the successful deployment of a radio frequency identification (RFID) technology-based solution yields significant time savings and safety benefits in international border crossing regions o FMCSA/FHWA- Smart Roadside  To accelerate the development and integration of commercial vehicle applications into the suite of existing and planned USDOT IntelliDriveSM Vehicle-to-Infrastructure applications o FMCSA - CVISN Core and Expanded  To improve the safety and productivity of motor carriers and their drivers, and reduce regulatory and administrative costs for publicand private-sector stakeholders through improved data sharing, electronic credentialing, and targeted automated screening and targeted enforcement of high-risk carriers at the roadside Exploratory Research o Technology Options for Collecting User Fees  Study technology options, requirements & architectures to support range of policy options.



DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 10 of 106

ˇ

o Multi-Modal Integrated Payment System  Develop white paper to assess need for federal research to enable integrated multi-modal payment. o Exploratory Solicitation  Scan for new technologies & provide incentives for innovative applications. Other ITS Research o I-95 Corridor Coalition  To promote regional cooperation, planning, and shared project implementation for programs and projects to improve transportation system management and operations, as codified in Sec 5211 of SAFETEA-LU o Integrated Corridor Management  Provide guidance to assist agencies in implementing Integrated Corridor Operations, create supporting analysis tools, approaches, and technical standards, and demonstrate the value of Integrated Corridor Management o Mobility Services for All Americans (MSAA)  To improve transportation services and simplify access to employment, healthcare, education, and other community activities by means of the advanced technologies of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) and through extending transportation service partnerships with consumers and human service providers at the federal, State, and local levels 1.1.1.2.Technical Support for Independent Validation and Verification (IV&V) Efforts

This activity will develop information about the comprehensive value of ITS deployment through IV&V efforts that can be disseminated to public and private organizations. The aim for providing this information is to foster cost-effective deployment of ITS technologies in support of transportation problems. The activity requires identifying and collecting technical metrics, analyzing, and reporting program effectiveness information to support U.S. DOT programmatic and policy decisions; conduct outreach to ITS stakeholders; and develop responses to inquiries from the legislative and executive branches of the Federal Government. This activity will require continuous coordination with ITS JPO. The contractor shall possess an understanding of institutional issues associated with ITS deployment and integration projects. This activity may also include conducting independent crosscutting reviews of ITS projects and identification of technical issues surfaced during project implementation. Examples of specific areas of IV&V technical interest include, but are not limited to:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 11 of 106

ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Serve as the ITS JPO focal point for technical assessment of costs and benefits information. o Development and maintenance of the ITS Benefits and Costs Database, to include maintenance of a Web-based version accessible at www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov. o Ensure that ITS unit costs data are supplied to the ITS Deployment Analysis System (IDAS). o Develop the periodic ITS cost-related reports. o Conduct effectiveness analyses in terms of the U.S. DOT metrics used to measure impacts of ITS implementation in seven goal areas:  reductions in crashes;  improved throughput;  improved travel time reliability;  cost savings;  reduced emissions and fuel consumption;  improved overall customer satisfaction, and  Causal effects between deployed technologies and outcomes. Conduct technical assessments of performance measures including, inputs, outputs, outcomes, and measures of value added (such as benefit-cost or multicriteria indices) Develop periodic communication with project management teams to review ITS cost issues. Conduct research and analyses of ITS benefits identified in deployments outside the U.S. This activity requires an understanding of evaluation techniques employed in the European Union, Japan, Canada, and Latin America. Produce a biannual report reflecting a snapshot of the ITS benefits in the database, and presenting conclusions regarding the benefits (or dis-benefits) of ITS implementations. Perform periodic Web site utilization trends analyses. Participate in the design, development and maintenance of an ITS Lessons Learned Database. 1.1.1.3.Technical Assistance to DOT to provide assistance to other public agencies

This activity will provide technical assistance; documentation preparation and review; and analysis in response to requests from federal, state, or other public agencies on issues related to the development, deployment, and integration of ITS. The contractor will further ensure that any information and lessons learned from this activity is fully documented and captured to support subsequent technology transfer. The specific technical assistance activities will be identified as part of the initial assistance request and/or assessment. NOTE: in order to provide this assistance on-site visits may be required. Common activities related to this task area include:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 12 of 106

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ

Preparation and delivery of training sessions and/or workshops focusing on the state-of-the-practice/art in intelligent transportation systems/technologies; the impact on the implementation and operation of specific technologies; the application of federal regulations and requirements; and best practices and lessons learned relating to individual transportation and public agencies, regional and national organizations, industry groups, and/or topic specific working groups; Organization, support, and facilitation of workshops, working groups, and ad-hoc meetings/committees focused on obtaining peer-to-peer collaboration; analysis of best-practices; or identification and resolution of issues regarding specific ITS transportation topics; Initial assessment and evaluation of technical issues and technical assistance regarding specific ITS transportation topics. Data collection and analysis of information for the resolution of ITS deployment issues. This may include but is not limited to: monitoring specific projects, agencies, or regions concerning ITS transportation deployment, operation and impacts; carrying out cross-cutting scanning tours, surveys, and interviews on specific ITS transportation topics; development of syntheses of current practice and/or comparative analyses; Assistance in the analysis and decisions impacting ITS transportation projects. This may include but is not limited to the development of evaluation plans and performance measures, assistance regarding the collection of data and its analysis, assistance in the development of analysis tools and in conducting the evaluation, and preparation and maintenance of impact databases and summaries; Development and maintenance of databases, websites, application of social networking including web 2.0/ web 3.0 technologies or other mechanisms for industry collaboration and/or information dissemination; Preparation of technical assistance work plans for significant efforts as requested by the ITS JPO; or Preparation of trip reports, activity summaries, case studies, lessons-learned, white papers or guidance materials. 1.1.1.4.Professional Capacity Building (PCB)

Provide technical assistance to ITS efforts to enhance the knowledge and skills of transportation professionals in support of the deployment of ITS. The activity requires contractor technical support for key aspects of the ITS PCB Program. Specific assistance activities will be identified as part of initial assistance requests and/or assessments. The assistance may include subject matter research and analysis, support for training program design and implementation, support for evaluations of alternative delivery modes, etc. Examples of specific areas of interest include, but are not limited to, the technical aspects of: ˇ ˇ Collecting and analyzing information regarding curriculum topics of greatest need Identifying subject matter experts and helping to plan and coordinate curriculum development activities

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 13 of 106

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

In cooperation with DOT's University Transportation Center, identifying potential opportunities for partnering with universities to support the development of future generations of ITS professionals. Assisting in creating and coordinating mechanisms for peer-to-peer communications and learning Helping to identify and assemble information regarding best practices, lessons learned, and case studies from ITS and/or DOT databases to include in ITS training curricula Assisting in efforts to obtain recommendations from experts and input from potential users on ways to increase enrollment in web-based training and on preferred alternative learning modes. Undertaking other Professional Capacity Building technical support tasks as they arise. 1.1.2. Advanced Research Support

This activity will provide technical assistance and subject matter expertise in the identification of major technical problem areas and technical knowledge gaps that interfere with achieving ITS strategic goals and to identify the advanced technologies/materials/analytical methods that could be explored to produce breakthrough results in ITS research. These activities will involve a range of competencies including, but not limited to: ˇ Technical Subject Matter Expertise (SME) in the areas of technology, transportation, traffic management, road/weather management, operational meteorology, the environment, ITS standards, telecommunications, data exchange, automotive safety, automotive electronics, crash analysis (data), and human factors ˇ Addressing evolving trends in transportation technology ˇ Technology roadmaps and adoption analysis The specific technical assistance activities will be identified as part of the initial assistance request and/or assessment. These assistance activities may involve technical support in: ˇ Strategic Planning: Assist the ITS programs in technology aspects of developing, updating, and disseminating mid- to long-term plans and actions that enable ITS to achieve its advanced research program objectives. The contractor will assist in the Strategic Planning cycle including contributing to the organization and conduct of workshops and seminars designed to identify mid- to long-term plans and actions directed at breakthroughs towards resolving the defined research problems. Technical Assessments: When the appropriate technology or expertise is not available within ITS, the contractor will provide technical and process (e.g., cost/benefit analysis) assessments of alternative or competing technologies. The

ˇ

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 14 of 106

ˇ

ˇ

contractor will provide specialist experienced input from staff, or when appropriate by subcontract, with ITS JPO concurrence including: o Identifying, acquiring, and developing processes to assess the technical merits, cost, and operational effectiveness of new, alternative, or competing methods and technologies. o Applying technology assessment to proposed or in-progress efforts so that alternative or competing technologies can be equitably evaluated and compared. o Identifying, acquiring, and, as necessary, developing processes to assess the technical merits, cost, and operational effectiveness of technology proposals and products. Technology Roadmaps: Developing technical and program roadmaps to the desired end state by identifying available technology, technology opportunities, and technology challenges to be addressed in the multi-year mode and multimodal programs. The technology roadmap provides the basis for soliciting and evaluating proposals and judging progress toward program objectives. The contractor will assist in developing the technical aspects of Advanced Research Plans and Technology Roadmaps including contributing to the organization and conduct of research problem definition, review panels, and research program presentations or Program Proposal roadmaps. Concepts of Operation: Assist the ITS programs in developing, updating, and disseminating Concept of Operations that define the desired characteristics of proposed systems/technologies and the set of capabilities which may be employed to achieve desired objectives. 1.1.3. Support and Assistance for ITS Technical Tools

This activity will provide technical support and assistance in the application of tools, modeling activities, computer aided instruction (CAI) training and support efforts, simulation, and the analysis of potential new technical tools associated with the ITS program. The support and assistance activities will include technical analyses and technical contributions to ITS Program. Some examples of specific areas of interest include, but are not limited to the technical aspects of: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Conducting technical analyses of specific analytical tools and modeling activities, computer aided instructional technology, and simulation; Participating in preparing for the delivery, validation, and operational implementation of related research tools; Conducting/providing technical recommendations, support, reviews and evaluations; Provide technical recommendations, evaluations, and assistance in human factors analyses. Providing technical analyses and technical contributions to task forces, consortia, and working groups supporting the ITS Program.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 15 of 106

1.1.4. ITS Research Evaluation Technical Assistance This activity will provide technical support needed for managing the field testing and model deployments of ITS programs research applications and technology. Separate, independent procurements will be made to perform the actual ITS Research Evaluation activities, however, some technical assistance may be required in the conduct of such evaluations related to the technical aspects of the programs. This activity area is for technical assistance in support of the research evaluations. The contractor will provide support in the technical aspects of the implementation and oversight of applications, technology, and standards resulting from the ITS JPO research program. The contractor will provide assistance to the ITS program managers in their efforts to test or demonstrate limited deployment or field testing of their research products. Areas requiring competency include: ˇ Safety Technical Aspects ˇ Mobility Technical Aspects ˇ Environment Technical Aspects ˇ Policy and Foundational Aspects ˇ Testing and Demonstrations Technical Aspects ˇ Program Effectiveness Utilizing Technical Metrics Examples of research evaluation technology assistance may include: ˇ Developing and providing subject specific briefings; ˇ Providing on-call program and technical assistance in coordination with DOT modal organizations, other DOT organizations and field offices, participating national and international governmental agencies, state and local agencies, and industry stakeholders (on site visits as appropriate); ˇ Monitoring local negotiations and providing assistance/recommendations as necessary to accelerate the implementation; ˇ Reviewing and commenting on proposed implementation plans from participating areas; ˇ Monitoring progress and providing status updates; ˇ Reviewing and commenting on technical aspects of contract submittals; ˇ Monitoring technical aspects of contractor performance and reporting to ITS JPO; ˇ Supporting the ITS JPO information repository to manage archived data and reports, and coordinating their use within DOT; ˇ Documenting experiences and lessons learned and working with the ITS JPO to share these; ˇ Support in communicating the purpose and benefits of the program in various venues. 1.2. Functional Competencies

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 16 of 106

Functional competencies involve the experience, knowledge, proficiency, and/or skill needed to perform a particular type of work activity (function). Functional competencies are related to expertise in a given function and are not necessarily tied to a given situation, i.e., they are competencies which are transferable to different situations.

1.2.1. Technical Project Management and Coordination The contractor shall provide technical project management support and coordination to ITS JPO and ITS-sponsored research programs as needed. Working closely with the ITS JPO and USDOT Program Managers, the contractor shall assist with the following: ˇ Developing, reviewing, and analyzing technical project plans, technical project schedules, estimates, and other technical documentation; ˇ Providing program life cycle management and standards support; ˇ Reviewing contract and procurement documents and plans for technical adequacy; ˇ Developing and evaluating technical measures and processes to ensure efficient and effective delivery of programs and projects; ˇ Drafting technical project management presentations and reports; ˇ Collecting and contributing project management information to ITS tracking systems and information repositories; ˇ Attending project meetings, and preparing and distributing minutes; ˇ Controlling technical information exchange, coordinating technical project management input, and seeking consensus from project stakeholders; ˇ Other technical project management and general administrative support services, including graphic design/support. 1.2.2. Systems Engineering Support The contractor shall provide systems engineering support to ITS JPO and ITS-sponsored research programs. Working closely with the ITS JPO and USDOT Program Managers, the contractor shall provide the following as needed: ˇ Systems definition, planning, analysis, and evaluation; ˇ Systems research evaluation, operational test, and deployment support; ˇ Systems life cycle costing and cost analysis; ˇ Develop IT and telecommunications security plans, security risk assessments, security requirements, and security architecture; ˇ Assistance with system architecture definition/development; ˇ Assistance with governance structure assessment/development; ˇ Traceability of systems solutions to technical requirements; ˇ Maintenance of systems engineering documentation; ˇ Modeling and simulation support; ˇ System security, reliability, resiliency, redundancy, and maintainability analysis; ˇ Evaluation of existing and emerging state-of-the-art technologies and their capabilities on a global basis;

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 17 of 106

ˇ

Technical literature/article identification, review, and synopsis. 1.2.3. Policy, Institutional Issues, Regulatory, and Legal Analysis

The contractor shall provide analysis on policy, institutional issues, regulatory, and legal analysis to ITS JPO and ITS-sponsored research programs. The contractor shall provide the following as needed: ˇ Legal and/or regulatory expertise, research, and analysis on ITS related technical issues in various areas including, but not limited to: o Telecommunications o Intellectual property, data ownership, and privacy o The environment o Land use and siting issues regarding utilities (particularly communications) o Right-of-way acquisition, resource sharing, and permitting processes o Public utility siting challenges, regulations, and relationships with States and municipalities ˇ Policy research, analysis, and assessment of policy alternatives on issues associated with intelligent transportation systems technology including assessment of policy implications of technical decisions ˇ Support for intergovernmental relations including interfacing with elected and appointed government officials ˇ Assistance with development of policy recommendations and agendas ˇ Assistance with regulatory cost/benefit analysis In addition to providing support in the areas above, the contractor must have technical understanding and relevant experience with: ˇ The regulatory process ˇ The effects of regulation on the market and market opportunities ˇ Statutory requirements, policy issues, and political environment with utilities ˇ Liability and innovative risk management and risk sharing concepts ˇ Public and private finance vehicles NOTE: 1. Official legal advice to, and legal representation of, the Government of the United States, the Department of Transportation, and any modal administration of the Department of Transportation shall not be performed by the contractor or any subcontractor(s). 2. Support for intergovernmental relations shall be undertaken only in coordination with the FHWA Office of Policy and Governmental Affairs.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 18 of 106

1.2.4. Business Planning and Financial Services The contractor shall provide a broad range of business planning and financial services to ITS JPO and ITS-sponsored research programs. The contractor shall provide expertise in the following areas as needed: ˇ Business planning (particularly as it relates to technology, telecommunications, and traffic and transit data markets) including an understanding of such issues as business innovation, entry to markets, barriers and challenges, accounting, asset and spectrum valuation and depreciation, life cycle costing models, and revenue models ˇ Innovative business model development, including ability to assess value of assets, knowledge of how to determine value for forecasting of revenue streams, pricing of innovative technologies and transactions, pricing of data, knowledge of public commodity pricing and markets, and knowledge of synergistic partnerships that offer greater value through the dynamics of vertical and horizontal integration with partners ˇ Venture capital assessments / strategies (criteria) ˇ Various types of public-private partnerships, how they are structured and advantages/disadvantages, and the terminology/issues involved with each ˇ Revenue modeling and forecasting with respect to complex, multi-sector markets, with particular expertise in dotcom concepts and utility concepts ˇ Financing strategies, including but not limited to structuring partnerships and contract mechanisms, investment strategies, and trade-off analysis ˇ Fundraising through resource markets for major projects (such as infrastructure or construction) including capital, debt, and equity markets, bond markets, venture capital markets ˇ Liability and risk assessment, including risk management techniques 1.3. Situational Competencies Situational competency includes experience working in or working with a specific industry, organization, program/project, or group. Examples of situational competencies might include experience in the automotive industry or experience working on the "SHRP" program. 1.3.1. Technology Transfer Technical Assistance and Coordination This activity will collect, analyze, disseminate, and discuss information about ITS research projects to/with public and private organizations in order to foster their deployment. The experience needed to support this activity includes: ˇ Private Sector Experience ˇ State DOT Experience

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 19 of 106

ˇ

Federal and International Experience

The contractor will support the ITS Program Managers in: ˇ Determining what information/data needs to be transferred ˇ Developing technological content for technology transfer efforts ˇ Developing web metrics and measures of technology transfer success The contractor will provide technical assistance to support ITS knowledge management, knowledge transfer, and technology transfer, as well as stakeholder coordination. The specific technical assistance and coordination activities will be identified as part of the initial assistance request and/or assessment. Particular focus will be on assistance with the following: ˇ Outreach Activities: The contractor will assist with outreach efforts and may be called upon to organize, facilitate, manage the logistics of, and/or participate in meetings with stakeholder organizations, including federal, state and local personnel. In addition to face to face meetings, other mechanisms may be used as appropriate to facilitate stakeholder involvement: video- or tele-conferences, webinars, e-mail distribution lists, information repository on-line coordination, etc. The contractor will assist in the technical planning, such as establishing the meeting agenda or determining the subject areas for the focus of the meetings. Information/Data Coordination Activities: The contractor will assist in collecting, summarizing, and disseminating technical information. Candidate technical information includes the types of data elements collected, their sources and locations; reported performance measures including: inputs, outputs, outcomes, and measures of value added (such as benefit-cost or multi-criteria indices); integration of data sources; integration with legacy systems; and information dissemination mechanisms being used (511, websites, etc). The contractor will work with ITS JPO to make these data available on the USDOT Web site. Although most information will be made publicly available, consideration will be given to having a limited-access portion accessible only to project personnel. This would facilitate timely exchange of interim data, draft reports, meeting notes, etc. among project personnel. The contractor will also prepare other sources of public information such as brochures, briefings, conference presentations, and briefings to stakeholder committees, and electronic or paper newsletters as appropriate. The contractor will also support collaboration and dissemination of information via social networking, including Web2.0/3.0 technologies. Stakeholder Coordination Activities: The contractor will assist with convening and planning meetings with various stakeholders including, but not limited to, firms in the automotive industry, automotive after-market providers, transportation associations, state DOTs, and other USDOT administrations (FHWA, FTA, NHTSA, FMCSA, etc.). Stakeholder coordination includes providing assistance with arranging for & scheduling meetings, arranging travel plans for getting stakeholders to meetings, developing meeting agendas and

ˇ

ˇ

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 20 of 106

ˇ

ˇ

presentations, packaging presentations and supporting material, monitoring stakeholder interaction, and documenting and distributing meeting notes. Technical Support Activities: The contractor will assure that all appropriate technical information is coordinated with the ITS JPO. The contractor will work with the ITS JPO or other designated DOT organizations to organize this activity by developing mechanisms for acquiring, storing, and disseminating such data; establish common data formats; assist with quality assurance; and spot check the data to ensure that it is accessible, complete, and in the proper format. The contractor will provide recommendations on data harmonization, such as identifying opportunities to use ITS standards, as appropriate. Upon request, the contractor will provide summaries of data sets. The contractor will provide oncall technical assistance, as necessary, in such areas as establishing system acceptance criteria, witnessing acceptance tests, and/or reviewing test results. To this end, site visits will be conducted as appropriate. Lessons learned from other participating areas will be shared with areas having later implementations. Technical Oversight Activities: The contractor will review technical aspects of project status and progress in the participating areas. As appropriate, the contractor will review contractor activities such as software verification. Upon request from the Task Manager or COTR, the contractor will participate in and provide oversight of acceptance testing activities. The contractor will perform technical reviews of contractor's milestone deliverables, including proposed implementation plans, software documentation, and system acceptance plans. Comments resulting from these reviews will be provided to ITS JPO and COTR/Task Manager. 1.3.2. Mode Focused Research

This activity will provide technical assistance to the modal specific research programs and organizations identified by the ITS Strategic Plan. New modal specific research programs will be defined periodically by the ITS Program. Like their multi-modal counterparts mode specific research programs must meet specific criteria: ˇ Support identified US DOT goals and priorities. ˇ Support identified modal goals and priorities if applicable to modal-specific research. ˇ Offer high potential for return on investment. ˇ Represent areas where Federal research investment is appropriate and not potentially duplicative. ˇ Reflect primarily multimodal-focused research while also accommodating modalspecific research. ˇ Reflect, as appropriate, considerations and recommendations provided by the ITS Program Advisory Committee. ˇ Reflect, as appropriate, considerations and recommendations provided by external (non-governmental) stakeholders communities. Technical assistance will be provided to DOT modal administrators/organizations in the technical assessment, evaluation of issues, and analysis of mode specific research. The

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 21 of 106

specific technical assistance activities will be identified as part of the initial assistance request and/or assessment. These assistance activities may involve systems engineering, subject matter research and analysis, architecture analysis, design and implementation issues, training, etc. 1.3.3. Legislative and Executive Branch Mandated Research This activity will provide technical assistance in support of legislatively mandated research, defined through authorization or appropriations law. Other research priorities may be defined by ITS/JPO Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) for the Secretary of Transportation, and in exceptional instances for elsewhere in the Executive Branch. This will include providing technical assistance to ITS and other DOT administrators/organizations in the technical assessment, evaluation of issues, and analysis of Legislative or Executive Branch mandated research. The specific technical assistance activities will be identified as part of the initial assistance request and/or assessment. 1.4. Program Management, Start-up, and Transition 1.4.1. Program Management Activities The contractor shall provide program management support for the conduct of the contract, the preparation of task order proposals, management of task order work, management, tracking, and reporting of contract and task order financial data, and other special charges that may be required for the contract. Personnel with a Project Management Professional (PMP) certification, as certified by the Project Management Institute (PMI), shall be responsible for this task. Working closely with the ITS JPO and USDOT Program Managers, the contractor shall provide program management support for each competency area, activity, and task order. At a minimum, the Contractor shall develop and maintain a work plan for all task orders issued. For some task orders or work activities, USDOT Program Managers may require more extensive program management elements such as work breakdown structures (WBS), earned value management, communication plans, etc. as prescribed by the Program Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) or other common industry standards. The Contractor shall inform the COTR as soon as possible of any problems encountered or anticipated that might affect successful completion of a deliverable or task order. Progress Reporting The contractor is required to provide monthly progress reports addressing work completed, forecasts and hours expended. Specific schedule and information includes: ˇ Monthly Progress Reports ­ the Contractor shall submit, to the Government, a progress report one (1) month after the effective date of the contract, and every 30 days thereafter during the period of performance. The Contractor shall prepare a

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 22 of 106

ˇ

progress report advising of the work completed during the performance period and the work forecast for the following period. Risk Monitoring ­ the Contractor shall document risks that might affect the project and the characteristics of the risk. Types of risks that must be considered include risks potentially impacting: project schedule, scope, and costs. A Risk Management Log must be maintained on an on-going basis during the entire period of performance to track risks, mitigation plans and status. Each risk will have a unique number, probability of occurrence and impact of occurrence rating.

The Contractor shall deliver other program status reports and briefings, as required, and shall ensure that necessary facilities, equipment, and management tools needed to carry out the tasks orders are on-hand. Use of e-mail is encouraged; however, the contractor shall confirm receipt by the COTR or government addressee. 1.4.2. Start-Up Activities The startup effort shall not extend beyond the first six months of the contract's Period of Performance. During this time, the contractor will take necessary and reasonable steps to start up the new ITS Technical Support Services contract (ITS TSSC); working with the incumbent contractor, as necessary, and as directed by the COTR. Within two weeks of the award of the contract, the contractor staff leadership shall attend a collaborative "kick off" meeting (additional meetings may be required) to determine required steps to be taken to provide for the transition to the new ITS TSSC. These meetings will include members of the ITS staff, the existing incumbent contractor, and other ITS support contractors (as required). The ITS TSSC contractor will: ˇ Provide a plan with suggested steps or processes, a schedule, and supporting documentation that will be required to demonstrate a smooth transition to the new contract within 60 days after award; ˇ Work closely with the ITS staff and as required, any existing incumbent contractors, to collaboratively reach agreement on the steps, processes, and documentation that may be required; ˇ Carry out actions necessary to meet the agreed to plan and schedule; ˇ Participate in defining/refining and implementing the task order process and procedures; ˇ Taking other reasonable, ITS JPO-approved, administrative steps necessary to begin the substantive work required under this contract. 1.4.3. Transition Activities After the Initial Start-Up Effort Note: In March 2005 the U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded the existing "ITS Engineering Support Services" contract (also referred to as the "existing contract") for providing support to the ITS JPO staff in the conduct of the ITS program. The contractor who is awarded the new "ITS Technical Support

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 23 of 106

Services" contract resulting from this solicitation must establish the program and technical capacity to fully execute the work required within six months of contract award. The purpose of this subtask will be to provide a mechanism for the contractor to bill the ITS JPO for reasonably-incurred costs and activities in transitioning work products from the existing "ITS Engineering Support Services" contract to the new "ITS Technical Support Services" contract. Specific tasks will be defined as a part of each Task Order that will be transitioned. For each Task Order under the existing contract, the contractor will perform, at a minimum, the following: ˇ Work with the COTR and Task Manager to determine which work products and activities will be transitioned; ˇ Work with the incumbent of the existing "ITS Engineering Support Services" contract to plan and acquire the necessary work products; ˇ Develop a transition plan for each task order that will provide for migration from the old contract to the new contract. The transition plan must be approved by the COTR and Task Manager for each Task Order covered by the plan. The plan must indicate which work products will be transferred and the schedule for completion of the transition; ˇ Document and provide information to the COTR and Task Manager verifying that all elements of the transition plan have been completed. Note: Offeror's should be fully capable of performance within six months of award under all tasks of the award contract. Note: In the performance of all Task Orders issued under this contract, the contractor shall use its own work space/office space, which shall not be located on the U. S. Department of Transportation's premises. The contractor shall provide office space, located off of Government premises, for the contractor's staff members who will be performing this contract. And because this contract provides the technical support for the U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) ITS program, the contractor's staff will be in daily contact with the U. S. DOT staff members who are implementing the ITS program. Therefore, a requirement of this contract will be the establishment of a contractor's office facility in the downtown Washington DC area that is easily accessible to the US DOT headquarters, located at 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE, Washington, DC (on M Street; between New Jersey Avenue and Fourth Street, SE). Accessibility will be facilitated by a contractor's office location that is within a short walking distance of a Metro Station and no more than a 20 minute Metro ride from the U. S. DOT headquarters location. Note: See Sections L and M of this Solicitation. Such proximity of office space (or the offeror's demonstrated ability to quickly make arrangements for obtaining such proximity upon award of the contract) is a requirement and part of the proposal evaluation criteria for all proposals submitted under this solicitation. Accordingly,

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 24 of 106

it is imperative that each offeror's initially-submitted written proposal explicitly and adequately address the proximity requirements specified in this section. Any offeror's failure to do so will be considered a technical weakness and will reduce the offeror's technical rating. 2. Supplementing the skills and expertise of the ITS Program Managers 2.1. Technical Competencies The contractor will supplement the skills and expertise of the ITS Program Managers in the Technical Competencies. See section L.15-C for additional details/proposal preparation instructions. 2.2. Functional Competencies The contractor will supplement the skills and expertise of the ITS Program Managers in the Functional Competencies. See section L.15-C for additional details/proposal preparation instructions. 2.3. Situational Competencies The contractor will supplement the skills and expertise of the ITS Program Managers in the Situational Competencies. See section L.15-C for additional details/proposal preparation instructions. C.6 ACCESS TO SENSITIVE INFORMATION Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information* which shall not be disclosed by the contractor or subcontractors unless authorized by the Contracting Officer. To protect sensitive information, the contractor and subcontractors shall provide training to any contractor and subcontractor employee authorized access to sensitive information and, upon request of the Government, provide information as to an individual's suitability to have such information. Contractor and subcontractors employees found by the Government to be unsuitable or whose employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security, may be prevented from performing work under the particular contract when requested by the Contracting Officer. The contractor shall ensure that contractor and subcontractors employees are: (1) citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced by Immigration and Naturalization Service documentation; and (2) have background investigations in accordance with DOT Order 1632.2B, Personnel Security Management. The contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded involving access to Government facilities, sensitive information, and/or resources.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 25 of 106

*Sensitive Information is proprietary data or other information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss or misuse could adversely affect national interest, conduct of Federal programs, or privacy of individuals specified in the Privacy Act, but has not been specifically authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy under an Executive Order or Act of Congress. Information Technology (IT) Services. The contractor and subcontractors shall be responsible for IT* security for all systems operated or connected to a DOT network, regardless of location. This includes any IT resources or services in which the contractor and subcontractors has physical or electronic access to DOT's sensitive information that directly supports the mission of DOT (e.g., hosting DOT e-Government sites or other IT operations). If necessary, the Government shall have access to contractor and any subcontractor facilities, systems/networks operated on behalf of DOT, documentation, databases and personnel to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability scanning), investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to DOT data or IT systems. Within 30 days of contract award, the contractor shall develop and provide to the Government for approval, an IT Security Plan which describes the processes and procedures the contractor will follow in performance of this contract to ensure the appropriate security of IT resources developed, processed, or used under this contract. This Plan shall be written and implemented in accordance with applicable Federal laws including: The Computer Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.), the ClingerCohen Act of 1996, and the Government Information Security Reform Act (GISRA) of 2000 and meet the Government IT security requirements including : OMB Circular A130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix 111, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources; National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Guidelines; Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM) and associated guidelines; and DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. The contractor and subcontractors shall screen its personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by the contractor for DOT or interconnected to a DOT network in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management, and shall ensure that contractor employees are trained annually in accordance with OMB Circular A-130, Government Information Security Reform Act (GISRA), and National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) requirements with a specific emphasis on rules of behavior. The contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded for IT services. *IT means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information and as further defined in OMB Circular A-130 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 26 of 106

Part 2. C.6 SPECIFICATIONS FOR DELIVERABLES Deliverables will be delineated in each Task Order and may take the form of hard copy publications, electronic media, and presentation materials. In addition, they may be published by one of several offices, including the ITS Joint Program Office, or other DOT Administrations. The following specifications apply to these deliverables, though which specifications to follow may depend upon which office is supporting the publishing activity. In addition, the contractor will be responsible for maintaining the accuracy of the delivered material as necessary and scoped within the appropriate task. Specific requirements will be delineated in each Task Order. Because the following specifications apply to a number of different kinds of deliverable items, the contractor shall carefully review the entire set of specifications as given below before producing any given deliverable item, and the contractor shall confer with the COTR to resolve any doubt or any ambiguity as to which particular specifications shall apply to any given deliverable item to be produced under this contract. TECHNICAL REPORTS All technical reports shall be delivered in a Word 2003 (or newer version) or in any other format specified by the COTR for the specific work product, with hard copies as needed, and shall be provided electronically. HARD COPY PUBLICATIONS Publications Guidelines for the ITS Joint Program Office For each publication, the contractor shall furnish the COTR with 5 copies of the final draft of the document. The contractor shall also supply an electronic version of the final draft via email and/or on CD ROM(s). Electronic text files shall also be in Word 2003 (or newer version) or equivalent format. Graphics may be created as separate elements and imported into the text file, but graphics must be included in the electronic version submitted to the ITS Joint Program Office. All fonts used in the document must be supplied on the CD ROM so the document will print as it appeared on the contractor's equipment. The use of one of the standard true type fonts that are provided with most printers is recommended. Art must be produced in a program that can export an interchange file format that can be imported into the full text. Photos must be in jpg or tif, with on-screen preview and with line screen appropriate for printing. Files should be provided in a manageable size. Publications for All FHWA Offices, Including Those for the ITS Joint Program Office

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 27 of 106

All reports to be published shall be prepared in accordance with the "Guidelines for Preparing Federal Highway Administration Publications" (FHWA-AD-88-001), dated January 1988, and as amended by Change 1 dated May 20, 1994. Specifically, the contractor shall provide the government with the following for each report developed under this contract: 1. A completed Technical Report Documentation Page, Form DOT 1700.7 (8-72), which is located via the Internet at http://www.bts.gov/itc/1770-7.pdf. This form is necessary to ensure all reports are entered into the National Technical Information Service database. 2. An executive summary under separate cover. The executive summary shall consist of a one page description of the report, including the title, why is it important, what it embodies; findings and/or benefits (expected or realized), real-world example, who is involved (principals, team, other significant participants) and the audience. All reports shall have an executive summary. 3. A printed version of the report. A camera-ready copy (a publication term used to define the finished manuscript, including all art work (illustrations or photographs) ready for printing by photographic or other means. 4. An electronic version of the report. All photographs and negatives used within the report are property of DOT. 5. A completed ITS Electronic Document Library (EDL) form. This profile must be completed to ensure all reports are properly indexed for storage and retrieval. All reports not to be published shall conform to the formatting specifications requested by the Government's cognizant Task Manager. ELECTRONIC MEDIA HTML Coding For documents (generally under 50 pages) to be coded by DOT staff: To submit electronic files to be coded by DOT staff the document should be sent in Word 2003 or above, with graphic files sent separately in either jpeg or gif format. For documents over 50 pages to be coded by external sources: All web-enabled documents should be coded in HTML 3.2 or above, to be viewed in Internet Explorer browser versions 7.0 or better. Design and function need to be pre-approved by the COTR and appropriate web master (either FHWA, JPO, FTA, or NHTSA web master). Any scripting beyond HTML needs to be pre-approved by the appropriate web master. Documents should be broken down into manageable files and graphics should either be

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 28 of 106

jpeg or gif and as small as possible (less than 50k). The usage of frames is permissible. Commented code should be used to support future revisions. Color codes should be hexadecimal, not word codes. These tags should be used: <b>not<strong>, <I>not<em>. Furthermore, <u>(underlining) should not be used. End paragraph tags</p> are not necessary. Animated graphics should not loop endlessly. Graphics Request for artwork to be designed for the web should be accompanied by originals (photos, slides, existing artwork, etc.) if possible. These will then be used as reference to check color. Electronic files submitted for inclusion in the graphic should be saved in a jpeg or tif format with a resolution of 300 pixels/inch. If there is an existing design that the graphic needs to tie into, or if there is a possibility that variations of this graphic may be used in the future, this should be discussed upon submitting graphic request. PRESENTATION MATERIALS Presentation materials that are prepared for conferences, briefings, courses, workshops, etc., and developed in electronic format shall be submitted in hard copy format as well as in the program of origin that is acceptable to DOT. Art must be produced in a program that can export an interchange file format that can be imported into other files, such as reports. Photos must be in tif or eps format, with on-screen preview and with line screen appropriate for printing. SPECIFICATIONS FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIALS Photographs shall be submitted as digital images, OR developed photographs, AND electronic files with resolution of at least 300 dpi (dots-per-square-inch), and stored in a tagged image file format (tiff). PowerPoint files may use lower resolution photographs; however, photographic images embedded in the PowerPoint files must be separately delivered in 300dpi, tiff files. SPECIFICATIONS FOR FINAL REPORTS The contractor shall provide the Government with the following, for any final report(s) developed under any Task Orders, as requested by the Government's cognizant Task Manager: 1. A completed Technical Report Documentation form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72). This form is necessary to ensure that all reports are entered into the National Technical Information Service database. (Form is located on http://www.bts.gov/itc/1700-7.pdf); 2. An executive summary under separate cover;

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 29 of 106

3. A camera ready copy including all art work (illustrations, photographs, charts or tables) when specified, ready for printing by photographic or other means; 4. An electronic (in Word 2003 or newer) version of the report; 5. A one-page description of the report, including the title, why it is important, what it embodies, findings and/or benefits (expected or realized), real-world examples of who is involved (principals, team, or other significant participants) and the audience; 6. A completed ITS Electronic Clearinghouse Document Profile Sheet; Applicable reports shall be prepared in accordance with the "Guidelines for Preparing Federal Highway Administration Publications" (FHWA-AD-88001), dated January 1988, and as amended by Change 1, dated May 20, 1994. All reports or other documentation shall provide units of measurement in the SI (Metric) System with their English equivalents. C.6.1 Minimum Requirements for FHWA Web Pages The following minimum technical standards must be met by all FHWA web pages. Web documents that do not meet these standards will not be posted. 1. FHWA Web Pages will be encoded to conform to HTML 4.01 Transitional or higher, as defined by the World Wide Web Consortium. 2. File names will not exceed 20 characters in length. File names will be lower case, consist solely of letters, numbers and the underscore and will not contain slashes, spaces, tildes or hyphens. File extensions are to be 3 characters or less whenever possible (i.e. .htm instead of .html). 3. All web pages will have a title in the head section of HTML documents. The title should be unique (to the server), brief, and descriptive - not to exceed 150 characters in length. 4. Web pages must be free of broken links or missing images. All links to pages within the server will be relative. 5. Web pages posted on the public Internet will have a standard header and footer. Web pages posted on StaffNet (FHWA Intranet) must have a standard footer. 6. FHWA web pages will comply with Section 508 web accessibility standards as established by the Architectural Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. 7. All textual files posted on the FHWA Internet server will be available in HTML format. All other formats (PDF, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) will have HTML equivalents. 8. The bodies of web pages will use sans-serif fonts, e.g., Arial or Helvetica.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 30 of 106

9. All non-DOT external links on Internet web pages will feature exit doors. 10. All entry point web pages on the Internet will feature a privacy policy statement (or a link to the Agency privacy policy statement on the main server). 11. Web pages that collect survey information from the public must be approved by the Office of Management and Budget, in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act. 12. New FHWA Web sites must be approved by the FHWA CIO before posting. 13. The use of "persistent" cookies on FHWA web sites is forbidden. "Sessions" cookies are permitted, subject to approval on a case-by-case basis. C.6.2 Government Printing Requirements Printers Dummy As final copy, the contractor shall prepare a full-sized (or 90 percent-sized) dummy of the document, showing pagination, colors used, photo placement, and placement of text and all other visual elements. Printers Disks The final electronic files for printing shall be delivered to the FHWA on CD-ROMs, or other acceptable media. The disk shall include all necessary files for producing the printed document, and be accompanied by the standard GPO Form 952, Desktop Publishing----Disk Information. If the contractor fails to provide explicit instructions and all needed files and information with the final deliverables (printers dummy and printer's disks) the printing process will be delayed until the FHWA receives corrected files or information from the contractor. The FHWA is not responsible for any additional costs, which may be incurred as a result of missing or incomplete information provided by the contractor. C.7 REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING SECTION 508 STANDARDS

Deliverables will be defined in each individual Task Order and may take the form of hard copy publications, electronic media, and/or presentation materials. In addition, they may be published by one of several FHWA and/or other DOT offices. Special requirements will be delineated in each Task Order. However, unless otherwise noted in individual task orders, the following requirements apply to final technical deliverables or other documents that FHWA plans to post on a Government website. In addition to the work requirements specified in this statement of work, vendors must ensure that all electronic documents that they prepare will meet the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The act requires that all

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 31 of 106

electronic products prepared for the Federal Government be accessible to persons with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, cognitive, and mobility impairments. Vendors can view Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm and the Federal IT Accessibility Initiative (Home Page) http://section508.gov/ for detailed information. The FHWA has determined that the accessibility requirements contained in the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards, Section 1194.22, "Web-based intranet and internet information and applications," apply to this work. The standards are available at www.accessboard.gov/sec508/508standards.htm. The following paragraphs summarize the requirements for preparing FHWA reports in conformance with Section 508 for eventual posting by FHWA to an FHWA-sponsored website. If you have further questions, please contact the FHWA Contracting Officer's Technical Representative listed in this statement of work. Electronic documents with images Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element in all publications prepared in electronic format. Use descriptions (such as, "alt" and "longdesc") for all non-text images or place them in element content. For all documents prepared, vendors must prepare one standard HTML format (as described in this statement of work) AND one text format that includes descriptions for all non-text images. "Text equivalent" means text sufficient to reasonably describe the image. For example, an image that is merely decorative requires only a very brief "text equivalent" description. However, if the image conveys information that is important to the content of the report, then text sufficient to reasonably describe that image and its purpose within the context of the report must be provided. Electronic documents with complex charts or data tables When preparing tables that are heavily designed, provide adequate alternate information so that assistive technologies can read them out. Identify row and column headers for data tables. Provide the information in a non-linear form. Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. Electronic documents with forms When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 32 of 106

SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1 PACKAGING Preservation, packing, and packaging of items shall be in accordance with commercial practice and adequate for acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation at the most economical rates. D.2 SHIPMENT AND MARKING Shipment of deliverable items, other than reports, shall be as follows: Ship to: Research and Innovative Technology Administration Joint Program Office 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 ________________________

Mark for:

The Contractor shall mark each shipment with the company name, this contract number, the item identification, quantity of items, and notice of partial or final delivery.

SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE E.1 E.2 All work hereunder shall be subject to review by the Government. FAR INSPECTION CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Inspection of Services- Fixed Price (AUG 1996) Inspection of Services - Cost-Reimbursement (APR 1984)

52.246-4 52.246-5

SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F.1 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

All work and services required hereunder shall be completed on or before 12 months from the effective date of the contract. Performance shall begin on the effective date of the contract. Should the Government elect to exercise any of the options under this contract, the total contract period of performance shall be completed within the time frame specified in that option. In no event shall the total contract performance exceed 60 months. Notwithstanding the provisions of FAR Clause 52.217-9, the contract will be for a base period of 12 months, with a Government option for 4 additional 12 month periods.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 33 of 106

F.2

ALLOWABLE PERIOD OF TASK ORDER ISSUANCE

All work and services required hereunder shall be completed on or before the date specified in the individual Task Orders. Task Orders may be issued up to the final day of this contract, and the contract will remain in force to allow for completion of all Task Orders issued. However, no new Task Orders shall be issued after the final day of the contract. The period of performance for a specific Task Order will be determined prior to the effective date of that Task Order, and will be specified within the Task Order. F.3 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

Unless otherwise specified in individual Task Orders, all work performed under this contract shall be performed at the selected Contractor's facilities or other Contractorapproved locations. As needed and as defined in individual Task Orders, FHWA may require work performance onsite at the US DOT Headquarters in Washington, D.C. or at another Government facility. Any requirement for performance at a Government facility will be clearly defined in the Task Order. In the event that work is required to be performed at a Government facility, access to the facilities and all equipment necessary for the performance of the Task Order will be provided by the Government, as detailed in the Task Order. Note: FHWA anticipates minimal occurrence of Task Orders requiring performance at a Government facility. F.4 PLACE OF DELIVERY

All deliverables and a copy of the monthly reports (See Section G) under the contract shall be delivered F.O.B. Destination, under transmittal letter, to the following address:

Ship to:

Research and Innovative Technology Administration Joint Program Office 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Attention: To be filled in at time of award Email: To be filled in at time of award

The monthly progress reports and other items as specified shall be delivered by email to the Contract Administrator at the following address:

Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management HAAM-30A, Room E65-101 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 34 of 106

Washington, D.C. 20590 Attention: To be filled in at time of award Email: To be filled in at time of award F.5 SCHEDULE OF WORK

All tasks set forth in the Statement of Work shall be performed in accordance with the work schedule as delineated in each Task Order. Performance shall begin on the effective date of each Task Order. F.6 LEVEL OF EFFORT REQUIRED TO ACCOMPLISH WORK

In the performance of cost-plus-fixed-fee and firm-fixed-price Task Orders issued during the base period of performance of 12 months (one year) pursuant to this contract, the contractor shall provide a minimum of $100,000 and a maximum of ________ hours of technical effort. Direct productive labor hours are defined as actual work hours exclusive of vacation, holiday, sick leave and all other absences. F.7 52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) -- ALTERNATE I (APR 1984) 52.247-34 F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991)

F.8

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G.1 TASK ORDER PROCEDURES

All costs expended under this contract shall be incurred, and accounted for and billed under individual task orders. The Contractor may incur costs under this contract in the performance of task orders and task order modifications issued in accordance with this ordering procedure. No other costs are authorized without the express written consent of the Contracting Officer. NOTE: Authority to issue task orders under this contract is limited to a warranted Contracting Officer within the FHWA Office of Acquisition Management. No other office or agency is authorized to place task orders hereunder.

Performance under this contract is subject to the following ordering procedure: a. The Contract Administrator or the COTR will issue Task Order Proposal Requests (TOPR) to the Contractor. Each TOPR will indicate the objectives or results desired by the Government. These objectives shall be within the scope, period, and maximum value of the contract.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 35 of 106

b.

The TOPR may be placed by written communications or electronic means. Each TOPR will state the due date for proposal submission. Each TOPR will contain, at a minimum, the following information: (1) (2) Name of the COTR; Contract number, TOPR number, due date and time, and submission instructions (i.e., email submission and/or number of copies required); Description of work; If applicable, maximum number of contract labor hours and other resources authorized; Documentation requirements; Delivery schedule and estimated period of performance; Quality assurance standards, as appropriate; Travel ceiling authorized as applicable; and Planned Task Order award type (Firm-Fixed Price or Cost Plus Fixed Fee). Evaluation Factors for selection of task order awardee(s).

c.

(3) (4)

(5) (6) (7) (8) (9)

(10) d.

The Contractor's Task Order Proposal shall outline the Contractor's overall approach for completing the Task Order and shall, at a minimum, include: (1) Signed cover letter stating the Contractor's point of contact, the contract number and the TOPR number; Technical approach for performing the work, including a detailed description of tasks proposed, and a table summarizing proposed deliverables and due dates; Proposed schedule and estimated date of commencement of work; Staffing approach for performing the work including staff labor categories and proposed roles, and a level of effort chart by labor category;

(2)

(3) (4)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 36 of 106

(5) ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ e.

Cost / Price proposal for the Task Order period of performance including: Labor categories, staff names, direct labor hours, hourly rates Indirect Rates and their bases Subcontractors/Consultants and your cost analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-3 Other Direct Costs with a breakout by category Travel and materials cost estimates Profit or Fixed Fee- total and the percentage and its application. Total estimated cost or price for completion of the task order

The Contractor shall not commence work on a Task Order without written authorization from the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall not change or modify the delivery schedule of any task order without written authorization from the Contracting Officer. The Contract Administrator/Contracting Officer may modify Task Orders in the same manner as they are issued. In the event that there is a conflict between the requirements of the Task Order and the Contractor's proposal, the Task Order shall prevail. For Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF) Task Orders: ˇ If the Contractor, either at the time of receipt of a Task Order or at any time during task order performance, has reason to believe that the cost or number of labor hours will exceed the estimates set forth in the Task Order, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer in writing and suggest a revised estimate for completion of the work required. The Contracting Officer will make the final determination of the approved cost and number of direct productive labor hours for each task order. The Contractor shall not exceed the estimated level of effort and cost specified in each Task Order without written authorization of the Contracting Officer. The Limitation of Funds or Limitation of Costs clauses apply to each cost reimbursable task order individually. Therefore, the Contractor is required to notify the Contracting Officer by each individual task order in accordance with clauses 52.232-22, Limitation of Funds, and 52.232-20, Limitation of Costs, as applicable.

f.

g.

h.

i.

ˇ

ˇ

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 37 of 106

NOTE: Task Orders issued under this contract may be either CPFF or FFP depending on the nature of the work requested and as negotiated. G.2 MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORT

The Contractor shall furnish an electronic copy of a monthly progress report to the COTR and to the Contract Administrator on or before the 15th of the month following the calendar month being reported. Each report shall contain concise statements covering the activities relevant to the statement of work, including: (a) (b) A clear and complete account of the work performed under each Task Order. An outline of the work to be accomplished during the next reporting period under each Task Order. A description of any problem encountered or anticipated that will affect the completion of any individual Task Order within the time and fiscal constraints as set forth in the Task Orders, together with recommended solutions to such problems; or, a statement that no problems were encountered. For CPFF Task Orders: ˇ ˇ ˇ (e) A tabulation of the planned, actual and cumulative person-hours expended by the personnel identified in the Professional Staffing of each task order. A chart showing current and cumulative expenditures by month versus planned expenditures. A chart showing cumulative expenditures versus funding obligated. Preliminary or interim results, conclusions, trends, or other items of information that the Contractor feels are of timely interest to the FHWA. MONTHLY STATUS MEETINGS

(c)

(d)

G.3

The Contractor shall conduct a monthly status meeting each month, on or about the 15th, with the COTR for purposes of addressing the progress of work, status of tasks, status of task proposals in progress, and other matters salient to executing this contract. G.4 (a) (b) FUNDS AVAILABLE Currently, funds in the amount of $__________ are obligated to this contract. The balance of funding under this contract ($__________) will be obligated subject to availability of funds and formal modification to this contract by the CO. The clause entitled "LIMITATION OF FUNDS" applies to this contract. Any notification required on the part of the Contract shall be made in writing to the CO.

(c)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 38 of 106

In the event that the contract is not funded beyond the estimated cost set forth in the schedule, the Contractor shall deliver to the CO the data collected and the material produced or in process or acquired in connection with the performance of the project provided herein together with a summary report in five copies of its progress and accomplishments to date. G.5 (a) PAYMENT ­ COST REIMBURSEMENT (CPFF Task Orders) The Contractor may be reimbursed for direct and indirect costs incurred in the performance hereof as are allowable under the provisions of Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in accordance with the terms of approved Task Orders, subject to the Limitation of Funds Clause. For Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee Task Orders, the Contractor may request monthly interim payments for costs incurred during the performance of each specific task order. See the "Invoices" section for submittal instructions. A statement of costs incurred by the Contractor in the performance of Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee task orders issued under this contract and claimed to constitute allowable costs shall support each monthly interim payment request. Each monthly interim payment request shall be submitted in accordance with "Instructions for Completing the Public Voucher SF 1034" (See Section J, Attachment No. 2) to be considered proper for payment. Prior approval of the Contracting Officer is required if the Contractor wishes to use a different payment request format. Any payments hereunder will be made upon determination by the Contracting Officer that the requirements of the contract are being met. In accordance with clause 52.232-25, "Prompt Payment," monthly interim payments will be made by the 30th day following receipt of proper request for payment by the designated billing office, unless audit or other review is considered necessary to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract. All interim payments hereunder will be made upon further determination by the Contracting Officer that the Contractor is making adequate progress toward successful contract completion. Final invoice payment shall be made upon the Contracting Officer's determination that all contract requirements have been completed. The payment due date for final invoice shall be established in accordance with the clause 52.232-25. PAYMENT OF FIXED FEE (CPFF Type Task Orders) - The actual amount of fixed fee payable under this IDIQ contract will be established through the issuance of CostPlus-Fixed-Fee task orders under the contract. The Contractor may request payment of fixed fee, by submission of a separate invoice, upon the successful completion of each Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee task order. The Government will pay the fixed fee amount for each Task Order based on the Contracting Officer's determination that all work under the Task Order has been satisfactorily completed.

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 39 of 106

G.6

PAYMENT - FIRM-FIXED-PRICE (FFP Task Orders)

For Firm-Fixed-Price task orders, unless otherwise specified in the individual task order, the Contractor may request payment for the Firm-Fixed-Price specified in the task order upon the Government's acceptance of all work under that task order. The Contractor may also request milestone payments in accordance with the milestone schedule negotiated for the task order. Satisfactory completion and acceptance of the Task Order will be made by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. G.7 INVOICES

Submit all invoices to one of the following invoice addresses: All invoices and required supporting documents shall be sent via e-mail to the following e-mail address: 9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. (a) Include the invoice as an attached PDF document (b) Include in the e-mail subject line the following: (i) Invoice No. # (ii) Contract / Task Order Number (iii) Name of your Company/Organization (iv) Attention: (Contract Specialist's name) (c) Include a cc to the Contract Specialist (d) Include a cc to the respective task manager (as specified in each task order) Example: Invoice No. 1 of Contract No. DTFH61-08-C-00001 ABC Corporation, Attention: (Contract Specialist's name) If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB as an e-mail attachment, the Contractor must select one of the other submission options presented below: Invoices may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address: Federal Highway Administration Markview Processing P.O. Box 268865 Oklahoma City, OK 73126-8865 Attention: [Contract Specialist Name] Invoices submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address: MMAC FHWA/AMZ-150 6500 S. MacArthur Blvd Oklahoma City, OK 73169 Attention: [Contract Specialist Name]

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 40 of 106

Express Delivery Point of Contact: [to be filled in at award] All invoices, regardless of submission method, must identify the Contract Specialist's Name as the invoicing point of contact. An invoice submitted to an address other than those identified above will be returned to the Contractor as non-conforming. G.8 INDIRECT COSTS (Applies Only to CPFF Type Task Orders)

Pending the establishment of final indirect cost rates which shall be negotiated based on audit of actual costs as provided in Subpart 42.7 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for allowable indirect costs hereunder at the provisional indirect billing rate(s) of: [__TO BE NEGOTIATED__]. This INDIRECT COST provision does not operate to waive the LIMITATION OF FUNDS Clause. The Contractor's audited final indirect costs are allowable only insofar as they do not cause the Contractor to exceed the total estimated amounts for performance of the contract listed on page 2 (SECTION B). Any provisional indirect rates negotiated under this contract for billing purposes shall remain in effect until revised rates have been approved in writing by the CO or by the Contractor's cognizant Federal agency if applicable. The Contractor shall request new provisional billing rates in writing, no more frequently than semi-annually. Such request shall delineate the current and proposed rates to be used, along with the proposed effective date of new rates. G.9 BILLING RATES

The provisional indirect rates negotiated under this contract for billing purposes shall remain in effect until revised rates have been approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall request new provisional billing rates in writing, no more frequently than semi-annually. Such request shall delineate the current and proposed rates to be used, along with the proposed effective date of new rates. G.10 ESCALATION RATE Annual escalation of labor rates for cost-reimbursement task orders shall not exceed ________ percent, beginning in the second year of this contract, unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 41 of 106

G.11 FEE/PROFIT The Contractor shall clearly identify the fee or profit proposed in each individual Task Order Proposal. Prior to award of individual Task Orders, the Government will evaluate, and negotiate as necessary, the fee or profit for the individual Task Order. Fee and profit shall be subject to FAR 15.404-4, Profit, including the statutory limitations on fee at FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(i). G.12 TRAVEL AND PER DIEM Travel and Per Diem authorized under CPFF Task Orders under this contract shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Government Travel Regulations currently in effect. Travel requirements under this contract shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available. If economy class transportation is not available, the request for payment voucher must be submitted with justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times, and flight numbers. All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates, unless authorized by the Contracting Officer. [For proposal preparation purposes only: See Section L for guidance on preparing a cost estimate for travel.] The amount of reimbursement shall not exceed the maximum limit authorized in any Task Order. Specific conditions and limitation applicable to travel under this contract are as follows: 1. Local Travel - Reimbursement will not be allowed for travel to or from the primary place of performance (i.e., Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center (TFHRC) or DOT Headquarters Building) for those employees assigned there, or to or from the Contractor's office site. Temporary Assignments - Any Task Order requiring assignment of Contractor personnel at locations outside the primary place of performance (i.e., TFHRC or DOT Headquarters Building) for less than 6 months will be considered a temporary assignment. Travel and per diem expenses as allowable, incurred in performing temporary assignments may be billed in accordance with Government Travel Regulations.

2.

G.13 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR) The Contracting Officer may designate a Technical Representative (COTR) to assist in monitoring the work under this contract. The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison with the Contractor. The COTR is not authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in the contract and in any Task Order, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 42 of 106

any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance, or other terms or conditions. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds. The technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions of this contract and any Task Orders issued. The Contracting Officer shall authorize any such revisions in writing. G.14 SUBCONTRACTS - ADVANCE NOTIFICATION AND CONSENT Under this contract, the requirements of FAR 44.2, CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACTS, have been fulfilled for the following subcontracts: [to be filled in at award as negotiated] Any future change or revision to the Statement of Work or other applicable aspects of this contract shall include the subcontract(s) only to the extent that performance of the subcontract(s) is directly affected by the change or revision. G.15 KEY PERSONNEL The following individuals are designated as Key Personnel under this contract: Position [Offeror fill in proposed personnel] Staff Member

In the event that any key personnel become unavailable to continue in the performance of this contract, the appointment of a replacement shall be subject to prior approval of the Contracting Officer. G.16 PROFESSIONAL STAFFING The Contractor agrees to assign the following professional staffing to this contract work: Position [Offeror fill in proposed personnel] Staff Member

In the event the Contractor finds it necessary to replace any of the assigned personnel during the performance of the contract, the Contracting Officer shall be notified in advance.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 43 of 106

G.17 CONTRACTOR SUPERVISION The Contractor shall provide total supervision of its staff. Government personnel are not authorized or permitted to supervise any Contractor personnel. The Contractor's Program Manager(s) for this contract is/are: [Offeror fill in proposed personnel], who shall communicate with the COTR to determine the Government's work requirements as set forth in the Task Orders' Statements of Work and shall assure that these requirements are fulfilled. In the event the designated Program Manager(s) are incapacitated due to illness or injury or otherwise is to be removed by the Contractor during the contract performance, replacement of the incumbent Program Manager(s) shall be subject to the approval of the Contracting Officer. G.18 RESTRICTIONS AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT While working on Government premises, contractor employees shall conduct only business covered by this contract and shall not conduct any other business on Government premises. Contractor personnel shall abide by the normal rules and regulations applicable to the FHWA premises, including any applicable safety and security regulations. G.19 AGENCY TASK ORDER OMBUDSMAN

The Contracting Officer's selection decision on each Task Order request shall be final and is not subject to protest, except for a protest that the Task Order increases the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract. Accordingly, in accordance with FAR 16.505 (b) (5), an ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of contractor's concerns resulting from task order award. The existence of the ombudsman does not diminish the authority of the Contracting Officer. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of the proposals or the adjudication of formal contract disputes. Therefore, before consulting with the ombudsman, interested parties must first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the Contracting Officer for resolution. If the Contracting Officer cannot make resolution, interested parties may contact the FHWA ombudsman, Ms. Patricia Prosperi, at the following address: Ms. Patricia A. Prosperi Associate Administrator for Administration/Agency Competition Advocate HAD-1 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 E-mail: administration.fhwa@dot.gov

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 44 of 106

SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 SOURCE CODE FOR SOFTWARE

Delivery of all source code for software developed under this contract shall be in both electronic and paper form. Notwithstanding any other clause in this contract, the FHWA will have "unlimited rights", as that term is defined in FAR 27.401, in the software and source code delivered under this contract. As a result, the FHWA may modify and distribute the software and source code to the public, including employees of state departments of transportation, without restriction. H.2 NON-PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT

This contract is a non-personal services contract as defined in the FAR at subpart 37.101. It is understood and agreed that the Contractor and/or Contractor's employees and subcontractors: (1) shall perform the services specified herein as independent contractors, not as employees of the government; (2) shall be responsible for their own management and administration of the work required and bear sole responsibility for complying with any and all technical, schedule, or financial requirements or constraints attendant to the performance of this contract; (3) shall be free from supervision or control by any government employee with respect to the manner or method of performance of the services specified; but (4) shall, pursuant to the government's right and obligation to inspect, accept or reject the work, comply with such general direction of the Contracting Officer, or the duly authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, as is necessary to ensure accomplishment of the contract objectives. H.3 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The contractor and subcontractors shall not copyright any paper, reports, forms, software, or other materials which are first developed under and are a part of its work under this contract without written approval of the Contracting Officer, and all proprietary rights to materials first developed under this contract shall rest solely with the Government, with no compensation to the contractor or subcontractors beyond the payments made under this contract. Contractor and subcontractors agree that all copyright and patent right to materials, programs, reports, software, inventions and all other intellectual property developed under this contract shall be the property of the Government, and thereby assigns such reports and intellectual property to the Government. Upon completion or termination of this agreement, all reports prepared by the contractor or subcontractors, including all graphics, texts, and computer files, as instruments of service, shall become the property of the Government. In addition to the paragraph above, the term "contractor property" shall mean all preexisting materials, including, but not limited to, any products, software, materials and methodologies and processes related to contractor's or subcontractors' products or

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 45 of 106

services, all of which shall remain in the sole and exclusive property of the contractor or subcontractor or suppliers. Subject to receipt of payment in full and to the terms of this contract, contractor and subcontractor grants the Government a non-exclusive, perpetual license to use the contractor property contained in the deliverables provided hereunder for purposes of the contract. H.4 PROTECTION OF INFORMATION AND LIMITATION OF FUTURE CONTRACTING It is anticipated that in performance of this contract, the Contractor and Subcontractors may require access to, or receipt of, information and data relating to DOT/FHWA's plans, programs, technical requirements, and budgetary matters, and such other information, the disclosure of which may give competitive advantage to recipients or would be adverse to the interests of the Government. The Contractors and Subcontractors shall not disclose such information acquired to anyone, other than those Contractor, subcontractor, or consultant personnel performing work under this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer, until such time as the Government may have authorized the release of such information and data to the public. To the extent that the work under this contract requires access to proprietary, business confidential, or financial data of other companies, and as long as such data remains proprietary or confidential, the Contractor and Subcontractors shall protect such data from unauthorized use and disclosure and agrees not to use it to compete against such companies. It is anticipated that during performance of this contract, the Contractor and Subcontractors may be issued Task Orders involving technical evaluations of other Contractor's offers or products. FAR 9.505-3 provides that contracts shall not generally be awarded to a Contractor that would evaluate, or advise the Government concerning, its own products or activities, or those of a competitor, without proper safeguards to ensure objectivity and protect the Government's interests. These safeguards will be accomplished by restricting future contracting with the Government, as delineated below. FHWA will not unilaterally disclose to the Contractor and Subcontractors any proprietary information furnished by domestic or foreign participants in FHWA's programs. If the Contractor and Subcontractors requires access to such information in performance of this contract, an agreement concerning release and restrictions on the use of such data must be sought by the Contractor with the source of the data. It is agreed by the parties of this contract, that the Contractor and Subcontractors will be restricted in its future contracting with the Government, in the manner described below in this sub-section f. Except as specifically provided below in

a.

b.

c.

d.

e.

f.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 46 of 106

this sub-section f, the Contractor and Subcontractors shall be free to compete for FHWA business on an equal basis with other companies. If the Contractor and Subcontractors, under the terms of this contract, acquires or obtains information specified in paragraphs a or c of this section and if that information is not publicly available and could give the Contractor and Subcontractors a competitive advantage in subsequent procurements or would be adverse to the interests of the Government, then the Contractor and Subcontractors shall be ineligible to perform as a prime contractor, subcontractor or consultant, or in any capacity to any supplier under an ensuing Government contract. Further, if the Contractor and Subcontractors, under the terms of this contract, is required to develop specifications or a statement of work, or to develop materials leading directly, predictably or without delay to a statement of work to be used in the competitive procurement of a system or services, the Contractor and Subcontractors shall be ineligible to perform the work described within that solicitation as a prime contractor, subcontractor, consultant, or in any capacity to any supplier under an ensuing FHWA contract. Any questions on this matter shall be immediately addressed to the Contracting Officer. g. These restrictions do not limit the Contractor's and Subcontractors' right to use and disclose any information and data obtained from another source without restriction. The Contractor and Subcontractors agrees to train its employees who will have access to such sensitive information in all necessary security procedures and required them to sign non-disclosure statements and certificates attesting to their understanding of the requirements for safeguarding such information. Nondisclosure agreements will be required to be signed annually by contractors and subcontractors. In the event that the Contractor or Subcontractors fails to comply with this provision of the contract, the Government may terminate the contract for default. The Contractor shall include this provision, including this paragraph, in all subcontracts and consultant agreements for performance of work under this contract unless excused in writing by the Contracting Officer.

h.

i.

j.

H.5 DISSEMINATION OF CONTRACT INFORMATION The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the CO. One copy of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the COTR.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 47 of 106

H.6 QUALITY ASSURANCE STATEMENT The Federal Highway Administration provides high-quality information to serve Government, industry, and the public in a manner that promotes public understanding. Standards and policies are used to ensure and maximize the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of its information. FHWA periodically reviews quality issues and adjusts its programs and processes to ensure continuous quality improvement. H.7 SITE VISITS The FHWA, through its authorized representative, has the right at all reasonable times, to make site visits for the purpose of reviewing the project accomplishments and management control systems, and to provide technical assistance and guidance as may be required. If any site visit is made by the FHWA on the premises of the Contractor, a team member, or a subcontractor performing work under the contract, same will provide and will require their subcontractor(s) to provide all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safety and convenience of the FHWA and other Government representatives, in the performance of their duties. H.8 CONTRACTOR POLICY TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING a) Definitions. The following definitions are intended to be consistent with the definitions in DOT Order 3902.10 and the E.O. For clarification purposes, they may expand upon the definitions in the E.O. "Driving"(1) Means operating a motor vehicle on a roadway, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light, stop sign, or otherwise. (2) It does not include being in your vehicle (with or without the motor running) in a location off the roadway where it is safe and legal to remain stationary. "Text messaging" means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device, including for the purpose of short message service texting, e-mailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. (See definition in DOT Order 3902.10) (b) In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, October 1, 2009, and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, December 30, 2009, contractors and subcontractors are encouraged to: (1) Adopt and enforce workplace safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted drivers including policies to ban text messaging while driving-(i) Company-owned or -rented vehicles or Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles; or

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 48 of 106

(ii) Privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government. (2) Conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as(i) Establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving; and (ii) Education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts that exceed the micro-purchase threshold, other than subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items. (End of clause) H.9 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED OR ACQUIRED PROPERTY

Equipment provided by the Government or acquired by the Contractor for the performance of work under this contract shall be maintained and accounted for in accordance with the provisions of FAR Part 45. The following Government furnished or Contractor acquired property is provided to the Contractor for performance under this contract, and shall be accounted for as provided in 1252.245-70, below: [Property to be designated as necessary in individual Task Orders] H.10 CONTROL AND DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS

The Contractor shall comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations 29 CFR Parts 1910 and 1926. Attention is directed to the control of hazardous material, Section 1910.1200 of the OSHA regulations and the Environmental Protection Agency regulations concerning the disposal of hazardous waste [Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resources Conservation Act of 1976, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.)]. H.11 RECORDS MANAGEMENT

The Contractor shall comply with all Federal and DOT records management regulations regarding Federal recordkeeping requirements including the creation, maintenance and use, and disposition of records in all media (paper, electronic, audiovisual, Web sites, etc.). Federal requirements can be located in Title 44, United States Code (USC), Chapter 31, at http://www.archives.gov/about/laws/fed-agencies.html, 44 USC Chapter 33 at

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 49 of 106

http://www.archives.gov/about/laws/disposal-of-records.html, and Title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Subchapter B, at http://www.archives.gov/about/regulations/subchapter/b.html. DOT requirements can be located in DOT Order 1350.2, Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM), at http://cio.ost.dot.gov/portal/site/cio/dirmm/, particularly Chapter 9, Departmental Records Management Program, at http://cio.ost.dot.gov/DOT/OST/Documents/files/chapter9.doc. H.12 PROPRIETARY RIGHTS IN REPORTS

All property rights, including publication rights, in progress reports and final reports produced by the Contractor in connection with this contract provided for hereunder shall rest in the Government. H.13 LIABILITY

The Government cannot indemnify the Contractor or its subcontractor(s) from liability as a result of the performance of work under this contract. Therefore, the Contractor is required to obtain adequate property, vehicle and liability insurance during the entire period of performance, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the clause at FAR 52.228-7, which is incorporated into this contract in Section I. Evidence of such insurance must be submitted to the Contracting Officer as a condition of award. H.14 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF SUPPORT AND DISCLAIMER

An acknowledgment of FHWA support and a disclaimer must appear in any publication of any material, whether copyrighted or not, based on or developed under this contract in the following terms: "This material is based upon work supported by the Federal Highway Administration under contract number DTFH61-10-D-_____." Additionally, all materials must contain the following statement:
"Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Highway Administration."

H.15

REPRINTS OF PUBLICATIONS

At such time that any article resulting from work under this contract is published, two reprints of the publication shall be sent to the COTR, clearly referencing this contract number and any other appropriate handling information. Written notification shall also be provided to the Contracting Officer.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 50 of 106

H.16

TASK ORDER PROPOSAL PREPARATION COSTS

This contract does not include a separate administrative task order to cover the costs of proposing on Task Orders. Contractors are to handle such costs in accordance with their disclosure statements/cost accounting system.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 51 of 106

PART II
SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 PRINTING RESTRICTIONS

All printing funded by this contract must be done in conformance with Joint Committee on Printing regulations as prescribed in Title 44, United States Code, and Section 308 of Public Law 101-163, and all applicable Government Printing Office and Department of Transportation regulations. I.2 52.215-19 1997) NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT

(a)

The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing: (1) When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) within 30 days. The Contractor shall also notify the ACO within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership.

(2)

(b)

The Contractor shall (1) Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs; Provide the ACO or designated representative ready access to the records upon request; Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor's ownership changes; and Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).

(2)

(3)

(4)

(c)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 52 of 106

I.3 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days of the contract expiration date; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months (5 years). (End of Clause) I.4 52.216-18 Ordering (OCT 1995)

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from effective date of the contract through contract expiration. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of Clause) I.5 52.216-19 Order Limitations (OCT 1995)

(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than ____TBD______ [insert dollar figure or quantity], the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor -(1) Any order for a single item in excess of ____TBD______ [insert dollar figure or quantity] ;

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 53 of 106

(2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of ____TBD______ [insert dollar figure or quantity]; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within ____TBD______ days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within _TBD_ days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of Clause) I.6 52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity (OCT 1995)

(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _____TBD______ [insert date].

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 54 of 106

(End of Clause) I.7 TAR 1252.237-70 QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (DEVIATION) (MAY 2005) - Alternate 1 (October 2005). a. Definitions. As used in this clause- "Sensitive Information" is any information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss, or misuse, or is proprietary data, could adversely affect the national interest, the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy of individuals specified in The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, but has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. b. Work under this contract may involve access to DOT facilities, sensitive information or resources (e.g., computer systems). To protect sensitive information, which shall not be disclosed by the Contractor unless authorized in writing by the contracting officer, the Contractor shall provide training to any Contractor employees authorized to access sensitive information, and upon request of the Government, provide information to assist the Government in determining an individual's suitability to have authorization. c. The Contracting Officer may require dismissal from work those employees deemed incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable, or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security. d. Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms, as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or Project/Program manager (PM) request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. e. The Contractor shall ensure that Contractor employees are citizens of the United States of America or aliens who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services documentation; and f. The Contractor shall immediately notify the COTR or PM when an employee's status changes (e.g., employee's transfer, completion of a project, retirement, or termination of employment) that may affect the employee's eligibility for access to the facility, sensitive information, or resources. g. To ensure the requirements of FIPS 201, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors, are met, the Contractor shall:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 55 of 106

1. Provide a listing of personnel for whom an identification (ID) card is requested to the COTR or PM who will provide a copy of the listing to the card issuing office. This may include Contractor and Subcontractor personnel. Follow issuing office directions for submittal of an application package(s). 2. While visiting or performing work on a DOT facility, as specified by the issuing office, PM or COTR, ensure that Contractor employees prominently display their identification card. 3. Promptly deliver to the issuing office: (1) all ID cards assigned to an employee who no longer requires access to the facility; and (2) all expired ID cards within five (5) days of their expiration or all cards at time of contract termination, whichever occurs first. 4. Immediately report any lost or stolen ID cards to the issuing office and follow their instructions. h. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the Subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources. i. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment. (End of clause) I.8 TAR 1252.239-70 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (APR 2005) The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology security for all systems connected to a Department of Transportation (DOT) network or operated by the Contractor for DOT, regardless of location. This clause is applicable to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services in which the Contractor has physical or electronic access to DOT's sensitive information that directly supports the mission of DOT. The term "information technology", as used in this clause, means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, including telecommunications equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes both major applications and general support systems as defined by OMB Circular A-130. Examples of tasks that require security provisions include: (1) Hosting of DOT e-Government sites or other IT operations; (2) Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DOT with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and

(a)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 56 of 106

(3) Access to DOT general support systems/major applications at a level beyond that granted the general public, e.g. bypassing a firewall. (b) The Contractor shall develop, provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract. The plan shall describe those parts of the contract to which this clause applies. The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with applicable Federal Laws that include, but are not limited to, 40 U.S.C. 11331, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 and the E-Government Act of 2002. The plan shall meet IT security requirements in accordance with Federal and DOT policies and procedures, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract that include, but are not limited to: (1) OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources; (2) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Guidelines; (3) Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM) and associated guidelines; and (4) DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. (c) Within 30 days after contract award, the Contractor shall submit the IT Security Plan to the DOT Contracting Officer for acceptance. This plan shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the Offeror's proposal or sealed bid that resulted in the award of this contract and in compliance with the requirements stated in this clause. The plan, as accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The Contractor shall comply with the accepted plan. Within 6 months after contract award, the Contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to the DOT for acceptance by the DOT Contracting Officer. Such written proof may be furnished either by the Contractor or by a third party. Accreditation must be in accordance with DOT Order 1350.2, which is available from the Contracting Officer upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document, and shall include a final security plan, a risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery/continuity of operations plan. The Contractor shall comply with the accepted accreditation documentation. On an annual basis, the Contractor shall submit verification to the Contracting Officer that the IT Security Plan remains valid.

(d)

(e)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 57 of 106

(f)

The Contractor will ensure that the following banners are displayed on all DOT systems (both public and private) operated by the Contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: Government Warning **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING** Unauthorized access is a violation of U.S. Law and Department of Transportation policy, and may result in criminal or administrative penalties. Users shall not access other user's or system files without proper authority. Absence of access controls IS NOT authorization for access! DOT information systems and related equipment are intended for communication, transmission, processing and storage of U.S. Government information. These systems and equipment are subject to monitoring by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Monitoring may result in the acquisition, recording, and analysis of all data being communicated, transmitted, processed or stored in this system by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Use of this system constitutes consent to such monitoring. **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING**

(g)

The Contractor will ensure that the following banner is displayed on all DOT systems that contain Privacy Act information operated by the Contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: This system contains information protected under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-579). Any privacy information displayed on the screen or printed shall be protected from unauthorized disclosure. Employees who violate privacy safeguards may be subject to disciplinary actions, a fine of up to $5,000, or both.

(h)

Contractor personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by the Contractor for DOT or interconnected to a DOT network shall be screened at an appropriate level in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management, as it may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract. The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, in performance of the contract performing under this contract, receive annual IT security training in accordance with OMB Circular A-130, FISMA, and NIST requirements, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract, with a specific emphasis on rules of behavior. The Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor's and subcontractors' facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases and personnel used in performance of the contract. Access shall be provided to the extent

(i)

(j)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 58 of 106

required to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability testing), investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability and confidentiality of DOT data or to the function of information technology systems operated on behalf of DOT, and to preserve evidence of computer crime. (k) The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts that meet the conditions in paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer when an employee terminates employment that has access to DOT information systems or data. (End of clause) I.9 TAR 1252.245-70 (a) GOVERNMENT PROPERTY REPORTS (OCT 1994)

(l)

The Contractor shall prepare an annual report of Government property in its possession and the possession of its Subcontractors. The report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer not later than September 15 of each calendar year on Form DOT F 4220.43, Contractor Report of Government Property. (End of Clause)

(b)

I.10

52.252-2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.acquisition.gov/far/ for Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR clauses, and for Administration (GSA) Site of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)); http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60/tamtar/tar.htm (the Official DOT Site of the Transportation Acquisition Regulations (TAR)) clauses. (End of Clause) I. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) Definitions (JUL 2004) Gratuities (APR 1984) Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984) Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006)

52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 59 of 106

52.203-7 52.203-8

Anti-Kickback Procedures (JUL 1995) Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (SEP 2007) Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (DEC 2008) Display of Hotline Poster(s) (DEC 2007) Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (AUG 2000) Central Contractor Registration (APR 2008) Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (SEP 2007) Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (JULY 2010) Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (SEP 2006) Updates of Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (APR 2010) Audit and Records - Negotiation (JUN 1999) Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997) Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997) Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997) Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (OCT 2004) Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions (JUL 2005) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data ­ Modifications (OCT 1997) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges (OCT 2009)

52.203-10 52.203-12

52.203-13 52.203-14 52.204-4 52.204-7 52.204-9 52.204-10

52.209-6

52.209-8 52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-10 52.215-12 52.215-15 52.215-18

52.215-21

52.215-23

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 60 of 106

52.216-7

Allowable Cost and Payment (DEC 2002) The designated payment office will make interim payments for contract financing on the "30th" day after the designated billing office receives a proper payment request. Fixed Fee (MAR 1997) Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999) Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JUL 2005) Note: The factor in paragraph (b) is 10 percent. If the Offeror elects to waive the price evaluation adjustment check this box [ ].

52.216-8 52.217-8 52.219-4

52.219-8 52.219-9 52.219-16 52.219-28 52.222-2 52.222-3 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-35

Utilization of Small Business Concerns (MAY 2004) Small Business Subcontracting Plan (APR 2008) Alternate II (OCT 2001) Liquidated Damages-Subcontracting Plan (JAN 1999) Post-Award Small Business Program Re-representation (APR 2009) Payment for Overtime Premiums (JUL 1990)
Paragraph (a) insert "$0"

Convict Labor (JUN 2003) Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999) Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 1998) Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) Compliance With Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements (DEC

52.222-36 52.222-37

52.222-38 2001) 52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 61 of 106

52.222-54 52.223-5 52.223-6 52.225-13 52.223-14 52.224-1 52.224-2 52.225-13 52.227-1 52.227-2 2007) 52.227-3 52.227-14 52.227-16 52.228-7 52.229-3 52.230-2 52.230-3 52.230-6 52.232-1 52.232-9 52.232-17 52.232-22 52.232-23

Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009) Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information. (AUG 2003) Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) Toxic Chemical Release Reporting (AUG 2003) Privacy Act Notification (APR 1984) Privacy Act (APR 1984) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) - Alternate I (APR 1984) Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC

Patent Indemnity (APR 1984) Rights in Data - General (DEC 2007) Additional Data Requirements (JUN 1987) Insurance - Liability to Third Persons (MAR 1996) Federal, State, and Local Taxes. (APR 2003) Cost Accounting Standards (OCT 2008) Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices (OCT 2008) Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (APR 2005) Payments (APR 1984)

Limitation on Withholding of Payments (APR 1984) Interest (OCT 2008) Limitation of Funds (APR 1984) Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 62 of 106

52.232-25 52.232-33

Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) - Alt I (FEB 2002) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003) Disputes (JUL 2002) Protest after Award (AUG 1996) - Alternate I (JUN 1985) Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (APR 1984) Penalties for Unallowable Costs (MAY 2001) Certification of Final Indirect Costs (JAN 1997) Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) Changes ­ Fixed Price (Aug 1987) ­ Alternate III (APR 1984) Changes - Cost-Reimbursement (Aug 1987) ­ Alternate I (APR 1984) Notification of Changes (APR 1984) Subcontracts - Alternate I (JUN 2007) Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996) Subcontracts for Commercial Items (FEB 2009) Government Property (JUN 2007) Use and Charges (JUN 2007) Limitation of Liability- Services (FEB 1997) Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (MAY 2004) Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (MAY 2004) Default (Fixed Price Supply and Service) (APR 1984) Excusable Delays (APR 1984)

52.233-1 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.242-1 52.242-3 52.242-4 52.242-13 52.243-1 52.243-2 52.243-7 52.244-2 52.244-5 52.244-6 52.245-1 52.245-9 52.246-25 52.249-2

52.249-6 52.249-8 52.249-14

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 63 of 106

52.251-1 52.252-6 52.253-1 II.

Government Supply Sources (APR 1984) Authorized Deviations in Clauses (APR 1984) Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CHAPTER 12) CLAUSES

1252.223-71 Accident and fire reporting (APR 2005) 1252.223-73 Seat belt use policies and programs 1252.242-71 Contractor Testimony (OCT 1994) 1252.242-72 Dissemination of Contract Information (OCT 1994) 1252.242-73 Contracting officer's technical representative. (OCT 1994) (APR 2005)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 64 of 106

PART III
SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8.

FHWA Billing Instructions for Cost Reimbursement Contracts - 4 pages Instructions for Completing the Public Voucher SF 1034 ­ 1 page Form OF-17 "Notice to Offeror" - 1 page Past Performance Questionnaire - 3 pages DOT Form 4220.44, Contract Pricing Summary and Instructions - 3 pages Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities - 2 pages Labor Categories and Position Descriptions ­ 15 pages Estimated Level of Effort and ODC/Travel Estimates ­ Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet with 7 worksheets of data. Pre-proposal Webinar Anticipated Questions and Answers ­ 1 page

9.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 65 of 106

PART IV
SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS

K. 1. 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (FEB 2009) (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541990, All Other Professional, Scientific and Technical Services. (2) The small business size standard is $7 Million. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $100,000.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 66 of 106

(iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (vi) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (vii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. (ix) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (x) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xi) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA­designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 67 of 106

(xiv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA­designated items. (xv) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvi) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (xvii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xviii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification. (xix) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-- (A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. (2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (i) 52.219-19, Small Business Concern Representation for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. __ (ii) 52.219-21, Small Business Size Representation for Targeted Industry Categories Under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. __ (iii) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. __ (A) Basic. __ (B) Alternate I. __ (iv) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. __ (v) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. __ (vi) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services­Certification.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 68 of 106

__ (vii) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Products (Alternate I only). __ (viii) 52.223-13, Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting. __ (ix) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. __ (A) Basic. __(B) Alternate I. __ (x) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR CLAUSE # CHANGE ____________ ____________ ____________ TITLE DATE

____________ ____________ ____________

_________ _________ _________

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of provision)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 69 of 106

SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS (Please show the RFP number and closing date on the OUTSIDE of the forwarding envelope.) L.1 IMPORTANT DELIVERY INFORMATION

Please note that the Department of Transportation (DOT)/Federal Highway Administration, Office of Acquisition Management's current location and delivery address is: 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Room: E65-101 ­ Mail Code: HAAM-30 Washington, DC 20590 NOTE: Security procedures prohibit non-uniformed couriers from delivering material directly to offices in the DOT building. Only uniformed couriers from FedEx and the United Parcel Service, who are dressed in a uniform bearing their organization's name and possessing official identification, may deliver proposals or sealed bids directly to the Office of Acquisition Management. Other couriers and individuals must deliver material to the mail room/visitor's center at the new DOT building's main entrance at 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE. The guard may accept the material, dismiss the courier, and then the material will be examined and x-rayed prior to being delivered to the FHWA Office of Acquisition Management through the normal building mail delivery procedures. This could add one or more working days to the delivery time. FHWA is not responsible for pick-up of offerors' proposals from DOT security guards nor from the DOT mail room. Offerors must make allowances for these procedures in order to assure that offers arrive on time. Bids/offers must be received in the Office of Acquisition Management by the time and due date specified herein to be considered timely and acceptable; not just delivered to the mail room/visitor's center. Bids/offers received and time/date stamped in the Office of Acquisition Management after the specified due date and time will be considered as late, in accordance with FAR 14.302, and 15.208. Please be advised that all of our mail (items handled by the U.S. Postal Service) is sent out of town for scanning and irradiation prior to delivery to the building. This process can add several days to your mailing time, even from local addresses. L.2 FORMAT FOR QUESTIONS

Each prospective offeror e-mailing questions to Ms. Johnson should attempt to state each question in such a way that the offeror would have no objection to the FHWA's publishing that precise question (and its answer) in a formal Amendment to the RFP, on the Electronic Posting System (EPS). That is, each prospective offeror should attempt to word each question in such a way that the publication of that question (and its answer) on

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 70 of 106

the EPS would not divulge any information that the prospective offeror considers to be proprietary or confidential. Please direct all questions to Ms. Jennifer Johnson at email Jennifer.Johnson@dot.gov or phone number (202) 366-0904. L.3 ELECTRONIC DISSEMINATION OF RFP DOCUMENTS

This RFP is being transmitted electronically. Offerors are reminded that if you download copies of this or any other solicitation you will NOT automatically receive amendments to those solicitations. It is your responsibility to check back frequently to the download source to see if any amendments have been issued to solicitations you have downloaded. All amendments will be posted to, and downloadable from www.fbo.gov. L.4 PRE-PROPOSAL WEB BRIEFINGS

A pre-proposal webinar will be held after the solicitation has been announced and after the RFP has been released. The pre-proposal webinar is scheduled for Wednesday, July 28, 2010, beginning promptly at 3:30pm until 5:00pm Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). There will be 75 individual connections available on the webinar and controlled teleconference; therefore, if several individuals from one firm elect to participate in the pre-proposal webinar, then the Government requests that each participating firm make attempts to utilize conference call/speaker phone capability and call-in using a minimal number of lines. If the number of individuals interested in participating exceeds the maximum number of available lines, then a second date will be scheduled for another pre-proposal webinar session. All parties interested in participating may register for the pre-proposal webinar at the following address: http://www.nhi.fhwa.dot.gov/resources/webconference/web_conf_learner_reg.aspx?webconf id=20803. No additional registration information will be disseminated among the registered webinar participants. All interested participants are encouraged to submit questions about this solicitation directly to the Contract Specialist, Ms. Jennifer Johnson, at Jennifer.Johnson@dot.gov no later than Monday, July 26, 2010 at 5:00pm (EDT). The Government has prepared a list of questions and answers anticipated to be posed regarding this solicitation during the pre-proposal webinar. (See Section J, Attachment No. 9). L.5 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRES

Offerors are responsible for submitting customer-completed Past Performance Questionnaires with their proposal as described below in this Section L. (See Section J, Attachment No. 4). L.6 PROCUREMENT INTEGRITY ACT

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 71 of 106

With respect to The Procurement Integrity Act requirements regarding proprietary information, your attention is directed to FAR 3.104-4(j)(1), (2) and (3), for the definition of "proprietary information" and a discussion of the marking of such information (also see provision 52.215-1), and to FAR 3.104-5 for a discussion of the disclosure of that information. L.7 FACSIMILE SUBMITTALS

Facsimile bids/proposals will not be considered for this solicitation. L.8 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION

All Contractors desiring to receive awards of DOT contracts, purchase orders, delivery orders, or other contractual vehicles must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database before receiving an award, and throughout the contract's period of performance. The CCR is a Department of Defense web-based repository of Contractor information. Interested Offerors should read and understand the requirements of FAR 52.204-7. The Offeror must register in the CCR prior to receiving any DOT contract awards, and must maintain current, updated information in CCR throughout the performance period of the contract. The Electronic Funds Transfer information in the CCR must be accurate in order for Contractors' invoices or contract financing requests to be considered proper invoices for the purpose of prompt payment under DOT contracts. Offerors can register in CCR at any time and are encouraged to do so immediately. Offerors may register in the CCR database and obtain additional information at http://www.ccr.gov, or by calling 1-888-227-2423. The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR, and for any liability resulting from the DOT's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor must confirm on an annual basis that its information in the database is accurate and complete. *****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS*********** Recently, current U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Contractors and potential Contractors have received fraudulent letters purporting to be issued by DOT. These fraudulent letters request that current or potential Contractors register in the DOD Central Contractor Registration System (CCR). If you receive such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the facsimile number cited in the letter. Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system. However, to register, Contractors should go directly through the CCR website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 72 of 106

information on how to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/ or call 1-888-227-2423. L.9 1252.239-71 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY PLAN AND ACCREDITATION (APR 2005) All offers submitted in response to this solicitation must address the approach for completing the security plan and accreditation requirements in TAR clause 1252.239-70. (End of provision)

L.10 a.

POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE Contractor Performance Evaluations

Interim and final evaluations of Contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.15 (or FAR 36.201 for construction, or FAR 36.604 for Architect-Engineering). The final performance evaluations will be prepared at the time of completion of work. Interim and final evaluations will be provided to the Contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. The Contractor can elect to review the evaluation and submit additional information or a rebuttal statement. The Contractor will be permitted thirty days to respond. Contractor response is voluntary and is not mandatory. Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual at a level above the CO, whose decision is final. Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions. (b) Electronic Access to Contractor Performance Evaluations

FAR 42.15 (or FAR 36.201 for construction, or FAR 36.604 for architect-engineering) requires agencies to prepare interim and final evaluations of Contractor performance. The U.S. Department of Transportation utilizes the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Contractor Performance System (CPS) to record and maintain past performance information. Contractors that have Internet capability may access evaluations through a secure Web site for review and comment by completing the registration form that can be obtained at the following URL: https://cpscontractor.nih.gov /. The registration process requires the Contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact and who will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment. In addition, the Contractor will be required to identify a secondary contact who will be responsible for notifying the cognizant contracting official in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time period. Once the Contractor is registered and a performance evaluation has been prepared and is ready for comment, the CPS will send an email to the Contractor representative notifying that individual that a performance evaluation is electronically available for review and comment. L.11 52.215-16 Facilities Capital Cost of Money (JUNE 2003)

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 73 of 106

(a) Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the criteria for allowability in FAR 31.205-10(b) are met. One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer. (b) If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. (End of Provision) L.12 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government intends to award a hybrid, Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contract (with both Firm-Fixed price and Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee task orders) as a result of this solicitation. The Government anticipates that multiple contracts may be awarded as a result of this solicitation. L.13 L.14 THIS REQUIREMENT IS FULL AND OPEN TO ALL SOURCES. LATE SUBMISSIONS

The Government will process late submissions of proposals in accordance with FAR 52.215-1. If a proposal is received late and is not eligible for consideration, then the Government will reject that proposal without evaluation. L.15 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS NOTE: For proposal preparation purposes, the Offeror should assume an estimated award date of December 15, 2010. NOTE: The Offeror should indicate under Volume I of the proposal the name(s) and title(s) of the person(s) who actually wrote the proposal and his/her relationship to the offering company. NOTE: The Government's evaluation criteria are delineated in Section M, herein. Offerors are advised to carefully review Section M in preparing their proposal submissions. Responses submitted for this Request for Proposals (RFP) must adhere to the format and content instructions set forth below. These instructions have been specifically tailored to the process and the evaluation criteria to be applied during proposal evaluation. Failure to submit any of the information requested by this RFP may be cause for unfavorable consideration. Any inconsistencies between the various sections of an Offeror's response must be fully explained. A significant inconsistency, if unexplained, may raise a fundamental question of the Offeror's understanding of the work required, and ability to perform the contract.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 74 of 106

The Offeror's response should demonstrate its understanding of this procurement and capability for performance in a concise, logical, manner and should not contain superfluous material which is not directly related to this procurement. This RFP is written in the Uniform Contract Format described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) section 15.204-1. Offerors are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the Uniform Contract Format. This will facilitate their understanding of the terms and conditions of this solicitation, the instructions which follow, and the source selection process. The Government advises prospective Offerors to read the terms and conditions of the model contract carefully and to refer any questions of interpretation to the Contracting Officer in writing sufficiently before the deadline for the receipt of proposals. The following document is incorporated by reference: "Guidelines for Preparing Federal Highway Administration Publications". (FHWQ-AD-88-001), dated January 1988, and Change 1 dated May 20, 1994. It may be reviewed at the following location: http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/orders/h17104.htm. Until a formal notice of award is issued, no communication by the Government either written or oral shall be interpreted as a promise that an award will be made. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government to the expenditure of public funds. No cost chargeable to the proposed contract can be incurred before receipt of a fully executed contract or specific written authorization from the Contracting Officer. L.16 PROCEDURE

The FHWA will award this contract using a selection procedure consisting of three stages. 1. Phase I: The Government will evaluate each offeror's written proposal (all volumes) for responsiveness to proposal specifications. Based on an examination of the pertinent information set forth within each offeror's initially-submitted written "Volume I ­ Relevant Technical Capabilities" proposal, the Government will evaluate each offeror's proposed approach for: ˇ The offeror's ability to provide technical assistance in the required technical, functional, and situational competencies in accordance with Selection Factor B1 as set forth below in Section M of this Solicitation

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 75 of 106

ˇ ˇ ˇ

The offeror's proposed staff member's qualifications and experience in accordance with Selection Factor B2 as set forth below in Section M of this Solicitation The offer's understanding of and approach to technical services support for ITS research programs in accordance with Selection Factor B3 as set forth below in Section M of this Solicitation The offer's proposed approach to management, start-up, and transition in accordance with Selection Factor B4 as set forth below in Section M of this Solicitation

In this same phase, the Government will evaluate each offeror's Past Performance/Experience and each offeror's Subcontracting Plans in accordance with Selection Factors C and D as set forth below in Section M. The Government will combine the results of the initial evaluations performed under Selection Factors A1, B1, B2, B3, B4, C, and D to arrive at an overall evaluation for each offeror. The Government will next examine each offeror's price in accordance with Selection Factor E as set forth in Section M of this solicitation. The Government will then establish a competitive range. 2. Phase II: (Optional: The Government Reserves the Right to Award a Contract Without Discussions): The Government reserves the right to award the contract(s), without discussion, to the most competitive offeror(s) ­ without oral presentations or discussions. It is therefore imperative that each offeror's initially-submitted written proposal present the offeror's best terms and be thoroughly documented. 4. Phase III: If and only if the Government decides to hold discussions, then the Government may invite the offerors within the Phase I competitive range to provide an oral presentation to the Government's evaluation panel. The specifics (scheduling, content, etc.) of such potential oral presentations are described below in this Section L. If the Government requests oral presentations, the Government will evaluate each offeror's oral presentation, based on the defined evaluation criteria, as set forth below in Section M of this solicitation. L.17 PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL LOCATION

The Phase I proposal (original and 14 copies) shall be submitted to the following address by the time and due date specified on page 1 of this RFP. Mailing Address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Room E65-101, Routing Code HAAM-30 Washington, DC 20590 Attn: Jennifer Johnson, (202) 366-0904

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 76 of 106

In addition, offerors are required to submit the proposal electronically. The electronic copy shall be submitted via a single email to Jennifer.Johnson@dot.gov, with each volume consisting of a distinct email attachment. The total size of the email should not exceed 5 Megabytes. Please do not "zip" or otherwise compress files. Please do not send CDs or DVDs. L. 18 FORMAT FOR WRITTEN PROPOSAL All offerors shall submit the following: (1) RFP Section A, Executed Standard Form 33 and RFP, Section K. Blocks 12 through 18 of Standard Form 33 must be filled in as appropriate, signed, and returned with the offer. Section K of this RFP, "Representations, Certifications, and Acknowledgements," must be filled out, signed by an authorized organizational representative, and returned as part of your proposal. Submit one hard original and 14 hard copies of the materials specified in this subsection (1), and these materials may be placed within Volume II of the proposal. Each offeror must submit one complete hard original, 14 complete hard copies (each hard copy must include the cover letter), and one complete electronic copy of the proposal. The proposal shall be broken out into the volumes and parts described below. Volume I ­ "Relevant Technical Capabilities". Volume I shall consist of the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Executed Standard Form 33 Proposal cover letter "Part I ­ Staffing, Subcontracting and Compliance" "Part II - Relevant Technical Capabilities and Approach" "Part III ­ Past Performance" "Part IV ­ Experience" Subcontracting Plans

(2)

All materials comprising Volume I shall be bound together. Volume II ­ "Business and Cost/Price Proposal". Volume II shall be bound separately from Volume I. The offeror may place its completed Representations and Certifications (Section K) in Volume II. DO NOT place any past performance information, any experience descriptions, any resumes, executed Standard Form 33, RFP, Section K, or any Subcontracting Plans in Volume II.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 77 of 106

Page Limitations ˇ Volume I - the combined total page count shall not exceed 200 pages. The 200-page limit includes all resumes. The 200-page limit also includes all letters, figures, tables, title pages, appendices and other ancillary materials. o Part I - no limit on the number of pages that any particular resume may contain o Part II - no more than 35 pages including all letters, figures, tables, title pages, appendices and other ancillary materials. Any narrative or prepared material that exceeds the 35 page limit will not be considered by the staff who evaluate the submitted proposals. All pages in Part II must be numbered. o Part III ­ The offeror shall submit no more than 15 related contract/subcontract past performance descriptions ranked and numbered from 1 to 15, with #1 being most relevant. Each description shall not exceed 3 pages each for a total maximum page count of 45 pages. Completed Past Performance Questionnaires do not count against this page limit. o Part IV ­ The offeror shall submit no more than 10 related contract/subcontract experience descriptions (not to be confused with Past Performance Questionnaires which are part of Volume II) ranked and numbered from 1 to 10, with #1 being most relevant. Each description shall not exceed 3 pages each for a total maximum page count of 30 pages. ˇ Volume II- no page limitations Note: It is requested (but it is not required) that all binding be in the form of a plastic spiral binder at the left margin. Do not use paper clips or staples as binding. Font, graphic, page, and formatting specifications Volume I Each double-sided page shall count as two pages for purposes of the page limitations noted above and in this paragraph. The Past Performance Questionnaires should not be included inside Volume I, and will not count in the page count. Except as stated below in this paragraph, Volume I shall be presented in 12 point font or larger. Subject to the exception stated in the next sentence, the dimensions of each page in Volume I shall be no greater than 8 ˝ inches by 11 inches. Up to 20 of the 200 maximum pages in Volume I may be "fold-out" pages having dimensions not exceeding 11 inches by 24 inches---provided that any such fold-out pages are bound into Volume I and are folded down to a size not exceeding 11 inches by 8 ˝ inches. Footnotes, legends, or labels associated with tables or diagrams, and other information which is ancillary to the main text, may be presented in a font size smaller than twelve point font---provided that any such smaller font is fully legible. Resumes are not considered ancillary material, and must therefore

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 78 of 106

be presented in 12 point font or larger. Resumes may not be presented on fold-out pages. If----in order to place its entire Master Staffing Table on just one page (probably a fold-out page)----an offeror needs to use a font size smaller than 12 point, then the offeror may do so, provided that the font size used on the Master Staffing Table is fully legible. Volume II There is no prescribed minimum font size for Volume II, but all material presented therein must be fully legible. An offeror may use in Volume II as many fold-out pages of any dimensions as the offeror chooses, provided that each fold-out page is bound into Volume II and is folded down to a size not exceeding 11 inches by 8 ˝ inches. Experience descriptions and completed Past Performance Questionnaires shall be provided only for work that was performed in a significant way by key personnel who are being proposed to SERVE on this particular ITS Technical Support Services project. Names and the Roles of those being proposed to serve on this particular project shall be identified on each experience description and on each Past Performance Questionnaire submitted in the proposal. The role of the person who worked on the Past Performance shall be clearly indicated in the write-up. L.19 VOLUME I ­ RELEVANT TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES

PART I ­ Relevant Technical Capabilities Proposal A. Provide a Table of Key Personnel and Their Other Commitments Provide resumes and a table showing the names of all proposed Key Personnel. For purposes of constructing that required table, the term "Key Personnel" shall include the: ˇ ˇ ˇ Program Executive Deputy Program Manager Principal Investigators (seven resumes are required for different types of ITS skill sets)

For description of each of these positions see Attachment 7. For each such individual, show the following, in that table: the name of the individual's employer; the position that the individual is proposed to occupy on this particular project; the project name and the contract number of every other project (Federal and non-Federal) on which the individual is currently committed to serve at any time during the period beginning on December 15, 2010 and ending on December 14, 2015; and, the number of hours that the individual is estimated to serve on each such "other project" in each year of that period (i. e.,; December 15, 2010 and ending on December 14, 2011, December 15, 2011 and ending on December 14, 2012; etc.). For purposes of this required table, an individual is "committed" to serve on only those "other projects" for which there is already in existence a signed contract, a signed task order, or some other mutually-binding written agreement. In other words, this table need not show "other projects" that are merely in the bidding phase and are not yet awarded.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 79 of 106

B. Provide Resumes for Other than Key Personnel Resumes shall be submitted for each of the remaining proposed labor category as identified in Attachment 7----except that no resume is required for any administrative support personnel. Each resume shall clearly identify and describe the individual's related project experience and education as it relates to the performance of this contract and the position descriptions that are included in Attachment 7. The firm that the personnel work for should also be clearly identified. C. Provide a Master Staffing Capabilities Matrix Each offeror shall provide a Master Staffing Capabilities Matrix that crosswalk the personnel listed in the resumes to the competencies areas and tasks as presented in Section C tables presented in 2. Supplementing the Skills and Experience of the ITS Program Managers. A rating of how strong each of the personnel is related to the competency area/tasks should be provided using the following scale. Rating of 4 = World-class ITS expertise that is a true leader in the field and well recognized in the industry has worked in the competency area/task. = Senior person in the ITS field with recent and relevant experience that has worked in the competency area/task who has played a major leadership role in such efforts and has a long history of working in the ITS field. = Mid-level ITS expertise in the industry that has worked in the competency area/task with strong expertise, that is both recent and relevant, and has worked on five similar projects previously. = Junior level personnel with some expertise in the ITS field that has worked in the competency area/task and has worked on three similar projects previously. = Personnel either do not have experience in this area or the experience is less than required as related to the individual task (i.e., less than three similar projects)

Rating of 3

Rating of 2

Rating of 1

Rating of 0

The Master Staffing Capabilities Matrix must be a comprehensive one which covers not only the prime offeror's proposed internal staffing, but also the staffing proposed for each separate subcontractor and consultant. Resumes must support the ratings given in this matrix so that the ratings are substantiated and validated. It is requested----but it is not required----that the entire Master Staffing Capabilities Matrix be presented on just one page; that page can be one of the fold-out pages allowed above. Recall that under the circumstances specified above in "Page and Size Limits for Volume I", an offeror might qualify for using, in the Master Staffing

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 80 of 106

Capabilities Matrix, a font size smaller than 12-point. Technical Competencies: Offerors are encouraged to develop a matrix similar to the one depicted below to describe their level of proficiency in each area. Offerors are encouraged to provide the equivalent staff months of experience their proposed staff possesses in each particular area.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 81 of 106

Technical Expertise

Technical Assessments

Project / Program Management

Evaluation

Technical Competency Expertise Comprehensive Technical Support to the ITS Program

Technical Support for IV&V Efforts Technical Assistance to DOT to provide assistance to other public agencies

Professional Capacity Building Advanced Research Support

Support and Assistance for ITS Technical Tools Research Evaluation Technical Assistance

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 82 of 106

Functional Competencies: Offerors are encouraged to develop a matrix similar to the one depicted below to describe their level of proficiency in each area. Offerors are encouraged to provide the equivalent staff months of experience their proposed staff possesses in each particular area.
Project / Program Management Evaluation

Functional Competency Expertise Program Management Activities Start-up Activities Transition After Start-up Technical Project Management and Coordination Systems Engineering Support Policy and Legal Analysis

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 83 of 106

Situational Competencies: Offerors are encouraged to develop a matrix similar to the one depicted below to describe their level of proficiency in each area. Offerors are encouraged to provide the equivalent staff months of experience their proposed staff possesses in each particular area.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 84 of 106

Technical Expertise

Technical Assessments

Project Program Management

Evaluation

Situational Competency Expertise Technology Transfer Technical Assistance and Coordination

Mode Focused Research Legislative and Executive Branch Mandated Research

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 85 of 106

D. Other Personnel Qualifications and /or Corporate Qualifications In addition to personnel experience, the offeror shall highlight any special certifications; special skills may be listed to illustrate the depth of experienced personnel (i.e. ITIL certification, CISSP certification, etc.) or the companies (ISO certification, SES certification, etc.) that may be on the offeror's team that would be of importance to ITS activities. All certifications must be up to date and current if listed. Any special recognition or awards that relate to ITS activities should also be indicated. The offeror may identify any relevant quality awards or certifications that it has received over the past three years. In those instances where a new corporate entity lacks relevant past performance history, the offeror may submit data on the individual components that comprise the new entity or on individual key personnel, with past performance history. The FHWA reserves the right to use this information to contact technical/business representatives on previous contracts to obtain information regarding past performance. Failure to provide complete information regarding previous similar and/or related contracts may result in eventual disqualification. PART II ­ Approach to the Work Program Section C of the RFP includes a Statement of Work for the program. The purpose of this part of the offeror's response is to present the knowledge, understanding and approach to addressing the work tasks that are anticipated. This response is not meant to regurgitate the Section C requirements, but to talk about the understanding of the issues involved, the approach to addressing such issues, and the unique experience of the offerors team to address such considerations. Due to the number of tasks and the page limitations, this will require the offeror to be concise and succinct. PART III ­ Past Performance and Experience Proposal Submit 15 Contract/Subcontract Experience Descriptions The offeror must submit information on contracts/subcontracts involving similar or related services that were provided over the past eight years for the FHWA and/or for other organizations (commercial, state and local, Federal, etc). The phrase "similar or related services" means "similar or related to the services required under the contract resulting from this Solicitation." Note that such information must be submitted not only for similar or related projects performed by the prime offeror, but also for similar or related projects performed by each of the proposed subcontractors. Subject to the possible exception stated in the next sentence, the offeror shall submit an aggregate total of 15 contract/subcontract experience descriptions for the entire proposed team (prime offeror plus subcontractors). A possible exception to the 15-item requirement stated in the immediately preceding sentence is that any offeror whose entire proposed team (counting the prime and the subs) does not have 15 qualifying contract/subcontract experience descriptions may: (a) include projects that were performed by one or more of the offeror's proposed Key Personnel (Deputy Program Manager or Principal Investigators or Senior Engineers) at a time when those individuals were employed by some organization other than the organization(s) being proposed to perform this ITS Technical

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 86 of 106

Support Services project; and (b) may include projects that were performed more than eight years before the due date for proposals under this Solicitation; and (c) if absolutely necessary, but only as a last resort, the offeror may cite projects that are not directly related to the services required under this procurement. Subject to the further constraints stated in the next paragraph, the offeror must submit the contract/subcontract experience descriptions on the most recently completed contracts/subcontracts or on on-going contracts/subcontracts that were at least 6 months into the period of performance as of the date on which proposals were due under this Solicitation. Each description must be ranked from 1 (being the most pertinent to this ITS Technical Support Services project) to 15 (being least relevant to this project). A contract/subcontract experience description is separate and distinct from a resume. (However, a complete cross-referencing is required: Include on each resume the identifying numbers of those contract/subcontract experience descriptions for which the subject individual worked; and include on each contract/subcontract experience description the names of all individuals proposed in the offeror's staffing proposal for this procurement who have worked on the project cited in the contract/subcontract experience description. Each contract/subcontract experience description shall contain the information shown in the following "Related Contract/Subcontract Experience Description Format." No single contract/subcontract experience description shall exceed three (3) 8.5-inch by 11-inch pages in Times New Roman 12 font. Related Contract/Subcontract Experience Description Format Contract/Subcontract Experience Description No. ____ 1. Offeror's Overall Ranking of Relevance (1 = Most relevant) ________ 2. Proposed ITS Technical Support Services Staff Members who worked on this project, and, for each such person, the CURRENT employer and CURRENT phone number [VERIFY the CURRENCY of this information BEFORE submitting proposal], and number of hours worked on the related project: 3. Title of Related Contract or Project: 4. Customer's CURRENT name and CURRENT address [VERIFY the CURRENCY of this information BEFORE submitting proposal]: 5. Technical office points of contact (CURRENT Name(s) and CURRENT Telephone number(s) [VERIFY the CURRENCY of this information BEFORE submitting proposal]: 6. Contracting/Business office points of contact (CURRENT Name(s) and CURRENT Telephone number(s) [VERIFY the CURRENCY of this information BEFORE submitting proposal]: 7. Contract number, if applicable: 8. Date of contract award: 9. Type of Contract: 10. Period of Performance: 11. Total contract dollar value at the time of award: 12. Prime Company receiving the contract award:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 87 of 106

13. Subcontractors: 14. Contractor's Principal Investigator and Employer at the time: 15. Brief Description of Product or services: 16. Describe how the project cited applies to this solicitation's statement of work. Rationale must be provided to demonstrate that experience is comparable. 17. Rate the relative pertinence of the project cited, to the ITS Technical Support Services Tasks (for those Tasks, see Statement of Work in Section C tables presented in 5.0 Supplementing the Skills and Experience of the ITS Program Manager), by distributing 100 points across this Solicitation's Tasks. (The sum of points must exactly equal 100). Then, within the 3-page limit, provide a comprehensive and detailed explanation of the related project's pertinence to each particular ITS Technical Support Services Task. It is not sufficient for the offeror to merely state that the related project/reference being cited is "comparable in magnitude and scope" to this ITS Technical Support Services project. Rather, the offeror must provide a factual basis and a rationale that demonstrates such comparability. The FHWA reserves the right to use the information provided in the offeror's responses and the right to use any supplemental information that might be obtained through the Government's own research, to contact the technical or contract references cited, for the purpose of providing information regarding experience/performance. Failure to provide complete or accurate information may result in the offeror's eventual disqualification for this ITS Technical Support Services Project. L.20 VOLUME II - BUSINESS AND COST/PRICE PROPOSAL

This volume shall be bound separately from VOLUME I and contains four parts. There is no page limitation for Volume II. ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Part I ­ Offer Part II ­ Cost/Price Information Part III ­ Other Financial Information Part IV ­ 5 sealed Past Performance Questionnaires (in Original Proposal only)

PART I ­ Offer The Offeror must show, in writing, that they agree to all of the terms and conditions of this solicitation, which consists of RFP Sections A through K, including all documents, exhibits, and other attachments that are incorporated therein by reference and made a part thereof or provide an explanation for any exceptions. Part I shall include the following: 1. RFP Section A, Standard Form (SF) 33, "SOLICITATION, OFFER, AND AWARD," blocks 12 through 18 completed and form signed; 2. RFP Section K, if applicable, Offeror shall provide any changes pursuant to paragraph (d) of FAR 52.204-8 as contained in RFP Section K. 3. Statement, Briefly (not to exceed 1 page) state your agreement to all the terms and conditions of this solicitation, which consists of RFP Sections A through K, including

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 88 of 106

all documents, exhibits, and other attachments that are incorporated therein by reference and made a part thereof. The submission of these items in accordance with these instructions will, if the Government accepts the offer, contractually bind the Government and the successful Offeror to the terms and conditions of the solicitation (i.e. RFP sections A through K). If an Offeror intends to make an alternate proposal of terms and conditions that differ from or supplement those contained in the solicitation, then the Offeror must state those alternate terms and conditions in a letter attached to the offer. The same representative of the Offeror who signed SF 33, block 17, must sign the letter. The Government warns Offerors that it reserves the right to award this contract without discussions in accordance with FAR 52.215-1. By making an alternate proposal, the Offeror may, either intentionally or inadvertently, render its proposal unacceptable, unless the RFP expressly states that the Government will entertain an alternative proposal with regard to a specific term or condition of the request for proposals. In the absence of discussions, the Government will give Offerors no opportunity to modify their proposals to eliminate deficiencies. PART II ­ Cost/Price Information This volume shall include all pricing information and certain general financial/organizational information, as described below: A. Cost/Price Information 1. The cost/price information is meant to determine an overall cost for the ITS Technical Support Services contract by the offerors team, as well as understand the details and assumptions that are included in the offeror's price for services. The man-hours for all labor categories and basic Other Direct Costs (ODC's) that are anticipated have been estimated by the Government and are provided in Attachment 8 for all Offerors as an input to the cost/price information preparation. It is recommended that Attachment 8, an Excel spreadsheet, be used in completing the cost and price information and the calculations are clearly indicated herein. All offerors shall submit: a. Direct Labor Cost Breakdown - Using the format provided in Attachment 8, provide the costs for personnel, by labor category, that are anticipated over the five years of the contract period of performance. Attachment 7 should be used to determine the skills sets for each of the labor categories included in Attachment 8. As a part of the Excel spreadsheet, the annual increases in labor cost escalation should also be inputted by the offeror to reflect anticipated changes in labor costs over the five year period. (see Attachment 8, tab Data, line 44). Once the anticipated escalation for each year is inputted by the offeror, the related fields will automatically populate in all other related data worksheets that are included as a part of Attachment 8. b. Other Direct Costs ­ Base year other direct costs (ODC's) are estimated by the Government and are included in the Attachment 8 Excel spreadsheet. As a part of

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 89 of 106

c.

d.

e.

f.

g.

the Excel spreadsheet, the annual increases in travel, equipment/materials, and other additional costs escalation should also be inputted by the offeror to reflect anticipated changes in ODCs over the five year period. (see Attachment 8, tab Data, lines 45-47). Once the anticipated escalation for each year is inputted by the offeror, the related fields will automatically populate in all other related data worksheets that are included as a part of Attachment 8. The base year costs are anticipated and are not to be changed for purposes of the cost/price evaluation. The offeror may provide comments on ODC costs that they feel should be added, or deleted, due to their cost structure or assumptions. They may be addressed if they are short listed or selected for contract negotiations with the Government. Fringe Benefit (FB) Rate - The offeror is requested to provide a fringe benefit rate to be applied to labor costs in estimating costs over the five year period. The fringe benefit rate that is anticipated for the life of the contract (line 38) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. The offeror shall also evaluate and input into the Excel spreadsheet the annual escalation for fringe benefits that are anticipated for the life of the contract (line 48) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. Once the anticipated escalation for each year is inputted by the offeror, the related fields will automatically populate in all other related data worksheets that are included as a part of Attachment 8. Overhead Costs - The offeror is requested to provide an overhead rate to be applied to labor costs in estimating costs over the five year period. The overhead rate that is anticipated for the life of the contract (line 39) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. The offeror shall also evaluate and input into the Excel spreadsheet the annual escalation for overhead rates that are anticipated for the life of the contract (line 49) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. Once the anticipated escalation for each year is inputted by the offeror, the related fields will automatically populate in all other related data worksheets that are included as a part of Attachment 8. General and Administrative (G&A) Rate - The offeror is requested to provide a general and administrative (G&A) rate to be applied to non-labor costs in estimating costs over the five year period. The G&A rate that is anticipated for the life of the contract (line 40) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. The offeror shall also evaluate and input into the Excel spreadsheet the annual escalation for G&A rates that are anticipated for the life of the contract (line 50) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. Once the anticipated escalation for each year is inputted by the offeror, the related fields will automatically populate in all other related data worksheets that are included as a part of Attachment 8. Fee or Profit - - The offeror is requested to provide a fee rate or percentage of profit to be applied to labor costs in estimating costs over the five year period. The fee or profit rate that is anticipated for the life of the contract (line 41) on the Data tab of Attachment 8. Start-up Activities - For the first-year budget summary for Competency Area/Task 4.2.2 Start-Up Activities, a subsidiary budget summary showing only, and all of, the offeror's proposed costs and fee for any "Start-Up Task Order" desired by the offeror; or, as an alternative to submitting that subsidiary budget summary for the Competency Area/Task 4.2.2 Start-Up Activities, submit a

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 90 of 106

certification that the offeror is not requesting a Start-Up Task Order and that the offeror will recover start-up costs, if at all, only through the application of the offeror's approved indirect cost rates h. Assumptions Made in Estimating Costs - For each of the above cost items, the offeror shall clearly indicate any assumptions and conditions that have been made in estimating costs. These will be important to both evaluating costs as well as may be discussed in future contract negotiations if short listing or contract negotiations are initiated. i. A separate budget summary showing the total proposed price for each separate year of the project; thus each offeror shall submit five of those yearly budget summaries. j. A separate Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, completed and executed by an authorized official. For each separate required budget summary described in this paragraph, the offeror shall either: (a) use a separate DOT Form 4220.44, Contract Pricing Summary (See Attachment No. 5 to this RFP); or (b) compile and provide, on the offeror's own spreadsheet, a separate display of the offeror's proposed pricing in the same level of analytical detail as is called for in the DOT Form 4220.44. The offeror's Business and Cost/Price Proposal shall be compiled based on the assumption that the contract work will start on December 15, 2010---and the offeror's estimated proposed pay escalations shall be computed accordingly. Budget summaries shall clearly identify the following information and utilize the following criteria as applicable: a. Direct labor by labor categories and by named individual, to include hours, unloaded hourly pay rates, and pay escalations. These data shall be provided for the prime offeror and for all proposed subcontractors and affiliates. Note: Offerors must relate their proposed labor categories to the Government's desired labor categories described in Attachment 7. b. Show all applicable indirect cost rates, including percentages and their corresponding bases. Include support (such as cost pools and computations of percentage rates, or DCAA approval letters) for all indirect cost percentage rates proposed, for the prime offer and for all proposed subs. Note: Offerors must provide dollar values of proposed indirect costs, as well as percentage rates. c. Other direct costs and travel costs (see sub-paragraphs c and d above) need not be itemized----except that any ODCs and any travel costs proposed for any Start-Up Task Order under Task A should be itemized. d. Any cost data or cost break-out which positively cannot be fitted and displayed on the applicable DOT Form 4220.44 may be shown on a separate attachment page or pages, to be included in the offeror's cost proposal. It is requested that any

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 91 of 106

such attachment pages be presented immediately below the particular DOT Form 4220.44 to which they apply. e. The contractor should provide---at a location off of Government premises----the office space to be used in performing this contract. Therefore, each offeror should include, in its proposed price, a realistic allowance for obtaining and maintaining such office space. There is a possibility that on an ad hoc basis, and for specific limited assignments, the Government may require a few of the contractor's employees to be stationed temporarily, and from time to time, in Government office space located in the Washington, D. C. metropolitan area---but no offeror shall assume the availability of any such Government-furnished office space, in preparing its proposal. Instead, each offeror's cost proposal shall be based on the assumption that the contractor will be required to provide all of the office space needed for the performance of this contract. The information described in paragraphs above is necessary to determine the adequacy of the offeror's proposal; to validate that the proposed costs are consistent with the technical proposal; and, to help identify unrealistically priced proposals. 1. Any information submitted must support the price proposed. Include sufficient detail or cross-references to clearly establish the relationship of the information provided to the price proposed. Support any information provided by explanations or supporting rationale as needed to permit the Government to evaluate the documentation. Such information is not considered cost or pricing data, and will not require certification in accordance with FAR 15.804-4. NOTE: Each offeror must either: (a) add applicable indirect costs onto the un-loaded travel costs and onto the un-loaded Other Direct Costs prescribed above; or (b) explicitly confirm that the offeror, if awarded the contract, will never apply any indirect rates to unloaded travel costs nor to un-loaded Other Direct Costs incurred under any resulting contract. Facilities and Special Equipment, Including Tooling: It is the general policy of the FHWA not to provide general or special purpose equipment, facilities or tooling of a capital nature except in unusual circumstances. Items having a unit cost of less than $1,000 will not be provided to the contractor except as authorized with nonprofit institutions or State and local governments. If special purpose equipment of a capital nature is being proposed, provide a description of the items, details of the proposed cost including competitive prices, and a justification as to why the Government should furnish the equipment or allow its purchase with contract funds. Your proposal must include a statement regarding availability of facilities and equipment necessary to accomplish the required work. If any or all of the required facilities are Government owned, a complete listing of these facilities is required and name of the cognizant Government agency furnishing the facilities and the facilities contract number(s).

2.

3.

4.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 92 of 106

5.

Subcontracts/ Consultants: If subcontractors and/or individual consultants will be used in carrying out the requirements of this project, the following minimum information concerning the subcontractor shall be furnished: a. Name and address of the subcontractor or consultant. b. Statement of work and work plan (schedule) for the portion of work to be conducted by the subcontractor or consultant. c. Names and positions of personnel who will work on the project. d. A letter or other statement from each proposed consultant and/or subcontractor indicating that he has been approached on the matter of participation in this contract/task order and that he is willing and able to do so in the terms indicated. e. A cost and price analysis of each Subcontractor/ Consultant proposal, as required under FAR 15.404-3 and in accordance with FAR 52.244-1(b)(7). In addition, show each proposed subcontractor's pricing on separate Contract Pricing Summary forms (DOT Form 4220.44, see Attachment No. 5 to this RFP), or show each sub's pricing on equivalent spreadsheets; and, in either case, be sure to show each subcontractor's pricing elements in the same level of analytical detail as is required for the prime offeror's internal pricing. And show each proposed independent consultant's pricing on separate Contract Pricing Summary Forms (or on equivalent spreadsheets), down to the level of the consultant's proposed numbers of staffing hours and the consultant's proposed (unloaded and loaded) hourly consulting pay rate(s) for those proposed hours.

Facilities Capital Cost of Money If you intend to claim facilities capital and cost of money as a cost element of your proposal, you must complete and include Form CASB-CMF in your cost proposal. Form CASB-CMF is not required of offerors who submit the form to support forward pricing rate agreements or who otherwise make annual submissions of the form to FHWA or a cognizant administrative or auditing office. Subcontracting Plan Master Subcontracting Plan (In Volume I Proposal): Each prime offeror shall include within its Volume I proposal a complete copy of the prime offeror's Master Subcontracting Plan, satisfactorily addressing all of the administrative requirements set forth in FAR section 52.219-9. Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan (In Volume I Proposal): As prescribed in FAR 52.219-9, if the total contract price is expected to exceed $500,000, the offeror shall include a statement in its offer relative to subcontracting opportunities under the proposed

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 93 of 106

contract. The offeror shall state that there will be subcontracting, or that the offeror has determined that all work will be done in-house. If there will be subcontracting opportunities under this particular project, then the offeror shall submit a ProcurementSpecific Subcontracting Plan pursuant to FAR 52.219-9. If it is determined there will be no subcontracting opportunities under this particular project, then the offeror shall submit a statement of circumstances supporting that determination. All Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plans and all statements supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan or a statement supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities shall render the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. See also, Selection Factor "D. Subcontracting Plans," in Section M of this solicitation, for a list of factors that the Government will consider---and that the offeror should address----in the Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan. The Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan must provide breakouts of percentages and dollar values associated with small businesses, disadvantaged business enterprises (DBE), women-owned small businesses (WOSB), historically underutilized small businesses (HUBz), service-disabled, veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSB), and minority institutions of higher education (MIHE) as compared to the total amount bid for this effort. The Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan shall be included in the offeror's Volume I proposal. Note: The participation of small businesses, disadvantaged business enterprise firms (DBE), women-owned small businesses (WOSB), historically underutilized small businesses (HUBz), service-disabled, veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSB), and minority institutions of higher education (MIHE) is encouraged. Both the Master Subcontracting Plan and the Procurement-Specific Subcontracting Plan will be considered in the ultimate award decision. See Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award. Part III ­ Other Financial / Organizational Information Provide the following information: a. b. Indicate your fiscal year period (provide month to month dates). Indicate whether the proposed indirect cost rate(s) have been audited and accepted by any Federal audit agency. Give name, location and telephone number of the agency, and the date of acceptance. If no Federal audit has taken place, data supporting the proposed rates over the past three years must accompany the cost proposal. The data shall include a breakdown of the items comprising overhead and G&A, and the base upon which the burdens are computed. Indicate whether your system of control of Government property has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the Government agency, and date of approval.

c.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 94 of 106

d.

Indicate whether written purchasing procedures exist, and whether your purchasing system has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether your cost estimating system has been approved by any Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether your cost accumulation system has been approved by any Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Attach a current financial statement, including a balance sheet and income statement for the last completed fiscal year. Specify resources available to perform the contract without assistance from any other source. If sufficient funds are not available, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source (i.e., bank loans, letter or lines of credit, etc.).
Small Business Subcontracting Plan - As prescribed by FAR 52.219-9, since the total contract price is expected to exceed $550,000, the Offeror shall include a statement in its offer relative to subcontracting opportunities under the proposed contract. The Offeror shall state that there will be subcontracting, or that the Offeror has determined that all work will be done in-house. If there will be subcontracting opportunities, the Offeror shall submit with its proposal, a subcontracting plan as prescribed in FAR 52.219-9. If it is determined there will not be subcontracting opportunities, the Offeror shall submit with its proposal, a statement of circumstances supporting this determination.

e.

f.

g.

h.

i.

Small Disadvantaged Business Participation - The Offeror shall specifically address goals and approach regarding Small Disadvantaged Business Participation. See SECTION M ­ EVALUATION CRITERIA. All subcontracting plans and statements supporting the absences of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable subcontracting plan or a statement supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities shall render the Offeror ineligible for award of a contract. The subcontracting plan will become part of the contract. Note: FHWA does not have preset subcontracting goals for this procurement. Each proposal will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. The participation of small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, woman-owned small businesses, HUBZone small businesses, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned small businesses, and minority institutions of higher education is encouraged. j. Standard Form LLL - Submit a completed Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities. The Form can be obtained at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/sflllin.pdf.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 95 of 106

k.

Terminated Contracts - List any contract that was terminated for convenience of the Government within the past 3 years, and any contract that was terminated for default within the past 5 years. Briefly explain the circumstances in each instance.

PART IV ­ 5 Sealed Past Performance Questionnaires (in Original Proposal only) Submit 5 Completed Past Performance Questionnaires Each offeror's initially-submitted written proposal shall include five Past Performance Questionnaires (see Attachment 4) completed by organizations for whom the offeror has performed or is performing work. The requirements (and the exceptions) as to the relevancy and recency of the projects to be cited in those five Past Performance Questionnaires are the same as are given above for the Contract/Subcontract Experience Descriptions. Each prime offeror should attempt to include----within the five completed Past Performance Questionnaires----one Questionnaire describing work performed by each separate proposed major subcontractors on the Offerors team. IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT ALL FIVE OF THE COMPLETED PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRES ARRIVE IN THE FHWA'S OFFICE OF ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT IN THE VERY SAME OUTER BOX OR OUTER CONTAINER THAT ALSO ENCLOSES THE OTHER PORTIONS OF THE OFFEROR'S PROPOSAL. IN OTHER WORDS, THE PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRES CANNOT BE SUBMITTED SEPARATELY FROM THE OFFEROR'S PROPOSAL. Each separate Past Performance Questionnaire should be sealed by the customer who completed it, and must then be forwarded by that customer to the offeror, for inclusion in the offeror's proposal. In the original of the Volume II proposal, include a minimum of five completed Past Performance Questionnaires by the Offeror's customers (See Section J, Attachment 4). 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. The completed questionnaires must be submitted by current (within the last three years) customers (both commercial and Government) involving similar or related services. The completed questionnaires shall be from independent sources. Offerors must submit each completed customer questionnaire in a separate envelope that has been sealed by the customer for confidentiality. Offerors may submit additional Questionnaires evaluating performance of major subcontractors. The Government may contact the customer point of contact (POC) for verification. POC telephone and facsimile numbers must be accurate and current. Failure to provide complete information regarding previous similar and/or related contracts may result in eventual disqualification. The CO will consider such performance information along with other factors in determining whether the Offeror is to be considered responsible, as defined in FAR 9.101. The Offeror is responsible for ensuring the questionnaires are completed in a timely manner and are submitted with its proposal.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 96 of 106

NOTE: In evaluating an offeror's past performance, the FHWA reserves: (a) the right to look beyond the Past Performance Questionnaires submitted by the offeror, and the right to perform its own research into the offeror's past performance; and (b) the right to take into account any other information (not provided by the offeror) which the U. S. Department of Transportation possesses regarding the offeror's past performance.

Past Performance Questionnaire Projects May Overlap with Projects Cited In Contract/Subcontract Experience Descriptions There is no requirement that the projects cited in an offeror's Past Performance Questionnaires be different from the projects cited in the offeror's Contract/Subcontract Experience Descriptions. An overlap is permissible. As a matter of fact, the projects cited in the Past Performance Questionnaires could even permissibly be a subset of the projects cited in the contract/subcontract experience descriptions. L.21 PHASE III - ORAL PRESENTATIONS

Based on the Government's evaluation of offerors' written proposals, offerors within the competitive range may be selected to make oral presentations to the Government's technical evaluation panel. The Government reserves the right to videotape, or otherwise record by use of any acceptable medium, any and all such oral presentation(s). Schedule The Contract Specialist will schedule the anticipated oral presentations. The Government will attempt to provide to each Offeror invited into Oral Presentations seven or more calendar days' notice regarding the scheduled date, time, and location of the Offeror's oral presentation. Oral Presentations will be held in the Washington D.C. area. The Government anticipates Oral Presentations will occur in the U.S. Department of Transportation Headquarters at 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC. 20590. Each oral presentation shall be made in accordance with these RFP instructions and any additional instructions that the Government may provide. The CO will tell the offeror when to start its presentation, will keep time, and will stop the presentation at the end of the designated time period----regardless of whether the offeror has finished. The Government may video or audio-tape record the Oral Presentations. A copy of the tape(s) or video will not be provided to the Offerors. Offerors may not video, audio, or otherwise record the Oral Presentations. Format Each oral presentation will occur as follows: ˇ For the Task Areas in RFP Section C the Offeror will have a maximum of 90 minutes to address the Topics described below.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 97 of 106

ˇ

The Government reserves the right to give Offerors a related problem (i.e., a "pop quiz" question) or possible scenario under the prospective contract at the time of oral presentation. If this option is implemented, each Offeror would have an additional thirty (30) minutes to prepare a response to the pop quiz question. The Offeror would then have a maximum of thirty (30) additional minutes to present the Offeror's response. The Government reserves the right to hold a question-and-answer session (Discussions) regarding capabilities, technical issues, and cost-and-pricing issues, if the Government determines it is necessary. It is anticipated that additional time would be allotted, during the oral presentation meeting, for any such discussions.

ˇ

Participation and Attendance The offeror's oral presenter(s) must include the offeror's proposed Program Executive, the Deputy Program Manager, and up to four of the offeror's proposed Principal Investigators. Also, one individual who is capable of intelligently discussing all cost-and-pricing issues and all "business" issues relating to the offeror's proposal should attend. An offeror may send a maximum of five representatives to the oral presentation. General Advice Regarding Any Oral Presentation - The offeror is encouraged to display creativity and clarity during its oral presentation. The primary constraint on the offeror's oral presentation is time. The Government intends to enforce the presentation time limits that are stated above (i.e., offerors will be stopped in mid-sentence if necessary). But time allocations given only in parentheses are at the offeror's discretion and will not be enforced. Questions During the presentation, the Government's representatives will not interrupt the Offeror to ask questions (except to request the repetition of inaudible words or statements or the explanation of terms that are unknown to them) or otherwise engage the Offeror in any dialogue. Question and Answer Session After a short break, the Government may conduct a question and answer session following the oral presentation. This session is intended for clarification of information presented at the oral presentation. The Offeror's representatives must answer the questions posed by the Government's representatives. Topics During the oral presentation, the Offeror shall, at a minimum, address the following topics: 1. Introduction of presenting personnel with their title/position and role in this procurement. 2. Describe any proposed subcontracting or consulting or partnership/teaming arrangements to implement the program. 3. The most comprehensive technical and management approach that the Offeror can provide within the allotted time. Including: a. Describe the team's capabilities expected to deliver support in technical

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 98 of 106

competencies, functional competencies, and situational competencies. b. Facilities/Resources: Describe the team's facilities and resources available to support the contract. c. Describe the team's management approach for supporting the execution and performance of any Task Orders issued by the Government. d. Address each of the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M of this RFP. Presentation Media Offerors shall prepare all presentations in electronic format using Microsoft Power Point software or another similar electronic presentation format when making its oral presentation. Offerors shall use no more than 50 such slides total. The Offeror shall provide, at the time of the Oral Presentation, 9 hard copies of the slides to the Government. The Offeror may not use any other presentation media. The Offeror may not present or distribute any additional documentation (such as manuals, handbooks, guides, etc.), which may or may not have been referenced during the presentation. Offerors must supply a laptop with the electronic presentation already loaded onto the laptop, and the laptop must have a USB port in order to be connected to the provided projector. If PowerPoint slides are used, the offeror is encouraged to use as many as possible, each with supporting photographs and/or graphics, as the offeror deems appropriate. The offeror is encouraged to highlight each bulleted item as it is being discussed while retaining other bulleted items within legible view. The offeror is encouraged to prepare up to ten back-up slides that might be used as appropriate during the question and answer period. The presentation should not appear "rushed" so as to maximize the number of slides used. If PowerPoint slides are used, the offeror must submit an electronic file of the slide presentation and nine sets of 8.5 X 11 inch paper copies of its slides, at the time of oral presentation. The offeror must number the pages of the paper copies, and must bind each set. The offeror may submit no other written documentation for its oral presentation ­ except that the offeror may submit written documentation specifically addressing any technical concern(s) and any cost-andpricing concern(s) previously noted by the Government. If the offeror does provide any written materials addressing any technical concerns previously noted by the Government, then the offeror's oral presentation shall include a comprehensive oral briefing as to the contents and substance of those written materials addressing technical concerns. And any such written materials addressing technical concerns shall be brief enough that a member of the FHWA's technical evaluation panel can easily scan through those written materials at the very same time that the offeror is delivering the oral briefing regarding their contents. No such written materials regarding technical issues shall be so lengthy or so complicated that a member of the technical evaluation panel would need to study those written materials after the oral presentation has ended (or before the oral presentation begins). Each offeror invited to make an oral presentation must provide and must bring its own audio/visual presentation equipment and materials to the oral presentation session. Except as stated in the remainder of this paragraph, the FHWA will not be responsible for furnishing any such equipment or materials. An adequate conference room will be

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 99 of 106

reserved by FHWA for such presentations in the DOT Headquarters Building for such oral presentations. Especially if the offeror uses audio-visual media other than MS PowerPoint view graphs, the offeror must provide the Government a reproducible copy of each product. Such products include video tapes, compact disks (CDs), digital video disks (DVDs), and computer zip and floppy disks. Such products must contain only the material actually viewed during the oral presentation. When evaluating the offeror's oral presentation, the Government will consider only those oral comments and presentation materials, and only those brief written responses to the Government's technical concerns, that were actually projected, actually displayed, or orally discussed by the offeror during the offeror's oral presentation. L.22 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Federal Highway Administration, Office of Acquisition Management, HAAM-30, Mail Stop E65-101, Attn: Mr. Robert Robel, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590. (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. L.23 FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) SOLICITATION PROVISIONS SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

52.252-1

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the CO will make their full text available. The Offerors is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the Offerors and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the Offerors may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.acquisition.gov/far or http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60. 52.215-1 52.215-16 52.215-20 52.215-22 Instruction to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004) ­ ALT I (OCT 1997) Facilities Capital Cost of Money (JUN 2003) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges--Identification of Subcontract Effort

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 100 of 106

52.216-27 52.222-24 52.222-46 52.252-3

(OCT 2009) Single or Multiple Awards (OCT 1995) Pre-Award On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Review (FEB 1999) Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees (FEB 1993) Alterations in Solicitation (APR 1984) Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: None.

SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD M.1 GENERAL

The Government reserves the right to make multiple contract awards. Thus two or more competing Offerors might each receive separate contract awards. In selecting contract awardee(s), the Government will use the procedures described below in this Section M. When evaluating the competing Offerors, the Government will consider: (1) the written information provided by the Offerors; (2) the information provided by the Offerors during any oral presentations requested by the Government; and, (3) any other information obtained by the Government through its own research. Rating Methods for all Phases: Proposals will be numerically scored on Selection Factors A1, B1, B2, B3, and B4; will be adjectivally (qualitatively) evaluated on "Past Performance" (Selection Factor C); will be adjectivally (qualitatively) evaluated on "Subcontracting Plans" (Selection Factor D); and will be examined as to "Price" (Selection Factor E). If the Government requests any oral presentation(s) to be made by the offeror(s) who are determined to be within the competitive range, then the central purpose of such oral presentation(s) will be for the orally-presenting offeror(s) to provide to the Government further basis for the Government to refine scores for each orally-presenting offeror on Selection Factors A1, B1, B2, B3, B4, C, and D. Note that the Government reserves the right to revise the initial rating or to revise the initial numerical score given to any offeror on any Selection Factor or sub-factor, if, in the Government's judgment, such a revision is warranted by any relevant information that: (a) comes to the Government's attention during the offeror's oral presentation; or (b) comes to the Government's attention in any Best-and-Final Offer that the Government might request after oral presentations. M.2 EVALUATION CRITERIA

The Government will award the contract to the offeror or offerors who are determined to provide the best overall value to the Government. The Government will base its selection decision on five Selection Factors listed in order of descending importance - (A) Proximity to DOT Headquarters, (B) Technical Capabilities and Subcontracting, (C) Past Performance and Experience, (D) Price/Cost, and (E) Small Disadvantaged Business Participation. A1. Offeror's commitment to establishing an office in proximity to U. S. DOT Headquarters

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 101 of 106

Because the contractor's staff will be in daily contact with the U. S. DOT staff members who are implementing the ITS program, a requirement of this contract is the establishment of a suitably equipped contractor's office facility in the downtown Washington, DC area that is easily accessible to the US DOT headquarters location at 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE, Washington, DC (on M Street; between New Jersey Avenue and Fourth Street, SE). Specific office requirements include the following: ˇ Contractor's office location must be within a short walking distance of a Metro Station and no more than a 1.5 mile radius from the U. S. DOT headquarters location and west of the Anacostia River, within the District of Columbia Contractor's office location must have a conference room, available for use by DOT, capable of seating up to 20 people Contractor's office location must have teleconferencing and photocopying equipment Contractor's office location must have an office (desk, chair, lighting, phone, etc.) available for use by DOT personnel

ˇ ˇ ˇ

Such demonstrated proximity of the offeror's existing, suitably equipped office space to the U. S. DOT headquarters----or the offeror's written statement, in the initial written proposal, of the offeror's commitment to establishing suitably equipped proximate office space within 60 calendar days after the award of the contract----is a requirement for all proposals submitted under this procurement. Accordingly, it is imperative that each offeror's initially submitted written Volume I proposal explicitly and adequately address all of the proximity and space/equipment requirements mentioned in this selection factor A1. Failure to demonstrate the ability to meet this requirement will be considered as a technical deficiency by the Government, and will adversely affect the offer's score. B1. Technical Capabilities - Offeror's ability to provide technical assistance in the required technical, functional, and situational competencies The Government will evaluate the offeror's capability to deliver the following Technical Competencies: - Expertise must span the breadth of ITS to encompass the current needs of deploying agencies, while also providing targeted expertise to address the emerging needs of the Department of Transportation in its research efforts. The breath of ITS is depicted through the National ITS Architecture, version 6.1. That document can be accessed at the following location: http://www.its.dot.gov/arch/index.htm. - Provide Multi-Modal technical assistance to DOT, ITS, Modal Administrations, Stakeholders, and Public. This support encompasses the technical support for pursuing ITS research and development that contributes towards deployment.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 102 of 106

- Technical assessment, evaluation of issues, technical assistance and analysis support for Multi-Modal aspects of the ITS strategic research plan. Activities involve a range of competencies including, but not limited to, systems engineering, subject matter research and analysis, architecture analysis, economic and econometric analysis, design and implementation issues, training, etc. - Identifying and collecting technical metrics, analyzing, and reporting program effectiveness information to support U.S. DOT programmatic and policy decisions. Outreach to ITS stakeholders; responses to inquiries from the legislative and executive branches of the Federal Government. - Provide technical assistance; documentation preparation and review; and analysis in response to requests from other federal agencies on issues related to the development, deployment, and integration of ITS. Ensure that any information and lessons learned from this activity is fully documented and captured to support subsequent technology transfer. - Provide technical assistance to ITS efforts to enhance the knowledge and skills of transportation professionals in support of the deployment of ITS. The assistance may include subject matter research and analysis, support for training program design and implementation, support for evaluations of alternative delivery modes, etc. - Provide technical assistance in the identification of major technical problem areas and technical knowledge gaps that interfere with achieving ITS strategic goals and to identify the advanced technologies/materials/analytical methods that could be explored to produce breakthrough results in ITS research. Subject matter expertise in the development of technical assessments and roadmaps for advanced research. - Address expertise in technical analysis and recommendations for ITS Technical Tools, Technology, and Standards. - Provide technical support needed for managing the field testing and model deployments of ITS programs research applications and technology. Provide support in the technical aspects of the implementation and oversight of applications, technology, and standards resulting from the ITS JPO research program. The Government will evaluate the offeror's capability to deliver the following Functional Competencies: - Expertise in Program Management Activities applicable to competencies, activities, and task orders. - Steps or processes for first six month transition planning activities to deliver a plan within the 90 day window. - Develop post start-up transition planning and migrating existing contract efforts and work products. - Collect, analyze and disseminate information about the ITS research projects to public and private organizations. The Government will evaluate the offeror's capability to deliver the following Situational Competencies:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 103 of 106

- Technical assistance in outreach, coordination, and technical support, and technical oversight activities. - Provided technical assessments, evaluation of issues and analysis of mode specific and legislative branch mandated research.

B2.

Staffing - The offeror's proposed staff member's qualifications and experience in identified ITS competency areas. The Government will evaluate the qualifications of the offeror's proposed staffing in the ITS technical, functional, and situational competency areas. The ITS technical, functional, and situational competency areas are specified in the "Delineation of Task Areas" of this Solicitation's Statement of Work (see Section C, paragraph 4 and its sub-paragraphs). The proposed staff will be evaluated on the basis of their: ˇ Experience in Technical Aspects of Intelligent Transportation Systems Research ˇ Knowledge of Multi-Modal Applications ˇ Knowledge of Multi-Modal Technology Experience in Program Management Experience at State/Local, Federal, or International Surface Transportation Programs o Professional Associations o Standards Organizations Experience in Deployment of Intelligent Transportation Systems

ˇ ˇ

ˇ B3.

Understanding and Approach - The offer's understanding of the Government's requirements for technical services support for ITS research programs and the soundness of the approach for the work to be performed. The Government will evaluate the offeror's understanding of the Government's requirements including: ˇ ˇ ˇ Demonstrated Comprehension of the Role that the Major Competencies Role Play in the Success of the ITS Research Program Demonstrated Comprehension of value of Research in Intelligent Transportation Systems Demonstrated Comprehension of the value Program/Project Management plays in the Success of the ITS Research Program

B4.

Management, Start-Up, and Transition - The offer's approach to management of the contract/tasks orders, start-up of the contract, and transition from the incumbent contractor. The Government will evaluate the offeror's:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 104 of 106

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ C.

Proposed program management approach Proposed start-up approach Proposed transition approach Understanding of the Task Order Management Process

Past Performance and Experience Past Performance and Experience shall be evaluated as a measure of the Government's confidence in the offeror's ability to successfully perform based on previous and current contract efforts. Past Performance and Experience will not be numerically scored, but will receive one of the adjectival ratings defined below. It will be the overall subjective conclusion of the evaluation panel as to how the proposals will be rated. The Government will evaluate the relevant merits of each offeror's past performance and experience on the basis of its reputation with its current (at least six months into performance) and former customers for the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Past experience on technical support services contracts of similar size, scope, and complexity Relevance of past experience to the work to be performed under the prospective contract and on its depth and breadth Recentness of past experience Overall customer satisfaction Timeliness - delivery and/or performance Responsiveness to meeting contract requirements and correcting problems Quality of services and products Experience handling procurement sensitive information

In evaluating Past Performance and Experience, the Government reserves the right to look beyond the Contract/Subcontract Experience Descriptions and the Past Performance Questionnaires provided with the offeror's proposal, and to also consider sources including, but not limited to: relevant past performance information known by one or more members of the Technical Evaluation Panel; relevant past performance information contained within the FHWA's past performance files; relevant past performance information obtained from agencies or organizations other than the FHWA; and any other information available to the Government through outside sources. The Government will evaluate the quality of the Offeror's past performance based on information obtained from references provided by the Offeror, as well as other relevant past performance information obtained from other sources known to the Government.

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 105 of 106

Evaluation of past performance will be a subjective assessment based on a consideration of relevant facts and circumstances. It will not be based on absolute standards of acceptable performance. The Government is seeking to determine whether the Offeror consistently has demonstrated a commitment to customer satisfaction and timely delivery of quality services at fair and reasonable prices. Note: This Factor is used to evaluate how well the Offeror has performed work that is relevant to the work required under the RFP. The Government will consider the information provided regarding the Offeror, and, as relevant, any predecessor companies, key personnel with relevant experience, and subcontractors proposed to perform major or critical portions of the work. When an Offeror lacks past performance history as an entity, the Government will evaluate the past performance of the Offeror's principals, predecessor companies, key personnel and major subcontractors in assessing the risk that the Offeror presents in fulfilling the contract requirements. Offerors who lack any relevant past performance information will be given a neutral rating under this Factor. D. Cost/Price Cost/Price proposals will be evaluated for cost reasonableness and realism in accordance with FAR 15.404. Cost will not be numerically scored. The Government will evaluate the proposed individual cost elements (labor rates, indirect rates, etc.) to ensure proposed cost elements are fair, reasonable and allowable. NOTE: Under the planned IDIQ contract(s), prior to award of any Task Order, the Government will evaluate Task Order Price Proposals for cost/price reasonableness and Task Order Price Proposals will be negotiated as necessary. E. Small Disadvantaged Business Participation As required by FAR 15.304(c)(4), the Government will consider the following information in evaluating the Offeror's proposed SDB Participation: ˇ ˇ ˇ Complexity of work proposed to be performed by SDBs (i.e. work considered technical or research in nature, and/or work in the specified Task Areas of Section C of the RFP). Specific identification of SDB subcontractors with associated work. Reasonableness of the Offeror's proposed plans and procedures for attaining the proposed SDB targets. BASIS FOR AWARD

M.3

The Government will accept the offer(s) that is (are) considered the best value and most advantageous to the Government using a tradeoff method of selection. The Government will evaluate the competing offers on the basis of the following five factors listed in order of descending importance:

DTFH61-10-R-00019 Page 106 of 106

(A) Proximity to DOT Headquarters (B) Technical Capabilities and Subcontracting; (C) Past Performance; (D) Cost/Price; and (E) Small Disadvantaged Business Participation. Of the five factors, Proximity to DOT Headquarters, Technical Capabilities and Subcontracting are considered the most important. When combined, (A) Proximity to DOT Headquarters, (B) Technical Capabilities and Subcontracting, (C) Past Performance and (E) Small Disadvantaged Business Participation are significantly more important than (D) Cost/Price. M.4 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)

Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government's best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

