
PR20060150 – Questions and Answers

1) how long are the individual sessions.
ANSWER: The individual sessions could run 1 hour, 90 minutes or 2 hours long.  The vendor should have ample video crews to webcast at least one
session throughout the day, while capturing additional locations on video.  

2) what time does the day start and end on day 1.
ANSWER: Although CBP is still in the planning stage and revising the agenda, the vendor should assume that the first session will begin no later
than 8 or 9am and the last session will end at 5 p.m.

3) what time does the day start and end on day 2.
ANSWER: Same answer listed under question #2.

4) this is not a simple bid, can you extend the deadline for 1-2 weeks
ANSWER: Deadline cannot be extended 1-2 weeks.  Funding is fiscal year 2010 money that must be obligated in fiscal year 2010.

5) is there an incumbent contractor for this.
ANSWER: CBP will locate a venue in Washington, DC for this event to include an exclusive in-house Internet and A/V services that will provide
technical support.

6) where is the event.
ANSWER: Location is TBD but will be in Washington, DC.

7) how many cameras.
ANSWER: CBP has requested the following:  2 cameras for the general plenary session and at least 1 camera per break out session (depending on
the sf of the space).

8) is dvcam an acceptable format.
ANSWER: CBP has elected to remove the CBPTV requirement from the SOW; however, CBP has replaced the requirement with the following: 
i) CBP has requested one copy of the symposium in DVD format.
ii) CBP has requested that the vendor provide a minimum of 30-days on-demand unlimited access to the CBP Trade Symposium Webcast that will be
maintained on the webcast vendor’s server.
iii) CBP has requested that the on-demand unlimited access to the webcast will include video, sound components and the PowerPoint
presentations.  The on-demand access to the webcast will not include online polls or online Q&A sessions.  The Q&A sessions will be handled
discretely behind the scenes and not broadcasted online during the live webcast.

9) what is the maximum amount of speakers at each session, ie is there a panel.
ANSWER: The number of speakers will vary per session (i.e., 1 speaker at a podium, talk show set up, etc.).

10) will there be questions from the audience, if so how many wireless mics do you want.
ANSWER: The onsite exclusive A/V service provider will provide support and equipment for the venue.

11) what are the dimensions of the room where this will be recorded.  The event will be held in multiple locations within the same venue.  The
size of the room will vary from 5,000 sf to19,000 sf.  a) if you are in a ball room you may need a camera with a bigger lens than ENG, please
clarify.
ANSWER: Please anticipate the type of lense to bring for rooms varying from 5000 to 19000 SF.
12) is this recorded all in 1 room.
ANSWER: The symposium will be held in multiple rooms within one venue.  The entire general session will be webcasted live.  At least three of
the 6-8 break-out sessions will be webcasted and all additional break out sessions will be recorded and made available on-demand for a minimum
of 30 days.  At least one room will be webcasted throughout the symposium.

13) is there a house audio feed or are we supplying all the audio.
ANSWER: The venue will provide an audio feed.   The onsite exclusive A/V service provider will provide technical support and A/V equipment for
the venue.

14) if there is not a house audio feed is there a pa system to plug into or  do we have to supply one.
ANSWER: The onsite A/V service provider will provide an audio feed.

15) you talk about 8 sessions simultaneously, is there enough bandwidth at the location to support this.
ANSWER: The statement of work has been revised to address this issue.  CBP has requested the vendor to webcast one live session per hour
throughout the symposium.  The vendor must be prepared and able to webcast the live general session and have a second crew waiting and ready to
webcast the next session in a separate location.   The vendor must have the capability to record more than one break out session and webcast a
live break out session in a separate room simultaneously.

16) you talk about unlimited capacity, that is not a problem, but you are asking for a fixed price contract, in order to estimate the cost
properly, there has to be guidelines in place to estimate this key part of the contract.
ANSWER: During past events, CBP has received 2,000-5,000 unique visitors at various times throughout online events; however, CBP does not have a
way to gauge participation for this upcoming event. 

17) Also in order to estimate this part of the contract, we need to know the total number of hours that will be webcasted.
ANSWER: The vendor must be available to webcast the entire symposium to include a total of 18 hours or less.

18) Again you ask for a firm fixed price, but you then put There are webcasting technologies on the market that have incorporated the use of
VoIP audio technology or audio teleconferencing, to allow interactive communication during the webcast.  Trade Relations would like these
features to be available as-needed and optional.  Please understand under a fixed price bid, these options need to be clarified prior to any
bid.
ANSWER: The vendor will provide interactive technology to allow audience participation in the Q&A session throughout the symposium to include
email and/or online chat.  To avoid violation of privacy laws, all interactive technology will not disclose the identity of the audience
participation online.

19)  Webcast Hosting and Maintenance.  The vendor must be able to host and broadcast a media file distributed over the Internet using streaming
media technology, which can be distributed live and on-demand for 30 days or more in HD.  Trade Relations will require the vendor to host the
webcast on their own servers.
Please clarify this, you want all the webcasting to be in HD, does the client understand the bandwidth issues to do this?
ANSWER: Yes, CBP has requested that the entire event is webcasted in HD. The vendor will be required to webcast one session per hour throughout
the event. Please keep in mind that there could be as many as 6-8 breakout sessions running simultaneously. The vendor will be required to have
a 2nd crew set up and ready to webcast in the next room in case the sessions run back to back. The vendor will also have additional crews
available to record the additional 6-7 breakout sessions and make all content (recordings) available on-demand with unlimited access for a
minimum of 30 days post event.

20) The RFQ lists up to 1,000 or more participants – do you know or have an estimate of what the maximum number of participants would be?
ANSWER: During past events, CBP has received 2,000-5,000 unique visitors at various times throughout online events; however, CBP does not have a
way to gauge participation for this upcoming event.

21)  Does CBP already have the hardware equipment (cameras, etc)?
ANSWER: CBP will locate an appropriate venue in Washington, DC for this event.  The venue will include an exclusive on-site A/V and Internet
service provider who will also provide technical support only.

22) Under Applicable Standards it states:
i) Approved by Accessibility Office at DHS Chief Information Office (CIO). – Is this an approval that must be previously attained or is this
approval delivered after selection?
ANSWER: Approval will be delivered after the selection is made.

ii)Insurance Bond for On-Site Event. – There is no mention of onsite services or event support. Is the assumption that the vendor will also
supply audio/video capture onsite support?
ANSWER: CBP will locate an appropriate venue in Washington, DC.  The facility will provide A/V and Internet services per room.  The venue's
exclusive A/V and Internet service providers will also provide technical support to coordinate and troubleshoot any connectivity issues with the
webcast vendor and CBP on-site personnel during the event.  The facility will provide two internet lines per room to include one internet line
for the webcast vendor and one internet line for CBP access).

23) Under Features:
i) Vendor will provide and host the live webcast in high definition and on-demand presentation for CBP on vendor's server. – Is there a
preferred bandwidth maximum to deliver HD? Has this bandwidth been vetted to meet network standards for the audience intended to view?
ANSWER: CBP is expecting a minimum bitrate of 720p for the live and on-demand webcast for this event.

ii) Ability to webcast multiple presenters and/or panels and PowerPoint presentations simultaneously for a large scale meeting or event. – Will
these presenters be geographically dispersed?
ANSWER: All presenters will be on-site during the live event.  CBP will locate an appropriate venue in Washington, DC.  The date of the event is
pending and will be held in 2011.

24) Under CBPTV Specific Requirements:
Is the intention of this item that post event all presentations must be output to tape for delivery and rebroadcast?
ANSWER: CBP has elected to remove the CBPTV requirement from the SOW; however, CBP has replaced the requirement with the following: 
a) CBP has requested one copy of the symposium in DVD format.
b) CBP has requested that the vendor provide a minimum of 30-days on-demand unlimited access to the CBP Trade Symposium Webcast that will be
maintained on the webcast vendor’s server.
c) CBP has requested that the on-demand unlimited access to the webcast include video, sound components and the PowerPoint presentations.  The
on-demand access to the webcast will not include online polls or online Q&A sessions.  The Q&A sessions will be handled discretely behind the
scenes and not broadcasted online during the live webcast.

25) When you say HD video for live and ondemand webcasting, what specific bitrate are you expecting?
ANSWER: CBP is expecting a minimum bitrate of 720p for the live and on-demand webcast for this event.

26) What is the anticipated audience for the event who would watch it live simultaneously, for example are you expecting 1000 people will be
watching the webcast live at any given time?
ANSWER: During past events, CBP has received 2,000-5,000 unique visitors at various times throughout online events; however, CBP does not have a
way to gauge participation for this upcoming event. 

27) How many camera shoot per rooms, for example are you looking for only camera or a three camera set up per room?
ANSWER: The vendor will provide at least 2 to 3 cameras for the general session and at least one camera for each break out session.  Although
only one session will be webcasted throughout the event, the vendor must be able to record the remainder of the breakout sessions and make the
recording available for on-demand access for a minimum of 30 dayss post event.

28) Are you also looking for full live AV production as well, or will that be done by another vendor?
ANSWER: CBP will locate an appropriate venue in Washington, DC for the event.  The facility’s exclusive A/V service provider will also provide
technical support to coordinate and troubleshoot any connectivity issues with the webcast vendor and CBP on-site personnel during the event.

29) Will CBP be providing internet connectivity out of the Reagan center for the webcasting vendor or will the vendor need to contract directly
with the Reagan center for connectivity?
ANSWER: CBP will locate an appropriate venue in Washington, DC for the event.  The facility’s exclusive Internet service provider will also
provide technical support to coordinate and troubleshoot any connectivity issues with the webcast vendor and CBP on-site personnel during the
event.  The venue will provide two internet lines per room to include one internet line for the webcast vendor and one internet line for CBP
access).

30) Will the will the feed for CBPTV need to be set up as live broadcast feed or only for post production?
ANSWER: CBP has elected to remove the CBPTV requirement from the SOW; however, CBP has replaced the requirement with the following: 
a) CBP has requested one copy of the symposium in DVD format.
b) CBP has requested that the vendor provide a minimum of 30-days on-demand unlimited access to the CBP Trade Symposium Webcast that will be
maintained on the webcast vendor’s server.
c) CBP has requested that the on-demand unlimited access to the webcast will include video, sound components and the PowerPoint presentations. 
The on-demand access to the webcast will not include online polls or online Q&A sessions.  The Q&A sessions will be handled discretely behind
the scenes and not broadcasted online during the live webcast.

