

	 



























































































































































































SECTION B:  SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST





B.1.	CONSIDERATION AND PAYMENT



This solicitation will establish a Firm Fixed Price Contract that will provide services for electronic tax preparation and transmission software and support services. The contract will be divided into five contract line items (CLINs) as indicated below.  Each contract line item is for a separate period.  Each CLIN is independent and represents a severable piece of this contract.  Funds obligated for each CLIN shall only be used for that CLIN and may not be used for funding work under other CLINs.  This is a firm-fixed-price type contract.  In consideration for the satisfactory performance of the work that is described in detail in Section C, the Contractor shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule:



B.1.1	Base Period – Twelve months from date of award

	

	Total Estimated Price:					$			



B.1.2	Option Period 1 (12 months)



	Total Estimated Price:					$			



B.1.3	Option Period 2 (12 months)

 

	Total Estimated Price:					$			



B.1.4	Option Period 3 (12 months)

 

	Total Estimated Price:					$			



B.1.5	Option Period 4 (12 months)



	Total Estimated Price:					$			





TOTAL ESTIMATED CONTRACT AMOUNT:		$			









SECTION C:  PWS

PROJECT TITLE: ELECTRONIC RETURN PREPARATION AND TRANSMISSION

                                    SOFTWARE AND SUPPORT





C.1 	BACKGROUND:  



The Stakeholder Partnerships, Education and Communication (SPEC) and Field Assistance organizations within Customer Assistance, Relationships and Education (CARE), or have limited English proficiency provide free electronic tax preparation for taxpayers who are generally low-income, elderly, disabled.  This service is provided in more than 400 IRS buildings nationwide and in more than 10,000 volunteer sites, which are located in borrowed or donated space. The majority of return preparation is performed by certified volunteers. 



During tax year 2012, CARE tax programs prepared over 5.9 million federal and state returns; at more than 11,000 locations nationwide and abroad; assisted by over 75,000 volunteers and employees.



C.1.1 SPEC

C.1.1.1 Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)


SPEC partners with Community Based Coalitions, Non-profit Organizations, and local City and State Governmental Agencies to provide free tax preparation services. These agencies support the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. VITA partners and volunteers prepare basic tax returns for low-income taxpayers, who are U.S. citizens, residents and non-resident aliens and all tax preparation is performed by a certified volunteer with the taxpayer present. These returns generally include income from wages. 



VITA sites are located at neighborhood community centers, libraries, churches, shopping malls and other locations that are convenient to the taxpayer, to include a supplemental program for taxpayers living abroad or near U.S. embassies overseas. Internet accessibility is to be determined by location. Community based VITA sites are generally open January with the beginning of e-file through April 15.



SPEC also partners with the Armed Forces Tax Council to provide free return preparation for active and retired military personnel at military bases and ships across the nation and internationally. These returns can be more complex and include a wide-variety of forms and schedules. These sites have Internet access but operate in a secure environment which tends to impede communication speeds. Military VITA sites are open January - October.



During tax year 2013, there were more than 4,300 VITA sites offering electronic return preparation, with more than 2.4 million federal and state returns e-filed.

C.1.1.2 Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE)


Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) offers tax assistance services similar to those provided by VITA, as well as free tax counseling for elderly taxpayers, who are restricted to retirement homes, neighborhood sites, or private care homes. All tax preparation is performed by a certified volunteer with the taxpayer present. These returns are generally more complex than those prepared through VITA and may include income from pensions, annuities, and social security benefits.  TCE sites generally open the first week in February and close April 15. Internet accessibility is determined by location.



During tax year 2012, there were more than 4,500 TCE sites offering electronic return preparation with more than 2.7 million federal and state returns e-filed.



C.2 SCOPE OF WORK

The Customer Assistance, Relationships and Education (CARE) organization, within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Wage and Investment Division, seeks to secure a contract for electronic tax preparation and transmission software and support services. This software will support the following IRS organizations’ various tax assistance programs:

 

Stakeholder Partnerships, Education and Communication (SPEC) organization: 

Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE), and 

Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)











Figure 1: Organization structure of the Tax Assistance Programs



CARE requires Desktop, Web-based Commercial Off-the-shelf (COTS) and Self-Preparer electronic tax preparation and transmission software and support, compliant with IRS electronic e-file and security requirements. All versions of the software will be used by the IRS tax assistance programs listed above to provide free electronic federal and state tax return preparation and transmission for taxpayers. The software is expected to be used by tax professionals, non-tax professionals who are IRS partners, volunteers, employees (referred to hereafter as IRS licensees) and taxpayers.



CARE’s goal under this procurement is a successful deployment of user-friendly software applications capable of electronic federal and state tax return preparation; with unlimited free transmission of returns prepared by IRS licensees with varying degrees of experience; at potentially 11,000 locations worldwide, with diverse technical operating environments; and meeting IRS security, privacy, support and training requirements.



Under this requirement, the Contractor must, at a minimum, support and facilitate:


Software, 

Software distribution, 

Maintenance (i.e. fix software bugs/problems, updates and upgrades), 

Help desk assistance via web/phone/email, and technical trouble-shooting support,

Support services,

Web-based training,  to include training, web site operation, and

IRS regulatory, security and privacy standards





C.3	SPECIFIC TASKS





C.3.1 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

The IRS requires the software to satisfy certain functional, technical, performance, quality, availability and reporting requirements.  These requirements will ensure the software meets the needs of both the IRS and its partner organizations.  The following types of perpetual licenses are required:



Professional Version

Web-based

Desktop Version (Compact Disc/DVD)

Self-Preparer Version

Web-Based

Desktop Version (Compact Disc/DVD)

C.3.1.1 Functional Requirements

The software (professional & self-preparer) shall be able to prepare and file federal, state and local income tax returns. It shall be capable of handling a variety of tax situations that occur among those served by the VITA, TCE and Tax Assistance Center (TAC) programs.  At these sites, volunteers either prepare tax returns for taxpayers, or assist taxpayers with self-preparation.  As not all sites have internet access, the software will function as a web-based application as well as working on computers without an internet connection.

At a minimum the both software packages shall be capable of the following excepted where noted:

Taxpayer information shall be transferrable between different Electronic Filings Identification Number (EFINs) by using the taxpayer’s Social Security Number (SSN) within the same program type (i.e. VITA, VITA Military, TCE, TCE AARP, TAX and Employee e-file).

The software shall be capable of pre-populating the current year's tax return with information from the previous year's tax return when the taxpayer filed with a licensee for the previous tax year within the same program type (i.e. VITA, VITA Military, TCE, TCE AARP, TAX and Employee e-file).

The software shall share information so that any user can use an SSN to load all taxpayer information currently in the system within the same program type (i.e. VITA, VITA Military, TCE, TCE AARP, TAX and Employee e-file).

The software shall allow a site administrator to create a local network to manage user accounts and passwords, system updates and other configurable items.

The software shall be capable of accurately processing data entry applicable to current tax law.

The software shall be capable of electronic filing.

The software shall be capable of non-e-file return preparation.

The software shall be capable of electronic return preparation for the following 1040 Series Family Forms - 1040, 1040A, 1040EZ, 1040NR, 1040NREZ and 1040PR.

The software shall support interview-based data entry capabilities for federal and state returns. Interview-based is defined as an interactive question and answer application that makes tax law determinations and automatically performs calculations based on responses to specific questions, and uses this information to populate the appropriate tax forms, resulting in a completed tax return. Questions are written in non-technical, plain language and do not assume prior tax law knowledge.

The software shall support state return preparation capabilities for all states with an income tax filing requirement by the 1st day of the filing season.

The software shall support multiple states return preparation capabilities for a taxpayer

The software shall support independent federal and state return preparation capabilities.  That is, either return may be prepared without preparing the other.

The software shall have local and municipal return preparation capabilities.

The software shall capture and use client electronic filing identification numbers (EFIN).

The software shall capture and use client Site Identification Numbers (SIDN).

The software shall allow for Electronic Funds transfer (EFT) (i.e. direct deposit) electronic refund payment methods.

The software shall have the capabilities to disable any debit card feature.

The software shall allow for paper check refund payment methods.

The software shall allow for split refunds.

The software shall allow for savings bond refund payment methods.

The software shall contain built-in tools to enable site managers to determine the status (preparer, reviewing & e-file/transmitting) of prepared returns.

The software shall contain functionality to track the status of a return as it passes through IRS-defined stages: Preparer, Reviewing & e-file/transmitting

The professional software shall contain functionality to enable authorized user to determine who is working on a return during each stage of the filing process.

The software shall not allow more than one preparer to work on a return at any given time.

The software shall capture EFIN details in the ‘paid preparer’ sections of the federal and state returns.

The software shall capture SIDN details in the ‘paid preparer’ sections of the federal and state returns.

The professional software shall capture Practitioner Taxpayer Identification Number  (PTIN) details in the ‘paid preparer’ sections of the federal and state returns.

The software shall have no limit as to the number of local, state and federal tax returns that can be filed per licensed copy.

The professional software shall capture generic preparer-use data fields, which allow the user to capture information not found on the return, such as client demographic information, marketing and funding information, and preparer information.

The professional software shall contain functionality to create standard and customized user-defined fields in the preparer-use section.

The software shall perform diagnostic reviews and checks (aka schema validation) on inputted tax returns.

The software shall perform diagnostic tax law validation on inputted tax returns.

The software shall provide capability to prepare state returns for full and part year residents.

The software shall provide capability to prepare state returns for non-residents.

The software shall be capable of auto populating information between state and federal returns for all information present on both returns.

The software shall provide automated determination of entitlements eligibility, such as food stamps, health care assistance, and student financial aid.

The software shall provide a variety of self-service features including comprehensive Help and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) functionality.

The software shall contain multimedia (both visual and audio) and textual help files.

The software shall provide error messages that are written in plain language (see glossary).

The software shall provide error messages that explain how to recover from the error.

The software shall provide functionality for the indirect transmission of e-filed federal and applicable state tax returns through the Contractor to the Internal Revenue Service Electronic Filing Sites.

When tax returns are transmitted from licensee sites to the Contractor, the Contractor shall transmit them to the appropriate IRS electronic filing site.

The Facilitated Self-Assisted (FSA) software shall return errors and acknowledgements to the taxpayer via electronic notification.  This only applies to Self-Preparer Software.

The Software shall be able to file returns for the previous five tax years.

The software shall allow EFT (i.e. direct debit) balance payments to the IRS.

The software shall allow for secure upload of taxpayer documents by a user at one location.

All software provided will be true and complete software copies including copyright and trademark notices.

In the event the Contractor changes the product name, the Contractor will be responsible to notify the IRS and include it with the applicable software and license use rights. The IRS will not receive less than what was requested when initially proposed and accepted, but does not exclude additional features that are added as enhancements by the Contractor. The features and changes offered will be provided at no additional cost.

All software and license use rights acquired under this contract will become the property of the IRS with full rights in perpetuity.

The software and documentation will be copyable and distributable by the IRS as long as this copying and distribution remains within the prescribed quantities that have been licensed.

Transfer rights, license use rights and maintenance rights will be retained by the IRS.

The IRS will have the right to copy and install all products offered on this acquisition vehicle.  

The IRS will have the right to transfer software to an authorized Contractor, supplier or distributor in support of the IRS.

The software will allow for central transmission of returns for multiple EFINs at a single site.

The software will provide the ability for appropriately authorized users to create and run customized (also called “ad hoc”) management reports, based on a selection of data fields.gfi

The software will provide context sensitive help, including form-specific and field-specific help instructions.



At a minimum the professional software package shall be capable of the following:

A return that is started on a professional software package at a site may be completed by another volunteer using a professional software package at the same site.

The professional software shall allow a site administrator to create system-generated usernames and initial passwords for volunteer preparers.

The professional software shall allow a site administrator to reset a user’s password

The professional software shall allow a site administrator to view all returns entered regardless of the which user entered the return.

The professional software shall allow site administrator assign user roles to specific individuals.

The professional software shall require volunteers to change their password on their first log in.

The professional software shall allow for customizable print settings allowing the user to specify how many times each form in a return should be printed.

The professional software packages shall support form-based data entry capabilities for federal returns

The professional software packages shall be capable of switching between form-based and interview-based data entry modes in real-time, without losing any information already entered.

The professional software shall provide the capability to require a sub-set of users (as determined by the site coordinator) to only use the interview-based mode.

The professional software shall incorporate capability for a review process for returns prior to filing the return.

The professional software shall prevent returns that have not undergone quality review from being electronically filed.

The professional software shall prevent returns that have not undergone quality review from being printed.

The professional software shall allow for access to returns for third party quality review of returns. The roles allowed to do third party quality reviews of returns will be customizable by site coordinators.

The professional software shall provide an audit trail that identifies all users who created, prepared, edited, reviewed or submitted a return, and the date and time the event took place

The design of the user interface, terminology and data entry methods for all professional software platforms (i.e. web-based and desktop) shall be similar, such that a user, who is trained on one platform will be able to utilize the other platform with less than 1 hour retraining effort.

The Contractor shall authenticate the EFIN of every transmission from a professional software package from a licensee site that is directed to the Contractor location to ensure that the originator is an authorized licensee.

The software shall return all acknowledgment information required to resolve errors and confirm receipt to the appropriate licensee for returns submitted using professional software.

C.3.2 Technical Requirements

The volunteer sites that will use the software utilize a wide variety of technology.  Many sites use old versions of computer hardware and software, so the software must be compatible with older systems.  The software (desktop & web-based) must operate on the specified minimum system requirements and maintain compatibility with newer systems as they become available as follows:

The software will be compliant with the IRS Common Operating Environment (COE). That is, the software will not require nor have dependencies on products not included within the IRS base product list.  Example software included in the COS is:

Adobe Acrobat

Adobe Flash Player

Adobe Shockwave Player

Windows Media Player

Windows 7

J2SE Runtime Environment

Microsoft .NET Framework 1.0

Microsoft .NET Framework 1.1

Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0

Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0

Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5

Microsoft Office Professional 

Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable 

Symantec Endpoint Protection

Tivoli Endpoint

Windows Internet Explorer 8

WinZip 



The software shall be able to operate with 1.0 GB of free hard drive space.

The software shall be compatible with Windows 7 desktop operating system and future version of Microsoft Desktop operating system. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of this operating system version. 

The software shall be compatible with the Macintosh OS X desktop operating systems and future versions. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of this operating system version. 

Web-based software shall be compatible with the Microsoft Internet Explorer Browser 8 and future versions. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of the Internet Explorer versions.

Web-based software shall be compatible with the Safari Browser 5.1 and future versions. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of the Safari version. 

Web-based software shall be compatible with the Firefox Browser version 13 and future versions. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of the Safari version.

Web-based software shall be compatible with the Google Chrome Browser version 20 and future versions. This compatibility will be communicated by the Contractor, within twelve months after the commercial release of the Chrome version. 

The software shall have the capability to save tax returns as encrypted files on fixed and removable storage media.

The software shall provide print capability on all printer types, including laserjet, networked and inkjet printers.

The software shall provide the ability to increase font size on screen displays up to 20 points, for use by visually impaired users.

Desktop software products shall not require the internet for completion of initial installation or subsequent updates.

The Contractor shall provide software maintenance packages (including bug fixes, patches, updates and upgrades) in formats appropriate to non-networked desktop installations, desktop installations connected only to a local network, internet-connected desktop installations and web-based installations.  These maintenance packages may be self-installation packages or automatically deployed packages. 

The IRS Contracting Officer Representative (COR) will manage ordering software for the client/volunteer sites and the assignment of licenses. 

The Contractor shall be responsible for shipping or otherwise provide the software, documentation and updates to the sites.  

The Contractor shall provide an ordering tool to the IRS and be responsible for distributing the software, updates, training materials and documentation to the volunteer sites.  The Contractor will provide deployment metrics back to the IRS Contracting Officer Representative



Unless directed otherwise by the IRS, the state software provided by the Contractor shall be the most current State version and release available at the time of deployment.

.





The Contractor shall ship the desktop software CD/DVDs nationwide and internationally to a maximum of 13,000 shipping addresses.	

The Contractor shall distribute the software using a distribution method which guarantees receipt of the software at IRS licensee shipping addresses within 2-business days for domestic shipments and 4-business days for overseas locations.20



The Contractor shall provide the ability for IRS licensees to designate additional notification points of contact (POC) who will also receive automatic e-mail notifications of updates and changes to the software.	

The Contractor shall provide an ordering process that allows only the IRS COR or designee to place software distribution orders and authorize software distribution.	

.







If transmitting codes are required by the Contractor for the ordering process to transmit for more than one EFIN, the transmit codes will be provided to IRS licensees at the time of distribution. 

. 





Licenses that are unused by a licensee will be transferrable to a different licensee.



T



The Contractor shall email a weekly ordering process report to the IRS POC that details the addresses that were rejected by the carrier as undeliverable.



The Contractor shall allow a crediting option for software licenses that were not used by February 15th. 



 



3.3 Availability and Disaster Recovery Requirements



Availability Requirements at a minimum shall:

Web-based software shall be available 99% of the time each week based on a 168 hour week and excluding time for weekly scheduled maintenance.

Scheduled maintenance shall occur within a weekly window on Sundays from 1 AM to 7 AM eastern time.

Web-based software shall provide a three second or shorter response time at all times that the system is available.



Disaster Recovery at a minimum shall include the following:

The Contractor shall maintain a current disaster recovery and business continuity plan, which shall be updated yearly to reflect changes in the technical architecture and environment.

In the event of a catastrophic event (e.g. natural disasters, technological failures, human threats, etc.), the Contractor shall provide a recovery to full service within 24 hours of the beginning of the outage

The disaster recovery and business continuity plan shall distinguish between types of events, and plan for mitigation strategies for these events. 

The disaster recovery and business continuity plan and corresponding test results shall be provided to the IRS POC as needed.

The Contractor shall provide the capability to re-establish IRS licensee’s data files to a condition that existed no more than 2 hours before the interruption in the event of system failures or facility disasters to prevent loss of data and provide business continuity.

The Contractor shall provide maintenance support on their equipment and telecommunication that allows the Contractor system repairs to begin within 2 hours of problem being detected.



3.4 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Each volunteer site is required to provide statistics on the taxpayers served at the site to its sponsoring organization.  Therefore, the software must provide for reporting capability at the site level.  In addition to the standard reports specified below, the Contractor must allow for custom reporting.

The software shall provide the ability for users to generate user level standard statistical reports on demand, for all platforms as follows: 

Summary report on federal tax returns, categorized by various parameters including EFIN, return status and date of preparation.

Detailed report on federal tax returns prepared by EFIN and SIDN including Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) and general information for each tax payer and detailed information about each return prepared.

Summary and Detailed reports on federal tax returns by tax form type with schedules – and should include all forms and schedules prepared.

IRS e-Filing Acceptance and Rejects summary and detailed reports.

Pending Acknowledgement summary and detailed reports – from either the IRS or states.

Listing of all clients with summarized general information details for each client and categorized by EFIN and SIDN.

Listing of all Employer Identification Numbers (EIN) used in each tax return (state or federal) and summary across all tax returns.  That is, the EINs from the taxpayer’s W-2.

Reports cross-referencing details captured within the generic data fields per prepared tax return.

Tax Preparer summary and detailed reports.

Number of claims and total dollar amount for state claims of EIC, refunds, and balance due.

Summary reports on counts of self-prepared and volunteer prepared. 

Access to a reporting web-site for web-based professional software packages for all IRS licensees, the IRS POC and those designated by the IRS POC

The online reporting web-site for all IRS licensees shall run the same reports available from the desktop software

The software shall provide the ability for authorized users to create and run customized (also called “ad hoc”) reports, based on a selection of data fields. This ability can be provided from within the software or provided through a separate reporting web-site.

Report containing aggregate information for the NTA as detailed below:

The NTA report provides summary information about the returns entered at a site.  The fields that need to be captured and reported on are:

1040 Returns – Type of Return

1040A Returns – Type of Return

1040EZ Returns – Type of Return

Single – Filing Status

Married Filing Joint – Filing Status

Married Filing Separate – Filing Status

Head of Household – Filing Status

Qualifying Widower – Filing Status

Earned Income Tax Credit – Number of taxpayers that claimed EITC

Average EIC – Average dollar amount of EITC claimed

Total EIC – Total dollar amount of EITC claimed

Child Tax Credit – Number of taxpayers that claimed CTC

Average Child Tax Credit – Average dollar amount of CTC claimed

Total Child Tax Credit – Total dollar amount of EITC claimed

Education Tax Credit – Number of taxpayers that claimed the Education Tax Credit

Average Education Tax Credit – Average dollar amount of Education Tax Credit claimed

Total Education Tax Credit – Total dollar amount of Education Tax Credit claimed

Elderly Credit – Number of taxpayers that claimed the Elderly Tax Credit

Average Elderly Credit – Average dollar amount of Elderly Tax Credit claimed

Total Elderly Credit – Total dollar amount of Elderly Tax Credit claimed

Transmitted – Total number of returns that were transmitted

Accepted – Total number of returns that were accepted

Rejected – Total number of returns that were rejected

First Transmission Date – Date the first transmission was sent to UTS

Last Transmission Date – Date the last transmission was sent to UTS

Requesting Direct Deposit – Total number of returns that requested Direct Deposit

Average AGI – Average Adjusted Gross Income

Total Refund Amt – Total refund amount for all transmitted returns

Average Refund Amt – Average refund amount for all transmitted returns

Total BalDue Amt – Total balance due amount for all transmitted returns

Average BalDue Amt – Average balance due amount for all transmitted returns

Primary or Secondary 60+ - Total number of primary taxpayer/spouse that were 60 years of age or older

ORDERNUM – Site Identification Number

SCHED_A – If a schedule A is included in the return = A

SCHED_B - If a schedule B is included in the return = B

SCHED_C - If a schedule C is included in the return = C

SCHED_D - If a schedule D is included in the return = D

SCHED_E - If a schedule E is included in the return = E

SCHED_F - If a schedule F is included in the return = F

SCHED_R - If a schedule R is included in the return = R

SCHED_SETP - If a schedule SE is included in the return = SE-TP

SCHED_SESP - If a schedule SE is included in the return = SE-SP

SCHED_EIC - If a schedule EIC is included in the return = EIC

SCHED_CEZ - If a schedule CEZ is included in the return = CEZ

EFIN

USER_NAME – User Name where the return is stored

FIRST_NAME – Taxpayer’s first name

LAST_NAME – Taxpayer’s last name

FILING_STATUS – 1=Single; 2=Married filing Joint; 3=Married filing Separate; 4=Head of Household;

5=Qualifying Widow/Widower

NUMBER_OF_DEPENDENTS – Number of dependents claimed on return

AGI - Total dollar amount of AGI on return

CHILD_CARE_CREDIT Total dollar amount of Child Care Credit claimed

TAX - Total dollar amount of tax on return

EIC - Total dollar amount of EITC claimed

EDUCATION_CREDIT Total dollar amount of Education Credit claimed

UNEMPLOYMENT - Total dollar amount of Unemployment Income reported

REFUND - Total dollar amount of refund on return

RETURN_TYPE – E = Electronic; P=Paper

DIRECT_DEPOSIT – T=Yes; F=No

STATE_REFUND - Total dollar amount of State Refund on return

REJECTED_DATE – Date return was rejected by IRS, if applicable

ACCEPTED_DATE – Date return was accepted by IRS

TAXPAYER_AGE – Primary taxpayer’s age at time of the return

DATE_OF_BIRTH – Date of birth for primary taxpayer

CITY

STATE

ZIP

FORM_8888 – T=Yes; F=No

ITIN - Number of ITIN returns created



4.0 Operational Requirements

In addition to the software requirements, the Contractor shall provide customer support/helpdesk to the client sites, deployment of software and associated materials and training to the volunteers.

4.1 Customer Support

The Contractor will create and run customized management reports based at the request of the IRS POC.

The Contractor shall participate in conference calls with IRS licensees as requested.

The Contractor shall work with the IRS on partner/employee/volunteer communications relating to their products.

Reasonable requests for customization of features within the software. Examples of such requests include blocking bank products, or customizing default values within the software (in order to reduce volunteer burden). 

The Contractor will provide accurate weekly management reports during Jan (1 week after the beginning of filing season) – April to the IRS POC. 

The Contractor will provide accurate monthly management reports May - December, each year to the IRS POC. 

The weekly and monthly management reports shall contain the following information by the preparing EFIN and SIDN: 

The total number of accepted returns by filing status i.e. married filing jointly, single, etc. and by type of form (1040, 1040A, etc.)

Software package used, the SIDN, State EITC, State balance dues, State refund, the total number of accepted returns electronically filed claiming the earned income tax credit, child tax credit, education credit, and credit for the elderly, and the total amount of credits claimed.

Each EFINs beginning and ending transmission date.

Total number of accepted returns electronically filed requesting direct deposit of refunds.

Average AGI of returns electronically filed.

Number of accepted returns electronically filed where the primary or secondary filers were age 60 or over.

The total number of accepted returns electronically filed claiming a refund and the total amount of refunds.

The total number of zero balance returns. 

Total number of self-prepared and preparer prepared returns.

The total number of accepted returns electronically filed claiming a balance due and the total amount of the balance due.

The total number of returns filed that used an ITIN.

Total number of federal and state returns (transmitted, accepted, and rejected).



The Contractor shall allow the IRS the right to include screen-shots and Contractor product information material in written materials and collateral, that will be used in support of the Tax Assistance programs.

The Contractor shall partner with the IRS POC to verify accuracy of software screen-shots or product information included in IRS publications

To facilitate communications, the Contractor shall notify users of software maintenance releases by sending an e-mail notice to an Internet addresses furnished by IRS.

To facilitate communications, the Contractor shall notify users of software maintenance releases by posting the latest version of software available on the Contractor’s web site.

To facilitate communications, the Contractor shall notify users of software maintenance releases by identifying the impact of the maintenance release by providing release notes.

The Contractor will create and run customized management reports based at the request of the IRS POC.

4.2 Help Desk Support 

The Contractor shall provide a support website as well as telephone (Toll-free), email and chat help desk support to client sites.  The help desk will provide timely issue resolution to the client sites and detailed reporting to the IRS  Help desk support is defined as assistance that provides successful resolution of questions relating to software/hardware compatibility and functionality issues of the Contractor’s software. This includes providing support for trouble-shooting technical issues related to the installation and operation of the software (hardware, printers, etc.)

Provided below are the minimum helpdesk requirements:

Beginning with the delivery of software through April help desk support shall be available as follows: Mon-Fri: 8 AM ET - 12 AM ET and Sat, Sun: 8 AM ET - 8 PM ET

The POCs for support issues shall provide contact information including a phone number, an email address, and a cell phone number for after hours as necessary. 

The help desk support shall permit unlimited contact from IRS licensees. 

Help desk support shall be provided to IRS licensees from May through December, based on the Contractor’s standard commercial help desk as available to all customers.

The telephone help desk will provide a first call resolution rate of at least 95%.

If resolution cannot be achieved during the initial call, the Contractor shall provide a call back within one hour with a status update.  In no more than 4 hours the help desk shall present a plan for resolution.

All calls shall receive first level help desk support with an on-hold time less than five minutes.

During the filing season, all help desk calls shall be logged and accounted for in detail. The call log shall contain: The type of IRS program the caller supports, i.e. VITA, TCE, etc., caller's EFIN, the problem identified in the call, the solution that was provided to the caller, date of call, time of day, date of solution, length of time to answer in minutes, length of call in minutes, number of incoming calls, number of abandoned calls, if calls are categorized, the Contractor will provide a legend that defines the categories, Software type (web-based, desktop or FSA).

The help desk shall respond to each email within 24 hours acknowledging the receipt of that email.  This email is only an acknowledgement and need not include a specific response to the problem reported.

The help desk shall provide a response time when acknowledging the receipt of an email.

The help desk shall provide the standard operating hours when acknowledging the receipt of an email (i.e. auto-email).

The Contractor shall provide first-level E-mail-based customer service, with an answer to the problem within 1 business day of receipt of the e-mail.  This email shall address the problem reported by the user.

The Contractor shall provide, administer, and maintain a support web site for licensee access including IRS licensees.  

The support web site shall be available to IRS licensees twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. 

All content on the support website (including FAQs, Blogs, etc.) shall be text searchable.

The Contractor’s support web site shall provide product information, frequently asked questions and answers (FAQ’s), links to email support and software updates.

The Contractor shall provide first-level web-based chat-based customer service available as follows: Mon-Fri: 6 AM ET - 12 AM ET and Sat, Sun: 8 AM ET - 8 PM ET.

The Help Desk shall acknowledge each chat within 2 minutes.

The help desk shall provide a timeframe as to the resolution if unable to resolve at first contact during the initial contact. 



4.3 Deployment Requirements 

The IRS Contracting Officer Representative will manage ordering software for the client sites and assigning licenses, after receipt of a valid funded request.  However it is the Contractor’s responsibility to ship or otherwise provide the software, documentation and updates to the volunteer sites.  The Contractor shall provide an ordering tool to the IRS and be responsible for distributing the software, updates, training materials and documentation to the volunteer sites upon receipt of a valid funded request.  Additionally, the Contractor will provide deployment metrics back to the IRS Contracting Officer Representative.



 Provided are the minimum deployment functions:



Unless directed otherwise by the IRS, the federal software offered shall be the most current version and release at the time of deployment.



Unless directed otherwise by the IRS, the state software provided by the Contractor shall be the most current State version and release available at the time of deployment.



Notification of updates made to the software shall be sent electronically to the IRS POC via email once it has been posted to the Contractor’s web site along with the accompanying release notes.



Desktop software updates shall be identified as MAJOR and MINOR. A major update is one which impacts the security of the application or the outcome of the return.  A minor update includes items such as user interface changes and enhancements.



Contractor shall provide each IRS licensee a copy of the latest version CD (which will include all updates) the end of June each contract year.



The Contractor shall ship the desktop software CDs nationwide and internationally to a maximum of 13,000 shipping addresses. 



The Contractor shall distribute the software using a distribution method which guarantees receipt of the software at IRS licensee shipping addresses within 2-business days for domestic shipments and 4-business days for overseas locations. 



The Contractor shall provide automatic e-mail notifications of updates and changes to the software to the IRS licensees who have been shipped the software.



The Contractor shall provide the ability for IRS licensees to designate additional notification points of contact (POC) who will also receive automatic e-mail notifications of updates and changes to the software. 



The Contractor shall provide an ordering process that allows only the IRS POC or designee to place software distribution orders and authorize software distribution.



The deployment process shall be capable of receiving multiple deployments with multiple delivery addresses. 



The Contractor shall provide immediate acknowledgement of orders during the ordering process. 



The ordering process shall provide real-time counts of the software units purchased.



The ordering process shall allow for acknowledgement and tracking information to be provided to the authorized user and the IRS POC, and include a specific Contractor point of contact for tracking inquiries. 



If transmitting codes are required by the Contractor for the ordering process to transmit for more than one EFIN, the transmit codes will be provided to IRS licensees at the time of distribution.



The software will permit return entry using 3 methods.  The methods are web-based (i.e. professional software accessed over the internet that does not require local installation), desktop (i.e. professional software installed locally that does not require an internet connection) and FSA (software for a taxpayer accessed over the internet that does not require local installation).



Licenses that are unused by a licensee will be transferrable to a different licensee.



The Contractor’s distribution method of the latest version CD/DVD shall allow tracking both domestic and international shipments.



The Contractor shall email a weekly ordering process report to the IRS POC that details the addresses that were rejected by the carrier as undeliverable.



The Contractor shall allow a crediting option for software licenses that were not used by February 15th. 



Registration codes shall be interchangeable between the web-based and desktop packages of the professional software.  That is, every registration code may be used to activate either the web-based software or desktop software.



Sites should be allowed to switch between products. Ie. Web-based, desktop package of the professional software. 



4.4 Training Requirements 

The volunteers who are preparing tax returns and assisting taxpayers may have limited experience with tax preparation and using the Contractor’s software.  Extensive training materials and tools accessible in a variety of formats will greatly assist in building the skills of the volunteers.  The Contractor shall provide live online training, print and electronic training materials and a website with additional training content in order to enable volunteers to use the software.  A training tool which mimics the software will be provided which will allow volunteers to practice using the software without submitting any returns.



The web-based training software must provide a three second or shorter response time.



The Contractor software shall provide web-based tutorials to help users understand how to use the software.



The Contractor shall provide a “What’s New” section within training materials, with details on updates to the software and to tax law changes, as needed, for each tax year.



The Contractor shall provide live web-based training sessions capable of accommodating a maximum of 100 participants per session who are end-users, up to a maximum of 5,000 participants each year.



The live web-based training sessions shall be recorded.



These web-based training sessions shall be available for later use on the Contractor's training web site at least until the following year's materials are available. 



The Contractor shall provide an automated registration process for student enrolment in these web-based training sessions.



The Contractor shall provide a list of participants to the IRS two-days prior to the start of each web-based training session.



The Contractor shall provide a list of participants to the IRS two-days after the completion of each web-based training session.



The Contractor shall customize the training materials and curriculum for SPEC, as required.



The Contractor shall customize the end user training for users in the Tax Preparers role - those who prepare returns, transmit, and resolve rejects.



The Contractor shall customize the end user training for users in the Self Assisted Facilitator role- those who assist the individuals that use the self-prepared software.



The Contractor shall customize the end user training for users in the Site Coordinators role - those that function as administrators or site managers. 



The Contractor shall add IRS approved publications in addition to the software that is shipped annually to the IRS licensees.



Training materials shall cover accurately preparing federal, state and municipal tax returns, transmitting the returns, generating reports, picking up acknowledgement/ rejected files, and correcting rejected returns. 



The Contractor shall make training materials available in an electronic format and print format and in a software reference manual.



The Contractor shall make training materials available in English.



The Contractor shall make training materials available in a practice returns and answers format. 



The Contractor shall provide a web-based training environment for their software, which will be accessible to all IRS licensees.



The Contractor shall provide all training course materials on a CD/DVD to each IRS licensee annually with the shipment of the software.



The design of the training materials for all platforms shall be similar, such that a user, who is trained on one platform, will be able to utilize the other platforms with less than one hour retraining effort. 



The Contractor shall provide an environment for trainees to practice creating, modifying, and printing sample returns. 



The Contractor shall provide screenshots and additional necessary information for the creation of Link & Learn training (aka tax law training) that is created by the IRS.



This training environment shall include a mechanism for accommodating multiple users per site.



The training environment shall restrict access to only authorized IRS licensees by requiring a generic password provided by the Contractor to the IRS COR.



The training environment shall require users to create a unique account.



5.0 Transition –in and Phase Out Requirements 



Transition in/out tasks described herein to successfully (1) complete the readiness activities necessary to assume the existing work performed under the current contract; (2) transition the work; and (3) assume control and management of the work described in this PWS within a six month (180) day transition period, if required.  





C.4	 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY	

The Contractor shall provide all equipment necessary for performance of this contract; however, in some instances, an exception may be granted to furnish Government-owned property or to authorize purchase with contract funds. Property purchased with Government funds will become the property of the Government at the end of the contract.



At the end of this contract, disposition of GFP shall be in accordance with  Government Property (APR 2012).



C.5	GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED INFORMATION:

GFI (to include manuals, notes, memos, instruction materials, and other information) may be provided in the performance of this contract.



The following GFI will be provided to the Contractor upon award.





At the end of this contract, disposition of GFI shall be in accordance with FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data (DEC 2007).





C.6 	PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

The Government intends to utilize a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to monitor the quality of the Contractor’s performance.  Oversight will be provided for at the contract and task order levels to ensure that service levels reach and maintain the required levels throughout the contract term.   Further, the QASP provides the COR with a proactive way to avoid unacceptable or deficient performance, and provides verifiable input for the required Past Performance Information Assessments.   The QASP will be developed by the Government in conjunction with the performance work statement.  It will be finalized upon award and a copy provided to the Contractor after award.   The QASP is a living document and may be updated by the Government as necessary.



The Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan can be found in Attachment J.7. 



Performance Requirements Summary Matrix 

























































SECTION D:	 PACKAGING AND MARKING





D.1	PACKAGING



All deliverables (i,e., reports and documentation) shall be preserved, packaged and packed in accordance with normal commercial practices to meet the packing requirements of the carrier including that which is necessary to prevent deterioration and damages due to hazards of shipping, handling and storing.



D.2. MARKING



Each package/container shall be delivered to the COR at the address shown at Section G.1.3, and shall be marked as follows:



Name and Address of Contractor;



Contract Number;



Task Order Number; 



Description of the item(s) contained therein; and



Consignee's name and address.





SECTION E:  INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE





E. 1	INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



The Contracting Officer Representative (COR), as a duly authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, shall assume the responsibilities for monitoring the Contractor's performance, evaluating the quality of services provided by the contractor, and performing final inspection and acceptance of all deliverables and services called for by the contract.



Inspection and acceptance of the Contractor‘s performance will be in accordance with FAR clauses 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies – Firm Fixed Price, and 52.246-4, Inspection of Services-Fixed Price.  



All items delivered to the COR will be deemed to have been approved 30 calendar days after date of delivery, except as otherwise specified in this contract, if written approval or disapproval has not been given within this period.  





E.2       FAR 52.252-2 -- CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer shall make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses:  .



	





SECTION F:  DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE





F. 1	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance shall be twelve-months (12) from the effective date of the contract, with four (4), twelve-month (12) option periods.  The exact dates will be provided at time of contract award.



F.2	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

The place of performance will be the Contractor’s facility, or other location as determined by the COR, with agreement of the contractor.



F.3	SCHEDULE OF DELIVERABLES

The Contractor shall submit deliverable items to the designated COR, and subject to the COR’s review and approval.





F.4	RAMP-UP PERIOD



Work under this contract may require a ramp-up period at the initial stage of the period of performance for the contractor to recruit, hire and clear (security background) personnel within a six month (180) day transition period, if applicable.  





F.5	DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS

Pick-up and delivery of items under this contract shall be accomplished between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday unless changed by mutual agreement between the COR and the Contractor.

When a deliverable due date occurs on a weekend or a Government holiday, the deliverable will be due on the next Government business day, following the holiday or weekend.



The Contractor shall deliver products to CONUS/OCONUS locations, as requested by the Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer Representative.



All contractor deliverables or work products associated with this contract will remain categorized as "Official Use Only.” and are the property of the United States government. The release of any portion must be authorized in writing by the government. 

	

F.5.1	GOVERNMENT HOLIDAYS

1.	New Year’s Day				January 1

2.	Martin Luther King’s Birthday		Third Monday in January

3.	President’s Day				Third Monday in February

5.	Memorial Day					Last Monday in May

6.	Independence Day				July 4

7.	Labor Day					First Monday in September

8.	Columbus Day				Second Monday October

9.	Veteran’s Day					November 11

10.	 Thanksgiving Day				Fourth Thursday November

11.	Christmas Day					December 25



F.6	FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer shall make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses:  and .





SECTION G:  CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA





G.1	DTAR 1052.201-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER′S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) 

APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY (AUG 2011)

 

(a) The COR is __TBD____________ [insert name, address and telephone number]. 

(b) Performance of work under this contract is subject to the technical direction of the COR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term “technical direction” includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, and/or fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily. 

(c) Technical direction must be within the scope of the contract specification(s)/work statement. The COR does not have authority to issue technical direction that: 

(1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the contract specification(s)/work statement; 

(2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled “Changes”; 

(3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance; 

(4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract; 

(5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or 

(6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees. 

(d) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COR must confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the Contracting Officer.. 

(e) The Contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COR. If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the COTR or the designated representative falls within the limitations of (c) above, the contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day. 

(f) Failure of the Contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled “Disputes.” 

(End of clause)



G.2	DT1052.232-7003 ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT 

REQUESTS (AUG 2012)  



G.3	DT52.232-99 PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENT TO SMALL 

            BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEVIATION) (AUG 2012)



This clause implements the temporary policy provided by OMB Policy Memorandum 

M-12-16, Providing Prompt Payment to Small Business Subcontractors, dated July 11,2012.



(a) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the contractor is required to make accelerated payments to small business subcontractors to the maximum extent practicable after receipt of a proper invoice and all proper documentation from the small business subcontractor.



(b) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts with small business concerns.



(c) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act.



SECTION H:  SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS





H.1	KEY PERSONNEL

a. The Contractor shall identify, in the Table below, certain positions or roles considered to be Key Positions.  The Contractor shall submit the name(s) and resume(s) of the Contractor employee proposed in each Key Position.  



*or equivalent



(b) During the first ninety (90) days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 15 calendar days after the occurrence of any of these events and provide the information required by paragraph (c) below. After the initial 90-day period, the Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraph (c) to the Contracting Officer at least 30 days prior to making any permanent substitutions. 

(c) The Contractor shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions, complete resumes for the proposed substitutes, and any additional information requested by the Contracting Officer. Proposed substitutes should have comparable qualifications to those of the persons being replaced. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor within 15 calendar days after receipt of all required information of the decision on substitutions. The contract will be modified to reflect any approved changes of key personnel.

	(End of Clause)	



H.2	PERFORMANCE REQUIRED BEYOND STANDARD WORKDAY

If needed, performance shall be required beyond the standard workday in accordance with the requirements of the PWS. 



H.3	SECURITY

H.3.1	1052.204-9000  SECURITY SCREENING REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS TO SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED SYSTEMS OR INFORMATION (MAR 1998)



(a)	In addition to complying with any functional and technical security requirements set forth in the schedule and elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall request that the Government initiate personnel screening checks and provide signed user nondisclosure agreements, as required by this clause, for each contractor employee requiring staff-like access, i.e., unescorted or unsupervised physical access or electronic access, to the following limited or controlled areas, systems, programs and data:  



(b)	The Contractor shall submit a properly completed set of investigative request processing forms for each such employee in compliance with instructions to be furnished by the Contracting Officer or his/her designated representative. 

(c)	Depending upon the type of investigation necessary, it may take up to several months to complete complex personnel screening investigations.  At the discretion of the Government, background screening may not be required for employees with recent or current favorable Federal Government investigations.  To verify the acceptability of a non-IRS, favorable investigation, the Contractor shall submit the forms or information needed, according to instructions furnished by the Contracting Officer.



(d)	When contractor employee access is necessary prior to completion of personnel screening, each contractor employee requiring access may be considered for escort access. The Contractor shall promptly submit all requests for approval for escort access to the Contracting Officer or his/her designated representative so as not to endanger timely contract performance.



(e)	The Contractor shall ensure that each contractor employee requiring access executes any nondisclosure agreements required by the Government prior to gaining staff-like access.  The Contractor shall provide signed copies of the agreements to the Site Security Officer (SSO) for inclusion in the employee's security file.  The name and location of the SSO shall be provided by the Government after contract award.  Unauthorized access is a violation of law and may be punishable under the provisions of Title 5 U.S.C. 552a, Executive Order 12356; Title 5 U.S.C. 7211 governing disclosures to Congress; Title 10 U.S.C.1034, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military; Title 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(8) as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats; the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents; and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 18, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. Section 783(b)) and other applicable statutes.  



(f)	The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COR) or the Site Security Officer no later than the end of the day of the termination for cause of an authorized employee's access.  The Contractor shall notify the COR no later than ten days after an authorized employee no longer requires access for any other type of termination.  Verbal notifications shall be confirmed in writing within thirty days. 



[End of clause]

 



H.3.2 	1052.204-9001 IDENTIFICATION/BADGING REQUIREMENTS 

(MAR 1998)

H.3.3   1052.204-9002 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF 

CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (OCT 2005)  

	H.3.4		1052.204-9003 – Information Security Training 

                        Requirements (aug 2010), Alternate 1 (AUG 2010)





The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) requires each federal agency to provide periodic information security awareness training to all employees, including contractors, involved in the management, use, or operation of Federal information and information systems.  In addition, IRS contractors and their employees are subject to the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997, which prohibits willful unauthorized inspection of returns and return information.  Violation of the Act could result in civil and criminal penalties. 



Contractors and their employees who require staff-like access to IRS information or information systems at an IRS facility or a contractor-owned/managed facility will complete IRS security awareness training annually, as specified in the contract. 



NOTE:  “IRS information” means Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) information, as defined in.   SBU may be categorized in one or more of the following groups—



Returns and Return Information 

Sensitive Law Enforcement Information

Employee Information

Personally Identifiable Information

Other Protected Information



The Contractor shall ensure all contractor employees who require staff-like access to IRS owned or controlled facilities, or IRS information or information systems, regardless of their physical location, complete one or more Information Protection briefings on computer security, disclosure, privacy, physical security, and/or UNAX, as specified by CSLP.   Individually and collectively, these briefings make up the IRS Security Awareness Training (SAT) requirements for the Service’s information assets.



Personnel required to complete SAT include, but are not necessarily limited to, contractor employees involved in any of the following activities:



Manage, program or maintain IRS information in a production environment;

Operate an information system on behalf of the IRS;

Conduct testing or development of information or information systems on behalf of the IRS; or

Provide advisory and assistance (consulting) services, or administrative support. 



Unless otherwise provided under the terms of the immediate contract/order, contractor employees in the following service categories with facilities access only who do not have access to IRS workspace, or who work in buildings where a clean desk policy is in place for all IRS employees, are not required to complete SAT –with the exception of Physical Security Training.:



Medical;

Cafeteria; 

Landscaping;

Janitorial and cleaning (daylight operations);

Building maintenance; or 

Other maintenance and repair.  



All new contractor employees will receive a system security orientation within the first ten (10) business days following initial assignment to any IRS contract/order, and IT security awareness training (commensurate with the individual’s duties and responsibilities) within five (5)  business days of being granted access to an IRS IT system.   



For each contractor employee assigned to this contract/order, the Contractor shall submit confirmation of completed SAT (using the form at the  web site or upon email request to CSLP at ), via email, to the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP) upon completion, but not later than ten (10) business days of starting work on this contract/task order.



Thereafter, each contractor employee assigned to this contract/order will complete SAT annually not later than April 30th of each year in which there is an ongoing period of performance (in either the base period or any exercised option period).  The Contractor shall submit confirmation of completed annual SAT on all contractor employees assigned to this contract/order, via email, to the CO, COR, and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP) upon completion, or not later than May 12th of the then current calendar year or as requested by CSLP (whichever date is earlier).   



Contractors will verify in writing within 30 days of contract modification, and by May 12, of each year thereafter, that all of their affected employees have successfully completed the specified SAT.  Verification reports will be signed by an official with the authority to legally bind the Contractor. 



SAT is available on the  web site or if this site is not accessible, SAT materials will be made available by CSLP upon request via email to ).



Contractor employees who fail to comply with IRS security policy (to include completion and certification of SAT requirements within the timeframe specified) may be subject to having their access to IRS IT systems and facilities suspended, revoked or terminated (temporarily or permanently).



[End of clause]





H.3.4   1052.204-9005 – Submission of Security Forms and Related 

Materials (AUG 2010)

         H.3.6    1052.224-9000(A) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION-SAFEGUARDS  

                      (JAN 1998)  

         H.3.7  1052.224-9000(B) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION--SAFEGUARDS 

          (JAN 1998)  

           H.3.8  1052.224-9000(C) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION—SAFEGUARDS 

                      (NOV 2005)  

         H.3.9    1052.224-9000(D) DISCLOSURE OF "SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED" INFORMATION SAFEGUARDS (MAR 2008)  

 

H.3.10   1052.224-9001(a) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION--CRIMINAL/CIVIL 

              SANCTIONS (JAN 1998)  

H.3.12   1052.224-9001(a)(2) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION—

  CRIMINAL/CIVIL SANCTIONS  (JAN 1998)

H.3.13   1052.224-9001(B) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION-SENSITIVE BUT 

  UNCLASSIFIED USE ONLY (MAR 2008)  





	SECTION I

CONTRACT CLAUSES





I.1        FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer shall make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses: 

and  .





I.1.1	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CONTRACT CLAUSES

	





I.2	OTHER FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION CLAUSES



I.2.1	52.209-5  CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS. (APR 2010)



As prescribed in (a), insert the following provision: 



 (a)(1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that— 

(i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals— 

(A) Are o are not o presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(B) Have o have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property (if Offeror checks “have”, the Offeror shall also see , if included in this solicitation); 

(C) Are o are not o presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; 

(D) Have o, have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(2) Examples. 

(i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. § 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. § 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. § 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

(ii) The Offeror has o has not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency. 

(2) “Principal,” for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). 

This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. 

(b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 

(c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror’s responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. 

(d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. 

(e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. 

(End of provision)





I.2.2	 FAR 52.209-5, CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS



Treasury AB 12-01-1009.104, Representation by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under Federal Law (FEB 2012) 



This provision is a deviation to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Subpart 1.4. 



(1) The Offeror does [ ] does not [X] have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability. 



(2) The Offeror, its officers or agents acting on its behalf have [ ] have not [X] been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months.



(End of clause)

		



I.2.3	FAR 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) 



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates

specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates

provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total

extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the

option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days. 

(End of clause)



I.2.4	FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 

days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to 

extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the 

Government to an extension. 



If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this

option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months. 

(End of clause)





I.2.5	FAR 52.222-17 NONDISPLACEMENT OF QUALIFIED WORKERS (JAN 2013)

(a) “Service employee”, as used in this clause, means any person engaged in the performance of a service contract other than any person employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as those terms are defined in 29 CFR part 541. The term “service employee” includes all such persons regardless of any contractual relationship that may be alleged to exist between a contractor or subcontractor and such persons.

(b) The Contractor and its subcontractors shall, except as otherwise provided herein, in good faith offer those service employees employed under the predecessor contract whose employment will be terminated as a result of award of this contract or the expiration of the contract under which the service employees were hired, a right of first refusal of employment under this contract in positions for which the service employees are qualified.

(1) The Contractor and its subcontractors shall determine the number of service employees necessary for efficient performance of this contract and may elect to employ fewer employees than the predecessor Contractor employed in connection with performance of the work.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, there shall be no employment opening under this contract, and the Contractor and any subcontractors shall not offer employment under this contract, to any person prior to having complied fully with this obligation.

(i) The successor Contractor and its subcontractors shall make a bona fide express offer of employment to each service employee as provided herein and shall state the time within which the service employee must accept such offer, but in no case shall the period within which the service employee must accept the offer of employment be less than 10 days.

(ii) The successor Contractor and its subcontractors shall decide any question concerning a service employee’s qualifications based upon the individual’s education and employment history, with particular emphasis on the employee's experience on the predecessor contract, and the Contractor may utilize employment screening processes only when such processes are provided for by the contracting agency, are conditions of the service contract, and are consistent with Executive Order 13495.

(iii) Where the successor Contractor does not initially offer employment to all the predecessor contract service employees, the obligation to offer employment shall continue for 90 days after the successor contractor’s first date of performance on the contract.

(iv) An offer of employment will be presumed to be bona fide even if it is not for a position similar to the one the employee previously held, but is one for which the employee is qualified, and even if it is subject to different employment terms and conditions, including changes to pay or benefits. (See 29 CFR 9.12 for a detailed description of a bonafide offer of employment).

(c)(1) Notwithstanding the obligation under paragraph (b) of this clause, the successor Contractor and any subcontractors (i) may employ under this contract any service employee who has worked for the contractor or subcontractor for at least three months immediately preceding the commencement of this contract and who would otherwise face lay-off or discharge,

(ii) are not required to offer a right of first refusal to any service employee(s) of the predecessor contractor who are not service employees within the meaning of the Service Contract Act, 41 U.S.C. 6701(3), and (iii) are not required to offer a right of first refusal to any service employee(s) of the predecessor contractor whom the Contractor or any of its subcontractors reasonably believes, based on the particular service employee’s past performance, has failed to perform suitably on the job (see 29 CFR 9.12 (c)(4) for additional information). The successor Contractor bears the responsibility of demonstrating the appropriateness of claiming any of these exceptions.

(2) In addition, any Contractor or subcontractor that has been certified by the U.S. Small Business Administration as a HUBZ one small business concern must ensure that it complies with the statutory and regulatory requirements of the HUBZone Program (e.g., it must ensure that at least 35 percent of all of its employees reside within a HUBZone). The HUBZone small business Contractor or subcontractor must consider whether it can meet the requirements of this clause and Executive Order 13495 while also ensuring it meets the HUBZone Program’s requirements.

(3) Nothing in this clause shall be construed to permit a Contractor or subcontractor to fail to comply with any provision of any other Executive order or law. For example, the requirements of the HUBZone Program (see FAR subpart 19.13), Executive Order 11246 (Equal Employment Opportunity), and the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 may conflict, in certain circumstances, with the requirements of Executive Order 13495. All applicable laws and Executive orders must be satisfied in tandem with, and if necessary prior to, the requirements of Executive Order 13495, 29 CFR part 9, and this clause.

(d)(1) The Contractor shall, not less than 30 days before completion of the  Contractor’s performance of services on the contract, furnish the Contracting Officer with a certified list of the names of all service employees working under this contract and its subcontracts at the time the list is submitted. The list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment of each service employee under this contract and its predecessor contracts with either the current or predecessor contractors or their subcontractors. Where changes to the workforce are made after the submission of the certified list described in this paragraph, the Contractor shall, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this clause, not less than 10 days before completion of the services on this contract, furnish the Contracting Officer with an updated certified list of the names of all service employees employed within the last month of contract performance. The updated list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment, and, where applicable, dates of separation of each service employee under the contract and its predecessor

contracts with either the current or predecessor Contractors or their subcontractors. 

(2) Immediately upon receipt of the certified service employee list but not before contract award, the contracting officer shall provide the certified service employee list to the successor contractor, and, if requested, to employees of the predecessor contractor or subcontractors or their authorized representatives.

(3) The Contracting Officer will direct the predecessor Contractor to provide written notice (Appendix B to 29 CFR chapter 9) to service employees of their possible right to an offer of employment with the successor contractor. Where a significant portion of the predecessor Contractor’s workforce is not fluent in English, the notice shall be provided in English and the language(s) with which service employees are more familiar. The written notice shall be— 

(i) Posted in a conspicuous place at the worksite; or

(ii) Delivered to the service employees individually. If such delivery is via e-mail, the notification must result in an electronic delivery receipt or some other reliable confirmation that the intended recipient received the notice.

(e)(1) If required in accordance with 52.222-41(n), the predecessor Contractor shall, not less than 10 days before completion of this contract, furnish the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names of all service employees working under this contract and its subcontracts during the last month of contract performance. The list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment of each service employee under this contract and its predecessor contracts either with the current or predecessor Contractors or their subcontractors. If there are no changes to the workforce before the predecessor contract is completed, then the predecessor Contractor is not required to submit a revised list 10 days prior to completion of performance and the requirements of 52.222-41(n) are met. When there are changes to the workforce after submission of the 30-day list, the predecessor Contractor shall submit a revised certified list not less than 10 days prior to performance completion.

(2) Immediately upon receipt of the certified service employee list but not before contract award, the contracting officer shall provide the certified service employee list to the successor contractor, and, if requested, to employees of the predecessor contractor or subcontractors or their authorized representatives.

(f) The Contractor and subcontractor shall maintain the following records (regardless of format, e.g., paper or electronic) of its compliance with this clause for not less than a period of three years from the date the records were created.

(1) Copies of any written offers of employment or a contemporaneous written record of any oral offers of employment, including the date, location, and attendance roster of any service employee meeting(s) at which the offers were extended, a summary of each meeting, a copy of any written notice that may have been distributed, and the names of the service employees from the predecessor contract to whom an offer was made.

(2) A copy of any record that forms the basis for any exemption claimed under this part.

(3) A copy of the service employee list provided to or received from the contracting agency.

(4) An entry on the pay records of the amount of any retroactive payment of wages or compensation under the supervision of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division to each service employee, the period covered by such payment, and the date of payment, and a copy of any receipt form provided by or authorized by the Wage and Hour Division. The Contractor shall also deliver a copy of the receipt to the service employee and file the original, as evidence of payment by the Contractor and receipt by the service employee, with the

Administrator or an authorized representative within 10 days after payment is made.

(g) Disputes concerning the requirements of this clause shall not be subject to the general disputes clause (52.223-1) of this contract. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with the procedures of the Department of Labor set forth in 29 CFR part 9. Disputes within the meaning of this clause include disputes between or among any of the following: The Contractor, the contracting agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the service employees under the contract or its predecessor contract. The Contracting Officer will refer any service employee who wishes to file a complaint, or ask questions concerning this contract clause, to the: Branch of Government Contracts Enforcement, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210. Contact e-mail: displaced@dol.gov.

(h) The Contractor shall cooperate in any review or investigation by the Department of Labor into possible violations of the provisions of this clause and shall make such records requested by such official(s) available for inspection, copying, or transcription upon request. 

(i) If it is determined, pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor (Secretary), that the Contractor or its subcontractors are not in compliance with the requirements of this clause or any regulation or order of the Secretary, appropriate sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked against the

Contractor or its subcontractors, as provided in Executive Order 13495, the regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary, or as otherwise provided by law.

(j) The Contractor shall take such action with respect to any such subcontract as may be directed by the Secretary of Labor as a means of enforcing such provisions, including the imposition of sanctions for noncompliance. However, if the Contractor, as a result of such direction, becomes involved in litigation with a subcontractor, or is threatened with such involvement, the Contractor may request that the United States, through the Secretary, enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States.

(k) The Contracting Officer will withhold, or cause to be withheld, from the prime Contractor under this or any other Government contract with the same prime Contractor, such sums as an authorized official of the Department of Labor requests, upon a determination by the Administrator, the Administrative Law Judge, or the Administrative Review Board, that there has been a failure to comply with the terms of this clause and that wages lost as a result of the violations are due to service employees or that other monetary relief is appropriate. If the Contracting Officer or the Administrator, upon final order of the Secretary, finds that the Contractor has failed to provide a list of the names of service employees working under the contract, the Contracting Officer may, in

his or her discretion, or upon request by the Administrator, take such action as may be necessary to cause the suspension of the payment of contract funds until such time as the list is provided to the Contracting Officer.

(l) Subcontracts. In every subcontract over the simplified acquisition threshold entered into in order to perform services under this contract, the Contractor shall include a provision that ensures—

(1) That each subcontractor will honor the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (c) of this clause with respect to the service employees of a predecessor subcontractor or subcontractors working under this contract, as well as of a predecessor Contractor and its subcontractors;

(2) That the subcontractor will provide the Contractor with the information about the service employees of the subcontractor needed by the Contractor to comply with paragraphs

(d) and (e) of this clause; and

(3) The recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (f) of this clause.

(End of clause)





I.3 INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE ACQUISITION PROCEDURES (IRSAP) CLAUSES





I.3.1	1052.203-11 CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (APR 1991) 


I.3.2   1052.203-12 LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (JAN 1990) 

 

I.3.4     1052.242-9000 POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR

 PERFORMANCE (SEP 2011)  









































































	



















INFORMATION ITEMS

Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 2.16.1, Enterprise Life Cycle (ELC), Enterprise Life Cycle (ELC) Guidance, current version. (If applicable.)

Procedure for “Review and Acceptance of Document Work Products/Deliverables” current version

Procedure for “Customer Technical Reviews” current version. (If applicable.)

Procedure “Life Cycle Stage Reviews” current version. (If applicable.)

Program Office “Milestone Readiness Criteria” current version. (If applicable.)



Required Services/Tasks

Performance Standards

Method of Surveillance (Q/A)

AQL

Deduction

Overall Contract

Management,

Including Timeliness

Contractor maintains high level of quality assurance,

responsiveness to the COR and Contracting Specialist/Officer,

reliability, completeness of tasks; contacts the COR/CO

immediately with any issues or problems; meets time frames in the delivery schedule.

Deliverables; CORs and Contracting Officer monitoring and verification of accuracy and quality

COR  makes no more than 2 valid complaints

during the each contract period. No more than a

two-week delay in agreed upon schedule.

(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination



Mandatory Software  Requirements 



The software provided (desktop, web-based and self preparer) shall be capable of accurately processing tax payer data in accordance with the functional and technical requirements in accordance with the requirements of the PWS.



Software inspection, testing, random sampling, periodic reports, validated user/customer complaints and observations





99% of tax returns processed monthly



(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination



Performance and Reliability 





The Web-based software must be available 99% of the time, 7 days a week, 24 hours per day (Excludes weekly scheduled maintenance) in accordance with the requirements of the PWS.



COR monitoring, and validated user/customer complaints and observations







99% availability per week (Based on a 168 hour week and excluding weekly scheduled maintenance)





(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination 





Management Reports 



The Contractor will provide weekly management reports in accordance with the requirements of the PWS.



High-quality written materials are produced.



COR monitoring

and other

reviewers’

comments on

draft and final products; validated user/customer complaints and observations







99% of reports provided timely per month



Successful review by

COR/CO; minimal

rewriting or editing required.



(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination 



Help Desk Support



Each caller must receive a successful resolution to his problem while on the initial call 95% of the time during each performance year of the contract year (Feb to Feb), in accordance with the requirements of the PWS.



Periodic reports and validated user/customer complaints and observations  







95% of callers per month



(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination

Help Desk Support

Each caller will provide first-level e-mail based customer service, with an answer to the problem within 1 business day of receipt of the e-mail. This e-mail will address the problem reported by the user, in accordance with the requirements of the PWS.



Periodic reports and validated user/customer complaints





95% of e-mails per month

(1)  Negative impact on past performance rating; possible termination



CLAUSE

TITLE



FAR 52.246-2



Inspection of Supplies – Firm Fixed Price (AUG 1996)



FAR 52.246-4





Inspection of Services – Firm Fixed Price (AUG 1996)



PWS Section #

CLIN #

Description

Expected Format

Due Date/Period of Performance

 

0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, 4001

7,000 Software Licenses (Per base year and each option period)





CD/DVD, Licenses, etc.

Jan 1- Dec 31

 

0001-1,

1001-2001-1, 3001-1, 4001-1

Optional Software CLIN to increase the licenses in increments of 1-6,000 (Per Base and each option period)

CD/DVD, Licenses, etc.

Jan 1- Dec 31

 

0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, 4001

Product preview of all software and documentation. 

CD/DVD, Licenses, supporting documentation

1-Oct

3.4

0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, 4001

Weekly Management Reports.

Formal Report

Jan (1 Week after beginning of filing season)- April

3.4

0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, 4001

Period of Performance Summary Report

Formal Report

Due no later than the last day of each Period of Performance

4.1

0003, 1003, 2003, 3003, 4003

Monthly Helpdesk Support Metrics

Report

5th day of preceding month

4.1

0003, 1003, 2003, 3003, 4003

Help Desk Call Log 

Excel Spreadsheet/Word Document

Bi-weekly

4.2

0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, 4001

Ordering/Shipping Reports: Report contains the following: Date order was shipped, Destination name and address, Order Number or Site Identification Number (9-digit alpha and numeric), Delivery date and time, Type of Program (i.e. VITA, VITA Military, TCE, orTCE AARP), Registration code (if applicable), Transmission code, carrier and tracking number.

Excel Spreadsheet

Per Shipping Authorization

4.3

0002, 1002, 2002, 3002, 4002

The Contractor shall update the web-based training and training materials due to software updates, and any applicable tax law changes.

Report on updates, to include sample of updated training materials, necessary updates to training materials and lesson plans, if applicable.

Within 60 days of the occurrence of an applicable federal mandate, minor/software updates, to include appropriate tax law changes.

4.3

0002, 1002, 2002, 3002, 4002

The Contractor shall update the web-based training, updating the lessons to correspond with how the changes relate to the Contractor’s software.  

Web-based access and deployment report

Within 60 days of the occurrence of an applicable federal mandate, minor/software updates, to include appropriate tax law changes.

4.3

0002, 1002, 2002, 3002, 4002

The Contractor shall deliver the formatted lessons on the Contractor training environment for access by IRS licensees.  

Web-based access and deployment report

Within 60 days of the occurrence of an applicable federal mandate, minor/software updates, to include appropriate tax law changes.

4.3

0002, 1002, 2002, 3002, 4002

The Contractor shall deliver the formatted lessons on the Contractor training environment for access by IRS licensees.  

Web-based access and deployment report

Within 60 days of the occurrence of an applicable federal mandate, minor/software updates, to include appropriate tax law changes.

5.0

 

Transition and Assumption

Word

5 days after kick-off

5.0

 

Work Control Plan

Word

5 days after kick-off



CLAUSE

TITLE

FAR 52.242-15

Stop-Work Order (AUG 1989)







(a)	Definitions. As used in this clause--



"Short payment" as used in this clause means an invoice that includes the cost or price for supplies or services delivered or performed, as well as the cost or price for supplies or services not yet tendered to the Government in accordance with the terms of the contract, order or agreement. 



“Short payment” example:  The contract requires the delivery of a set number of items, with the price, delivery location, and delivery due date also specified.  The vendor delivers 50% of the items as specified but invoices for 100% of the items. Before implementation of the IPP, the IRS would have paid the vendor for the items delivered and instructed the vendor to re-invoice the IRS when the balances of the items were delivered.  In other words, the IRS would "short pay" the invoice since the IRS did not remit payment for the full invoice amount.  With implementation of the IPP, the IRS can no longer do this because the IRS cannot accept an electronic invoice that includes items not yet received.  The IRS will reject the invoice. The vendor needs to submit an invoice for only the items received by the IRS (in this case, 50%), and, assuming that these items meet all other contract terms and conditions, the IRS will pay the invoiced amount. The vendor submits subsequent invoice(s) for items as they are delivered and accepted.



(b) The Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) is a secure Web-based electronic invoicing and payment information service available to all Federal agencies and their suppliers.  Effective October 1, 2012, invoicing for payment through the IPP will be mandatory for all new contract awards.  Additional information regarding the IPP may be found at the IPP website address . Contractors must complete the contractor point of contact information below, and submit it with their proposal submissions.  Contractors may contact the IPP Helpdesk for assistance via e-mail at  or via phone at (866) 973-3131.  Once a contract award has been made, the contractor will be contacted by the IPP via e-mail to set-up an account.  It will be necessary for contractors to login to their IPP accounts every 90 days to keep their IPP accounts active. 



(c) Contractor Point of Contact Information 



Contractor Name:   



                                                                                               



Contractor IPP Point of Contact Name:  



                                                                                               



Contractor Phone Number:   



                                                                                               



Contractor E-mail Address:   



                                                                                               



(d) Electronic Invoicing and Payment Requirements



Vendor invoices submitted electronically through the IPP should be in the proper format and contain the information required for payment processing.  In order to be approved for payment, a “proper invoice” must list the items specified in FAR 52.232-25 (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(x), or in the case of a Commercial Item Contract, the items included in 52.212-4(g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(x). 



Under this contract, the following documents are required to be submitted as an attachment to the invoice (Contracting Officer fills in additional documentation that must be furnished by the contractor (e.g. timesheet)): 


                                                                                                                                



                                                                                                                               



(e) Payment and Invoice Questions 

For payment and invoice questions, contact the  at (304) 254-3372 or via e-mail at .  



(f) Waiver


If the Contractor is unable to use the IPP for submitting payment requests starting on October 1, 2012, then a waiver form must be completed and submitted with the contractor’s proposal submission for review and approval by the Contracting Officer based on one of the conditions listed in the waiver form included as Attachment 1 to this clause.  The vendor will be notified prior to award as to whether their request for waiver has been approved or denied.  If the waiver is granted, then a copy of the waiver must be submitted with each paper invoice that the vendor submits to the payment office or the invoice will be returned.



(g) Short Payment



Short payment on vendor submitted invoices will no longer be processed or paid.  If any portion of the invoice does not meet the requirements for a proper invoice, the entire invoice shall be rejected and returned to the vendor unpaid.



(End of Clause)



Attachment 1

										Page 1 of 2



Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) Waiver Form



The IRS invoicing and payment requirements clause (IR1052.232-7003) requires that all invoices under awards made (or effective) on or after October 1, 2012, be submitted electronically via the IPP unless a waiver is requested and granted.  If the Contractor is unable to submit its invoice through the IPP, the Contractor shall complete this waiver form indicating the reason for the waiver request by selecting the appropriate box below and providing a narrative summarizing in detail the circumstances requiring a waiver.  For a solicitation, submit the waiver form with the proposal submission.  For a modification that incorporates the IPP clause into an existing contract, submit the form with the modification.  The CO will notify the vendor via e-mail or another appropriate means of communication prior to award as to whether their waiver has been approved or denied.  If the waiver is granted, then a copy of the approved waiver must be submitted with each invoice that the vendor submits to the payment office or the invoice will be returned.  



Reason for requesting a waiver of the requirement to submit an electronic invoice via the IPP:



	1. 	Submission of invoices through IPP would impose a hardship on an individual (includes employees and sole proprietors) due to:  either a physical or mental disability; a geographic, language, or literacy barrier; or an undue financial burden.  The requirement to submit invoices through the IPP is automatically waived for all individuals who do not have payment capability using ACH with a  financial institution. 

	2.  The political, financial or communications infrastructure where the place of business is located does not support access to the IPP for submitting invoices electronically.  

	3.  The contractor is located within an area designated by the President of the  or an authorized agency administration as a disaster area.  (Please identify area/location.)  

	4.	The submission of invoices electronically may pose a threat to national security, the life or physical safety of an individual may be endangered, or a law enforcement action may be compromised. 

	5. The agency does not expect to receive more than one invoice from the same contractor within a one-year period. i.e., the invoice submission is non-recurring.  

	6.  The contractor customarily submits a high volume of invoices on a regular basis via file format, not currently supported by the IPP (i.e., uses a file format other than XML or CSV) and the high volume of invoices would cause a significant burden to the contractor if submitted through the IPP individually.  If utilizing this exception, please identify the file formats supported by your invoicing system so that the IPP may consider implementing the requested file format at a later date.  File format(s) used:                                              .

	7.  Other  - Please explain                                                                               

		                                                                                                                 

		                                                                                                                                       

	

Attach a separate sheet of paper with a summary narrative substantiating the circumstances for the waiver exception selected from above (1 through 7).  



Attachment 1

										Page 2 of 2 



Waiver Submitted By:





                                                             

Contractor Name							





                                                                            	                                          

Name of Person Submitting Request for Waiver	    Title





                                                                                  

Signature of Person Submitting Request for Waiver

(electronic signature not acceptable)



                                                            			                                           

E-mail	Address						     Phone No.





                                                            			                                           

Contract/Order No. 						    Date Submitted 





Waiver Approved By:





                                                        

Contracting Officer’s Name Printed





                                                        			                                           

Contracting Officer’s Signature				     Date  

(electronic signature is not acceptable)	











(End of Clause)

 





Name

Position or Role*

Labor Category*

TBD

Project Manager



TBD

Senior IT Specialist



TBD

Help Desk Administrator







During the period of this contract, access to IRS facilities for contractor representatives shall be granted as deemed necessary by the Government.  All contractor employees whose duties under this contract require their presence at any Treasury, or Treasury bureau, facility shall be clearly identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by the Government.  In addition, corporate identification badges shall be worn on the outer garment at all times.  It is the sole responsibility of the Contractor to provide this corporate identification.  Upon the termination of the employment of any contractor personnel working on this contract, all Government furnished identification shall be returned to the issuing office.  All on-site contractor personnel shall abide by security regulations applicable to that site.



[End of clause]

 	







(a)	The Contractor shall comply with Treasury and Bureau personal identity verification procedures that implement HSPD-12, OMB guidance memorandum M-05-24, and FIPS Pub 201.



The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is

required to have physical access to a Federally controlled facility or access to a Federal information system. 

[End of clause]

	





  

(a) Contractor personnel hired for work within the United States or its territories and possessions and who require access, wherever the location, to IRS owned or controlled facilities or work on contracts that involve the design, operation, repair, or maintenance of information systems, and/or require access to sensitive but unclassified information, security items or products, must meet the following three eligibility criteria before a full background investigation will be initiated: 



(1) Must be Federal tax compliant, both timely filed and timely payment of any taxes 	due; 

(2) Shall either be at a minimum a U.S. citizen for high risk access, or have lawful permanent resident status for low and moderate risk (3 years of US residency required for moderate risk); and 



(3) For all males born after 1959, must be registered with Selective Service. 



(b) All Contractor personnel performing under the contract that require either escorted or unescorted access to IRS facilities, SBU information or information systems are subject to (and must receive a favorable adjudication or affirmative results with respect to) the following suitability pre-screening criteria, as applicable: 



(1) Credit report results (moderate and high risk investigations only); and/or

 

(2) Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint results.

 

© Each contract employee assigned to work under this contract/order shall undergo investigative processing appropriate to the position sensitivity and risk level designation associated with the work to be performed, as described in TD P 15-71, Chapter I, Section 1. In support of this undertaking, the Contractor shall furnish the following electronic documents to the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP), per the instructions available on the publicly accessible website for IRS Procurement, within 10 business days of assigning (or reassigning) a Contractor employee to this contract/order and prior to the contract employee performing any work there under:



The IRS provided Risk Assessment Checklist (RAC), and 

All required security forms (for new Contractor employees), are available through the publicly accessible website for IRS Procurement.



(Note: These documents (the RAC and security forms) are also available upon request from CSLP via email at CSLP@irs.gov) 



(d) Concurrent with submission of the above-referenced materials to CSLP, the Contractor shall email the Contracting Officer (CO), and the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) to confirm this requirement has been completed. The notice shall identify the subject Contractor employee by name and relevant contract/task order number(s), and list the materials submitted. 



(e) Contractor personnel whose duration of employment exceeds 180 days must be eligible for access, per certification of tax compliance, and shall undergo, at a minimum a National Agency Check and Inquiries as a condition of work under the Government contract. If the duration of employment is less than 180 days or access is infrequent (e.g., 2-3 days per month) and the Contractor requires unescorted access, the Contractor employee must be eligible for access, per certification of tax compliance, and require at a minimum a fingerprint check (Special Agreement Check). No background investigation or tax check is completed if the duration of employment is less than 180 days or access is infrequent when there is escort provided by an IRS employee or an approved Contractor employee at the same or higher position risk level.

 

(f) The Contractor employee may commence work only upon notice of an interim or final approval for staff-like access, revalidation of access for Contractor employee transfers from one IRS contract/order to another, or approved escorted access. 



(End of Clause)

 



          H.3.5   1052.204.9006 – NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN CONTRACTOR 

                      EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT STATUS, ASSIGNMENT, OR 

                      STANDING (AUG 2010)

 

(a)  	The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP), via email, within one (1) business day of the contractor becoming aware of any change in the employment status, assignment, or standing of a contractor employee to this contract/order –to include, but not limited to, the following conditions:



Receipt of the employee’s notice of intent to separate from employment or discontinue work under this IRS contract/task order;

Knowledge of the employee’s voluntary separation from employment or performance on this contract/task order (if no prior notice was given);

Transfer or reassignment of the employee and performance of duties under this contract/task order, in whole or in part, to another IRS contract/task order (and identify the gaining contract and representative duties/responsibilities to allow for an assessment of suitability based on position sensitivity/risk level designation);

Separation, furlough or release from employment;

Anticipated extended absence of more than 45 days;

Change of legal name;

Change to citizenship or lawful permanent resident status, or employment eligibility;

Change in gender or other distinction when physical attributes figure prominently in the biography of an individual;

Actual or perceived conflict of interest in continued performance under this contract/task order (provide explanation);

Death.  



(b)	The notice will include the following minimum information:



Name of contractor employee

Nature of the change in status, assignment or standing (i.e.,  provide a brief non-personal, broad-based explanation) 

Affected contract/task order number(s)

Actual or anticipated date of departure or separation

When applicable, the name of the IRS facility(s) this individual routinely works from or has access to when performing work under this contract/order

Identification of any Government Furnished Property (GFP), Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), or Government Furnished Information (GFI) (to include Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials or badges) provided to the contractor employee and its whereabouts or status. 



(c)	In the event the subject contractor employee is working on multiple contracts/orders, notification will be combined, and the cognizant COR for each affected contract/order will be included in the joint notification along with the CSLP.  



(d)	As a general rule, the change in the employment status, assignment, or standing of a contractor employee to this contract/order would not form the basis for an excusable delay for failure to perform this contract under its terms.  



[End of clause]



 





In performance of this contract, the Contractor agrees to comply and assume responsibility for compliance by its employees with the following requirements:



(1)	All work shall be performed under the supervision of the contractor or the contractor's responsible employees.



(2)	Any return or return information made available shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract. Information contained in such material shall be treated as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.  Inspection by or disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor shall require prior written approval of the Internal Revenue Service.  Requests to make such inspections or disclosures should be addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer.



(3)	Should a person (contractor or subcontractor) or one of his/her employees make any unauthorized inspection(s) or disclosure(s) of confidential tax information, the terms of the Default (Fixed Price Supply and Service)clause (FAR 52.249-8), incorporated herein by reference, may be invoked, and the person (contractor or subcontractor) will be considered to be in breach of this contract.	

[End of Clause]

 







In performing the services described herein, the contractor agrees to comply and assume responsibility for compliance by his/her employees with the following requirements:



(1)	The films or photo impressions and reproductions made there from shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and information contained in such material shall be treated as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.



(2)	All the services shall be performed under the supervision of the contractor or his/her responsible employees.



(3)	All material received for processing and all processed and reproduced material shall be kept in a locked and fireproof compartment in a secure place when not being worked upon.



(4)	All spoilage of reproductions made from the film or photo impressions supplied to the contractor shall be destroyed and a written statement under the penalties of perjury shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer that such destruction has been accomplished.



(5)	All film, photo impressions, and reproductions made there from shall be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service by personal delivery, express mail, first-class mail, parcel post, or bonded carrier.



(6)	Inspection by or disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor shall require prior written approval of the Internal Revenue Service.  Requests to make such inspection or disclosure shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer.



(7)	Should the contractor or one of his/her employees make any unauthorized inspection(s) or disclosure(s) of confidential tax information, the terms of the Default clause (FAR-52.249-8), incorporated herein by reference, may be invoked, and the contractor will be considered to be in breach of this contract.



(8)	(Include any additional safeguards that should be stipulated.)



[End of Clause]

 







In performance of this contract, the contractor agrees to comply with and assume responsibility for compliance by his/her employees with the following requirements: 

	

(1) All work shall be performed under the supervision of the contractor or the contractor's responsible employees. 



(2) Any return or return information made available in any format shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract. Information contained in such material shall be treated as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract. Inspection by or disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor shall require prior written approval of the Internal Revenue Service. Requests to make such inspections or disclosures should be addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer. 



(3) All returns and return information will be accounted for upon receipt and properly stored before, during, and after processing. In addition, all related output shall be given the same level of protection as required for the source material. 



(4) The contractor certifies that the data processed during the performance of this contract shall be completely purged from all data storage components of his/her computer facility and no output will be retained by the contractor at the time the IRS work is completed. If immediate purging of all data storage components is not possible, the contractor certifies that any IRS data remaining in any storage component will be safeguarded to prevent unauthorized inspection or disclosure. 



(5) Any spoilage or any intermediate hard copy printout which may result during the processing of IRS data shall be given to the IRS Contracting Officer or his/her designee. When this is not possible, the contractor will be responsible for the destruction of the spoilage or any intermediate hard copy printouts and shall provide the IRS Contracting Officer or his/her designee with a statement containing the date of destruction, description of material destroyed, and the method used. 



(6) No work involving information furnished under this contract will be subcontracted without the specific approval of the IRS Contracting Officer. 



(7) All computer systems, processing, storing and transmitting tax data must meet or exceed Controlled Access Protections (CAP) wherein the operating security features of the system have the following minimum requirements: (a) an approved security policy; (b) accountability; (c) assurance; and (d) documentation. 



(8) Should a person (contractor or subcontractor) or one of his/her employees make any unauthorized inspection(s) or disclosure(s) of confidential tax information, the terms of the Default clause (FAR 52.249-8), incorporated herein by reference, may be invoked, and the person (contractor or subcontractor) will be considered to be in breach of this contract. 



 (9)	[Include any additional safeguards that may be appropriate.]



[End of Clause]

 







Any Treasury Department Information made available or to which access is provided, and which is marked or should be marked "Sensitive but Unclassified Use Only", shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.  Disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor or subcontractor at any tier shall require prior written approval of the IRS.  Requests to make such disclosure should be addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer. 

[End of Clause]







(1)	Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) at any tier to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by the person (contractor or subcontractor) that returns or return information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein constitutes a felony punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $5,000 or imprisonment for as long as five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized future disclosure of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount not less than $1,000 with respect to each instance of unauthorized disclosure plus in the case of willful disclosure or a disclosure which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the cost of the action.  These penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213 and 7431 and set forth at 26 CFR 301.6103(n)-1.



(2)	Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by such person that any return or return information made available in any format shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and that inspection of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent not authorized herein constitutes a criminal misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $1,000.00 or imprisonment for as long as 1 year, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized inspection of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount equal to the sum of the greater of $1,000.00 for each act of unauthorized inspection with respect to which such defendant is found liable or the sum of the actual damages  sustained by the plaintiff as a result of such unauthorized inspection plus in the case of a willful inspection or an inspection which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the costs of the action.  The penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213A and 7431.



(3)	Additionally, it is incumbent upon the contractor to inform its officers and employees of the penalties for improper disclosure imposed by the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a.  Specifically, 5 U.S.C. 552a(I)(1), which is made applicable to contractors by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1), provides that any officer or employee of a contractor, who by virtue of his/her employment or official position, has possession of or access to agency records which contain individually identifiable information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by the Privacy Act or regulations established thereunder, and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000. 

[End of Clause]





           H.3.11 1052.224-9001(a)(1) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION—

                       CRIMINAL/CIVIL SANCTIONS  (JAN 1998)



(1) Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) at any tier to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by the person (contractor or subcontractor) that returns or return information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein constitutes a felony punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $5,000 or imprisonment for as long as five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized future disclosure of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount not less than $1,000 with respect to each instance of unauthorized disclosure plus in the case of willful disclosure or a disclosure which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the cost of the action.  These penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213 and 7431 and set forth at 26 CFR 301.6103(n)-1. 



[End of clause]







(2) Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by such person that any return or return information made available in any format shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and that inspection of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent not authorized herein constitutes a criminal misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $1,000.00 or imprisonment for as long as 1 year, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized inspection of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount equal to the sum of the greater of $1,000.00 for each act of unauthorized inspection with respect to which such defendant is found liable or the sum of the actual damages  sustained by the plaintiff as a result of such unauthorized inspection plus in the case of a willful inspection or an inspection which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the costs of the action.  The penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213A and 7431.



 







Each officer or employee of the contractor or subcontractor at any tier to whom "Sensitive but Unclassified Use Only" information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the contractor that "Sensitive but Unclassified Use Only" information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such "Sensitive but Unclassified Use Only" information, by any means, for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein, may subject the offender to criminal sanctions imposed by 18 U.S.C. Sections 641 and 3571.  Section 641 of 18 U.S.C. provides, in pertinent part, that whoever knowingly converts to his use or the use of another, or without authority sells, conveys, or disposes of any record of the United States or whoever receives the same with the intent to convert it to his use or gain, knowing it to have been converted, shall be guilty of a crime punishable by a fine or imprisoned up to ten years or both.

[End of Clause]





           H.3.14    SECTION 508 



The Government is mandated to comply with Section 508.  To that end, the Contractor shall provide integration support under this Task Order PWS and shall achieve Section 508 compliance and maintain documentation demonstrating Section 508 compliance as stated below. Contractor shall comply with current and future Section 508 requirements such as Attachment J.2- Section 508 and WCAG 2.0.



Section 508 Provisions:



  H.3.14.1  IR1052.239-9008 SECTION 508 INFORMATION, 

                              DOCUMENTATION AND SUPPORT (SEP 2006)



In accordance with 36 CFR 1194, Subpart D, the electronic information technology (EIT) products and product support services furnished in performance of this contract shall be documented to indicate the current conformance level with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, per the 1998 Amendments, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards.  At no time during the performance of the award shall the level of conformance go below the level of conformance in place at the time of award.  At no additional cost, the contractor shall provide information, documentation, and support relative to the supplies and services as described in Section J, Attachment [Fill in].  The contractor shall maintain this detailed listing of compliant products for the full contract term, including forms of extensions, and shall ensure that it is current within five calendar days after award and within three calendar days of changes in products being utilized as follows:



Product support documentation provided to end-users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request, at no additional charge.

End-users shall have access to a description of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in alternate formats or alternate methods upon request, at no additional charge.

Support services for products shall accommodate the communication needs of end-users with disabilities.

(End of clause)





              H.3.14.2  1052.239-9010 SECTION 508 SERVICES (SEP 2006)  

           H.3.14.4  1052.239-9011 SECTION 508 ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND  

           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (SEP 2006)  






All contracts, solicitations, purchase orders, delivery orders and interagency agreements that contain a requirement for services which will result in the delivery of a new or updated electronic and information technology (EIT) item/product must conform to the applicable provisions of the appropriate technical standards in 36 CFR 1194, Subpart B, and the functional performance criteria in 36 CFR 1194.31, Subpart C, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists.



The following technical standards and provisions have been determined to be applicable to this contract:



 



     _x__     1194.21, Software applications and operating systems.

_x_(a)   _x_(b)   _x_(c)   _x_(d)   _x_(e)   _x_(f)   _x_(g)   _x_(h)   _x_(i)   _x_(j)   _x_(k)   _x_(l)



     _x__     1194.22, Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.

_x_(a)   _x_(b)   _x_(c)   _x_(d)   _x_(e)   _x_(f)   _x_(g)   _x_(h)   _x_(i)   _x_(j)   _x_(k)   _x_(l)   _x_(m)   _x_(n)   _x_(o)   _x_(p)



      ___     1194.23, Telecommunications products.

__(a)   __(b)   __(c)   __(d)   __(e)   __(f)   __(g)   __(h)   __(i)

__(j)   __(k) - __(k:1)   __(k:2)   __(k:3)   __(k:4)



     _x__     1194.24, Video and multimedia products.

__(a)   __(b)   _x_(c)   _x_(d)   _x_(e)



     ___     1194.25, Self contained, closed products.

__(a)   __(b)   __(c)   __(d)   __(e)   __(f)   __(g)   __(h)   __(i)   __(j)



      ___     194.26, Desktop and portable computers.

__(a)   __(b)   __(c)   __(d)



The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future.



The follow functional performance criteria (36CFR 1194.31) apply to this contract:

 



_X_	(a) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided.





_X_	(b) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided.





_X_	(c) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided.





_X_ 	(d) 	Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided.





_X_	(e) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided.





_X_ 	(f) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.



[End of clause]





          H.3.14.3 1052.239-9012 COMMON SECURITY CONFIGURATIONS (FEB 2009)  



The provider of information technology shall certify applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC). This includes Internet Explore 7 configured to operate on Windows XP" and Vista" (in Protected Mode on Vista").  For the Windows XP" settings see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_WinXP.html, and for the Windows Vista" settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_vista.html. 



The standard installation, operation, maintenance, update, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved FDCC configuration. The information technology should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default "program files" directory and should be able to silently install and uninstall.



Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges.



                                                      (End of clause)







Each electronic and information technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will apply the remedies described under FAR 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies _ Fixed Price.

The following technical standards and provisions have been determined to be applicable to this contract:

 ___	1194.21, Software applications and operating systems. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j) _(k) _(l)



 ___	1194.22, Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j) _(k) _(l) _(m) _(n) _(o) _(p)



 ___       1194.23, Telecommunications products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j) _(k)



 ___	1194.24, Video and multimedia products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d)



 ___	1194.25, Self contained, closed products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j)



 ___	1194.26, Desktop and portable computers. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d)



The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future.



The following functional performance criteria (36 CFR 1194.31) apply to this contract. 

 ___	(a) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided.

 ___	(b) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided.

 ___	(c) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided.

 ___ 	(d) 	Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided.

 ___	(e) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided.

 ___ 	(f) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.



[End of clause]



FAR CLAUSE

TITLE AND DATE



52.202-1

Definitions (NOV 2013)

52.203-3

Gratuities (APR 1984)

52.203-5

Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984)

52.203-6

Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006)

52.203-7

Anti-Kickback Procedures (OCT 2010)

52.203-8

Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997)

52.203-10

Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity 

(JAN 1997)

52.203-12

Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010)

52.203-13

Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010)

52.204-4

Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (MAY 2011)

52.204-7

System for Award Management (JUL 2013)

52.209-6

Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment

(AUG 2013)

52.211-11

Liquidated Damages – Supplies, Services, or Research and Development (SEPT 2000)

52.215-2

Audit and Records--Negotiation (OCT 2010)

52.215-8

Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997)

52.215-15

Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (OCT 2010)

52.215-17

Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money (OCT 1997)

52.215-18

Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions (JUL 2005)

52.215-19

Notification of Ownership Changes (OCT 1997)

52.215-21

Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications (OCT 2010) 

52.217-5

Evaluation of Options (JUL 1990)

52.219-8

Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JUL 2013)

52.219-28

Post-Award Small Business Program Representation (JUL 2013)

52.222-2

Payment for Overtime Premiums (JUL 1990) [$0]

52.222-3

Convict Labor (JUN 2003)

52.222-21

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999)

52.222-26

Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007)

52.222-35

Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010)

52.222-36

Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010)

52.222-37

Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010)

52.222-41

Service Contract Act of 1965, as Amended (NOV 2007)

52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009))

52.222-54

Employment Eligibility Verification (AUG 2013)

52.223-6

Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001)

52.223-18

Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011)

52.224-1

Privacy Act Notification (APR 1984)

52.224-2

Privacy Act (APR 1984)

52.225-13

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008)

52.225.20

Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan – Certification (AUG 2009)

52.225.25

Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran- Representation and Certifications  Certification (DEC 2012)

52.227-1

Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007)

52.227-2

Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007)

52.227-14

Rights in Data – General (DEC 2007)

52.227-17

Rights In Data – Special Works (DEC 2007)

52.232-1

Payments (APR 1984)

52.232-8

Discounts For Prompt Payment (FEB 2002)

52.232-11

Extras (APR 1984)

52.232-16

Progress Payments (APR 2012) Alternate I (Mar 2000)

52.232-17

Interest (OCT 2010)

52.232-23

Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986)

52.232-25

Prompt Payment (JUL 2013) Alternate I (Feb 2002)

52.232-33

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer –System for Award Management  (JUL 2013)

52.232-36

Payment by Third Party (JUL 2013)

52.232-40

Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business Subcontractors (DEC 2013) 

52.233-1

Disputes (JUL 2002) Alternate I (Dec 1991)

52.233-2

Service of Protest (SEP 2006) Alternate I (JUN 1985)

52.233-3

Protest After Award (AUG 1996) 

52.233-4

Applicable Law For Breach Of Contract Claim (OCT 2004)

52.237-3

Continuity of Services (JAN 1991)

52.239-1

Privacy or Security Safeguards (AUG 1996)

52.242-13

Bankruptcy (JUL 1995)

52.242-15

Stop-Work Order (AUG 1989)

52.243-1

Changes- Fixed Price (AUG 1987) Alternate II (APR 1984)

52.244-2

Subcontracts (JUN 200OCT 20107) Alternate I (JUN 2007)

52.244-5

Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996)

52.244-6

Subcontracts for Commercial Items (DEC 2013)

52.245-1

Government Property (APR 2012)

52.247-34

F.O.B. Destination (NOV 1991)

52.249-2

Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (APR 2012)

52.253-1

Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)





   (a)  The definitions and prohibitions contained in the clause, at FAR 52.203-12, Limitations on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, included in this solicitation, are hereby incorporated by reference in paragraph (b) of this certification.



   (b)  The Offeror, by signing its offer, hereby certifies to the best of his or her knowledge and belief that on or after December 23, 1989,--

      (1)  No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the awarding of a Federal contract resulting from this solicitation;

      (2)  If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds (including profit or fee received under a covered Federal

transaction) have been paid, or will be paid, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with this solicitation, the Offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB standard form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to the Contracting Officer;

and

      (3)  He or she will include the language of this certification in all subcontract awards at any tier and require that all

recipients of subcontract awards in excess of $100,000 shall certify and disclose accordingly.



   (c)  Submission of this certification and disclosure is a prerequisite for making or entering into this contract imposed by

section 1352, title 31, United States Code.  Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under this provision or who fails to file or amend the disclosure form to be file or amended by this provision, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000, and not more than $100,000, for each such failure.



(End of provision)

 







(a)  Definitions.

     "Agency", as used in this clause, means executive agency as defined in 2.101.

     "Covered Federal action", as used in this clause, means any of the following Federal actions:

         (a)  The awarding of any Federal contract.

         (b)  The making of any Federal grant.

         (c)  The making of any Federal loan.

         (d)  The entering into of any cooperative agreement.

         (e)  The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.

      "Indian tribe" and "tribal organization", as used in this clause, have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B) and include Alaskan natives.

      "Influencing or attempting to influence," as used in this clause, means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or an appearance before an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.

      "Local government," as used in this clause, means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government. 

      "Officer or employee of an agency," as used in this clause, includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:

         (a)  An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, United States Code, including a position under a temporary appointment.

         (b)  A member of the uniformed services, as defined in subsection 101(3), title 37, United States Code.

         (c)  A special Government employee, as defined in section 202, title 18, United States Code.

         (d)  An individual who is a member of a Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, United States Code, appendix 2.

      "Person," as used in this clause, means an individual, corporation, company association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit, or not for profit.  This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or an other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.

      "Reasonable compensation," as used in this clause, means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for such work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.

       "Reasonable payment," as used in this clause, means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.

       "Recipient," as used in this clause, includes the Contractor and all subcontractors.  This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.

       "Regularly employed," as used in this clause, means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract.  An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.

        "State," as used in this clause, means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.



     (b)  Prohibitions.

          (1)  Section 1352 of title 31, United States Code, among other things, prohibits a recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement from using appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal action:  The awarding of any Federal contract; the making of any Federal grant; the making of any Federal loan; the entering into any cooperative agreement; or the modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.

          (2)  The Act also requires Contractors to furnish a disclosure if any funds other than Federal appropriated funds (including profit or fee received under a covered Federal transaction) have been paid, or will be paid, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan or cooperative agreement.

          (3)  The prohibitions of the Act do not apply under the following condition:

               (i)  Agency and legislative liaison by own employees.

                    (A)  The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in subparagraph (b) (1) of this clause, does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.

                    (B)  For purposes of subdivision (b) (3) (I) (A) of this clause, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is permitted a any time.

                    (C)  The following agency and legislative liaison activities are permitted any time where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:  

                         (1)  Discussing with an agency the qualities and characteristics (including individual demonstrations) of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities 

                         (2)  Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.

                     (D)  The following agency and legislative liaison activities are permitted where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action-

                         (1)  Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;

                         (2)  Technical discussions regarding the preparation of any unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and 

                         (3)  Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provision of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub. L. 95-507, and subsequent amendments.

                    (E)  Only those services expressly authorized by subdivision (b) (3) (I) (A) of this clause are permitted under this clause.

          (ii) Professional and technical services.

               (A)  The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in subparagraph (b)(1) of this clause, does not apply in the case of-

                    (1)  A payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer of employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action or any extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a covered Federal action, if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal or application for that Federal action or for meeting requirements imposed or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal action.

                    (2)  Any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action or any extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a covered Federal action if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal or application for that Federal action or for meeting requirements imposed or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal action.  Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.

               (B) For purposes of subdivision (b) (3) (ii) (A) of this clause, "professional" and technical services" shall be limited to   advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline.  The following examples are not intended to be all inclusive, to limit the application of the professional or technical exemption provided in the law, or to limit the exemption to licensed professionals.  For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable.  Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable.  However, communication with a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.  Thus, for example, communication with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services.  Similarly communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of an bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.

                (C)  Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award includes those required by law or regulation and any other requirements in the actual award documents.

                (D)  Only those services expressly authorized by subdivisions (b) (3) (ii) (A) (1) and (2) of this clause are permitted under this clause.

                (E)  The reporting requirements of FAR 3.803(a) shall not apply with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officer or employees of a person.

           (iii)  Selling activities by independent sales representatives.  The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in subparagraph (b)(1) of this clause, does not apply to the following selling activities before an agency by independent sales representatives, provided such activities are prior to formal solicitation by an agency and are specifically limited to merits of the matter:

               (A)  Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and

               (B)  Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products services for an agency's use.

  

   (c)  Disclosure.

          (1)  The Contractor who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract shall file with that agency a disclosure form, OMB standard form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under subparagraph (b)(1) of this clause, if paid for with appropriated funds.

          (2)  The Contractor shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under subparagraph (c)(1) of this clause.  An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes-

               (i)  A cumulative increase of $25,000  or more in the amount paid or expect to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or

               (ii)  A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or

               (iii)  A change in the officer(s),  employee(s), or Member(s) contacted influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.

          (3)  The Contractor shall require the submittal of a certification, and if required, a disclosure  form by any person who requests or receives any subcontract exceeding $100,000 under the Federal contract.

          (4)  All subcontractor disclosure forms (but not certifications) shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the prime Contractor.  The prime Contractor shall submit all disclosures to the Contracting Officer at the end of the calendar quarter in which the disclosure form is submitted by the subcontractor.  Each subcontractor certification shall be retained in the subcontract file of the awarding Contractor. 



     (d)  Agreement.  The Contractor agrees not to make any payment prohibited by this clause.



     (e)  Penalties.

          (1)  Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under paragraph (a) of this clause or who fails to file or amend the disclosure form to be filed or amended by paragraph (b) of this clause shall be subject to civil penalties as provided by 31 USC 1352.  An imposition of a civil penalty does not prevent the Government from seeking any other remedy that may be applicable.

          (2)  Contractors may rely without liability on the representation made by their subcontractors in the certification and disclosure form.



     (f)  Cost allowability.  Nothing in this clause makes allowable or reasonable any cost which would otherwise be unallowable or unreasonable.  Conversely, costs made specifically unallowable by the requirements in this clause will not be made allowable under any other provision.

	(End of clause)	



I.3.3    1052.203-9000 NEWS RELEASES AND ADVERTISEMENTS (JUN 2005) 



The Contractor, or anyone acting on behalf of the Contractor, shall not refer to the equipment or services furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any news release or commercial advertising, or in connection with any news release or commercial advertising, without first obtaining explicit written consent to do so from the Contracting Officer. Should any reference to such equipment or services appear in any news release or commercial advertising issued by or on behalf of the Contractor without the required consent, the Government shall consider institution of all remedies available under the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333 and this contract.  Further, a violation of this provision may be considered during the evaluation of past performance in future competitively negotiated acquisitions. 



	[End of Clause]	

		





a.	Contractor Performance Evaluations



Interim and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR Subpart 42.15.  A final performance evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work.  In addition to the final evaluation, interim evaluations will be prepared to coincide with the anniversary date of the contract. 



Interim and final evaluations shall be available to the Contractor through the PPIRS as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation.  The Contractor will be permitted thirty days to review the document and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement.  Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual one level above the CO, whose decision shall be final.



   Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will

   be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award 

   decisions. 



b. Electronic Access to Contractor Performance Evaluations 



Contractors that have Internet capability may access evaluations through a secure Web site for review and comment via the Internet at https://cpars.csd.disa.mil/cpars/app/home.do. The contractor is required to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact and who will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment. In addition, the Contractor shall identify an alternate contact who will be responsible for notifying the cognizant contracting official in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time frame. 

[End of clause]