SECTION C:  DESCRIPTION/PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

Introduction

This performance work statement incorporates the hardware, network and infrastructure engineering tasking required to support Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and United States Coast Guard (USCG) enterprise applications and information systems developed and/or maintained by the USCG Operations Systems Center (OSC) located in Kearneysville, West Virginia.  The OSC is the Coast Guard’s software development center (SDC) and hosting facility providing full life cycle support for operationally focused Coast Guard Automated Information Systems (AIS) and critical infrastructure services and components.

This performance work statement incorporates all IT support services required to provide hardware, network and critical infrastructure services and components which support current and future DHS and USCG enterprise IT systems and communications networks developed, hosted and/or maintained by the OSC.  Support services provided under this Contract include all solutions, processes, and procedures necessary to sustain systems at the highest levels of service and availability consistent with cost, schedule, and performance objectives.  These services shall include: project management, procurement support, system life cycle management, system hardware engineering, network engineering, operating system upgrades and maintenance, commercial off the shelf/Government off the shelf (COTS/GOTS) software tools integration and support, quality control, configuration management, security, hardware upgrades and maintenance, hardware/software integration, system administration, network administration, data management, computer operations, system documentation services, computer system fielding services, hardware and infrastructure technical field support, disaster recovery support, information assurance support, and operational watchstanding.  Types of hardware envisioned to be supported under the CTS Contract include but are not limited to: servers, workstations and associated peripherals, network devices, switches, routers, hubs, protocol translators, Internet access gateways, and IT infrastructure utilities.

The Contractor shall be required to work according to the architectures, standards, guidelines and procedures as set forth in DHS, DOD and USCG guidance.  The Contractor shall support any and all phases of software design, development, maintenance and enhancement in alignment with the DHS Enterprise Architecture (EA) framework, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Clinger-Cohen, OMB Circular A-11, Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (FASA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA), DHS Financial Accountability Act (FAA), and Executive Order 12958.

Background

OSC is one of the three Centers of Excellence (COEs) within the Coast Guard’s Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Information Technology (C4IT) Service Center, which was established on 9 February 2009.  A primary mission of the C4IT Service Center is to unify the Coast Guard’s information technology support structure and business practices into a single mission support model for the entire Coast Guard.  OSC’s mission within the C4IT Service Center is to provide enterprise software life-cycle support (i.e. design, development, implementation, hosting, maintenance, production operation, and enhancement) of mission critical enterprise software applications.  These applications will support the Coast Guard’s five strategic missions:  Protection of Natural Resources, National Defense, Maritime Safety, Maritime Mobility, and Maritime Security.

Organizationally, OSC business applications and support areas are aligned under one of three OSC Divisions:  The Product Lines Division, the Core Technologies Division, and the Command Logistics Division.  The Product Lines Division encompasses the bulk of the business applications developed, hosted and maintained by OSC.  The Core Technologies Division includes OSC and enterprise infrastructure services (hardware, networks, etc.), enterprise information systems, and Information Assurance (IA) capabilities.  The Command Logistics Division has oversight and management responsibility for all OSC data floors and facilities as well as Command Security operations.  An organizational chart depicting OSC’s position within the C4IT Service Center organizational structure, along with OSC Divisions and the Branches under each OSC Division, is provided as Figure 1 to follow.



Figure 1: C4IT Service Center Organizational Structure



Historically, OSC IT support services have been acquired under a single contract vehicle.  There have been four competitively awarded contracts for supporting DHS and USCG operational and business systems since OSC was commissioned in 1991.  The most recently awarded contracts include the Systems Engineering and Technical Services II (SETS II) Task Order and the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Contract.  SETS II  was awarded in June 2005 as a five year (base year plus four one-year options) cost-plus-award fee Task Order providing consolidate IT engineering support for DHS and USCG systems.  SETS II was a competitive 8(a) set-aside award issued under GSA’s ITOP II contract Government-Wide Acquisition Contract.

At the time of award, the period of performance of the SETS II Task Order was set to expire on 31 May 2010, however the SETS II Task Order was extended for a 6-month period (from 31 May – 30 November 2010, in accordance with the Continuity of Services clause) to facilitate the split of IT engineering services across two new contract vehicles: 

The software engineering services previously provided under SETS II have been incorporated into the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract vehicle (awarded on 1 May 2010).  The Core Technologies Services (CTS) Contract will assume all hardware, infrastructure and network engineering services and capabilities currently provided under SETS II.  CTS services focus on the delivery of enterprise IT services, infrastructure capabilities, and infrastructure components to support all computer, data communications, and network equipment utilized at the OSC in accordance with Coast Guard Chief Information Officer (CIO) policy and process.  

The Task Orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract will include the full range of hardware, network and infrastructure engineering services required to design, develop, implement, operate, maintain, and enhance DHS and USCG enterprise services supporting Federal IT systems and capabilities developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC.

Integrated Contract Support Services

The OSC has multiple contract vehicles to provide services to support IT operations.  A general description of each contract vehicle is provided for reference in the subsections to follow.  The CTS IDIQ Contractor shall integrate and work cooperatively with all Contractors supporting OSC requirements in order to ensure compliance with all Federal, DHS, and USCG regulations, policies, and instructions, as well as the requirements of this Contract.  

Facilities & Data Floor Management

IT support and management responsibility for the OSC data floors (classified and unclassified) and facilities are provided for under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-09-R-TWV066.  This Task Order also includes property and inventory management for all OSC property.  

Information Assurance, Configuration Management, and Quality Assurance (IACMQA)

Information Assurance (IA) includes computer security and certification and accreditation (C&A) processes and procedures.  Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (DRBC) is the process, policies and procedures related to preparing for recovery or continuation of technology infrastructure critical to an organization after a natural or man-made disaster.  The OSC IA and DRBC programs and associated consultation services are managed under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076.  The services provided under this task order ensure that IT investments managed by the OSC meet the requirements of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and Executive Order 12958.  The IA consultants will facilitate the IT systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC through the C&A process, provide oversight and assistance with on-going computer security functions, and provide consultation in the development and maintenance of disaster recovery capabilities.  It is the responsibility of the CTS Contractor to ensure that all activities included in Task Orders under this IDIQ Contract are compliant with DHS Information Systems Security Policy, DHS 140.01 as implemented by DHS MD 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook or National Security Systems Policy Directive 4300B.

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Attachment III:  Security of Federal Automated Information Resources, Management of Federal Information Resources requires that all components develop a sound Information Assurance Program.  The OSC has been directed to ensure that all systems follow the DHS 4300A and the COMDTINST M5500.13B or Information Assurance.

The IACMQA Task Order also includes services to support the development and implementation of a CM and QA program in accordance with DHS, USCG and OSC CM and QA policies and processes.  Of special importance is the alignment of all CM processes with the USCG Configuration Management Policy (COMDTINST M4130.11).  CM and QA services provided under the IACMQA Task Order will provide independent monitoring, verification, and validation of CTS Contractor compliance and alignment with DHS, USCG, and OSC processes as they relate to the systems engineering tasking and requirements allocated to the contract, as well as any supplementary Contractor CM and QA processes as approved by the Government. 

The Contractor and subcontractors supporting this Task Order are not eligible for award of the CTS IDIQ contract as there is potential for an organizational conflict of interest.  

Help Desk Services

Help desk services are provided under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-07-J-TWV342.  Services include overall support for IT application and infrastructure users, user accounts management, and business application training as it relates to existing and future computer systems and communications networks developed and supported by the OSC.

Software Engineering Services

All software engineering services required to support enterprise application software development and operations and maintenance activities are conducted under the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Contact (HSCGG3-10-R-PWV500).  The CTS Contractor will coordinate with the APLES Contractor to provide hardware, infrastructure and network services to support these software development and maintenance activities.  With Government oversight, the CTS Contractor will work cooperatively with the APLES Contractor to ensure that all software systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC comply and are in alignment with SDLC, SELC, enterprise architecture and OSC requirements and standards.  Attachment 3 provides additional information on the enterprise applications supported under the APLES Contract.

There will be a division of systems administration and hardware administration duties between the Task Orders issued under the APLES and CTS IDIQ Contracts.  Task Orders issued under APLES may include systems administration support for the enterprise application itself and life cycle support for the database management system (DBMS), including initial installation and configuration of the DBMS, on-going maintenance as well as implementation of patches, upgrades and new versions.  Future Task Orders issued under CTS may include tasking to support procurement, configuration, implementation, maintenance, enhancement, and upgrades of hardware (servers, routers, etc.) to support APLES business applications, to include implementation of firmware patches, OS patches and upgrades.  CTS hardware administration support will also include procurement of all ‘standard’ system software (operating system, database management system, backup and monitoring software, etc.) to be loaded onto the servers.  CTS will maintain all software warranties, will perform the initial installation and configuration of the operating system (OS), and will provide life cycle OS support thereafter to include on-going maintenance as well as implementation of patches, upgrades and new versions of the OS.  CTS hardware/OS administrators will be responsible for ensuring that the hardware/software platform is configured in accordance with the DHS Hardening Guidelines.  

Applicable Documents, Definitions, and Federal Regulations

Information on system documentation, OSC plans and policies, and USCG System Life Cycle Development documentation required for this Performance Work Statement (PWS) can be found in Attachment 1 to the PWS.  Attachment 1 also provides information on Federal Regulations and IT engineering definitions that are applicable to this acquisition.


Scope and OSC Organization

Scope

The parameters for CTS are established by USCG Modernization efforts and the new  construct.  CTS requirements also support the 6 DHS and USCG product line areas (human resources, logistics, finance, operations, intelligence, and enterprise information services), and support implementation, operations and maintenance, and enhancement of IT infrastructure.

The OSC currently provides software development and maintenance support for 51 IT systems within the six product line areas.  As Modernization continues, additional systems within the six product line areas may be transitioned to the OSC for software development and maintenance support and may require concurrent adjustments to the enterprise services under CTS.  The scope of the CTS IDIQ Contract will not change with the addition of any new systems as the tasking will directly align to the six product line areas and the requirements identified in this PWS.  

OSC Organization 

The OSC is organized into three Divisions (Product Lines, Core Technologies and Command Logistics), each of which has one or more Branches which manage IT systems, resources and information to support CG-wide information sharing, dissemination and support.  Each Branch provides System Development Agent (SDA) and System Support Agent (SSA) services to develop, test, deliver, and support C4IT business applications and enterprise services over the entire product life cycle, from introduction (solution engineering and planning) to disposal/disposition.

IT functions to be provided under CTS Task Orders may include: system life cycle management, contract project management, technical writing/system documentation, system administration, hardware integration, upgrades and maintenance, configuration management, data management, data entry and operational watch standing, disaster recovery/business continuity, network administration, computer operations, performance and availability testing and analysis, technical consultation, and data center monitoring and control.  These services will be primarily performed at the OSC in Kearneysville, West Virginia in support of current hardware, network and infrastructure components, as well as the development of new infrastructure capabilities.

Infrastructure enhancement and operations and maintenance activities conducted under the CTS Contract will provide services for IT business applications developed, hosted and maintained by the OSC, and will support the following DHS and USCG enterprise application areas:



Enterprise Engineering Services:  Technical consultation and IT research and analysis to investigate new IT processes, technologies, and software development and data sharing methodologies to support overall growth and enhancement of USCG-wide system design, integration and implementation.  Enterprise Engineering Services are shared across the USCG, as well as with partner agencies, with a focus on system and process consolidation and promotion of efficient sharing of system data and services.

 Infrastructure Services:  Services that support enterprise systems developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC, as well as other USCG systems and users in locations throughout the world.  Examples of Enterprise Infrastructure Services include Point of Presence (PoP)/Wide Area Network (WAN) services, DHS e-mail services, and Data Center Consolidation (DCC) services.  infrastructure services support the entire Coast Guard and some specific sectors within DHS and are therefore not specific to OSC needs and requirements.

OSC Infrastructure:  Services that are specific to the IT needs of the OSC and systems developed, hosted and/or maintained at OSC.  These include system and local area network (LAN) support services, hardware integration and hosting, performance testing and analysis, and OSC user/desktop support, among many other functions.  Although some functions may be shared out on a short term, long term, or recurring basis, these services are primarily tailored to the needs and requirements of the OSC.

Contract Performance

Period of Performance

The period of performance for the CTS Contract encompasses a one month Phase-In Period (01-30 November 2010), a one month Base Period (01- 31 December 2010), four (4) annual 12-month option periods, and one final option period from 01 January – 31 October 2015.  

Government Furnished Property & Equipment

As the contractor will perform at the Government site and the Government will retain possession and control of all property under Task Orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract.  GFP as defined by FAR part 45 is not applicable to the CTS Contract. 

No Government Furnished Property will be transitioned to the Contractor in the performance of CTS Task Orders.  All property and equipment will remain in the USCG property management system.  Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) provided will be the necessary equipment/office space to accomplish tasking associated with the PWS documents.  Typical GFE includes: office space, desks, chairs, workstations, telephones, infrastructure, and facilities support.

Place of Performance

The primary place of performance will be the Operations Systems Center located at 408 Coast Guard Drive, Kearneysville, WV 25430, and other local OSC annexes/facilities, all of which are within a six miles radius of the main OSC campus.  In addition, a limited number of Contractor personnel supporting this Contract are located at other Government facilities.  Contractor performance may take place at other than the OSC with written approval from the Contracting Officer.  The Contractor will be provided office and general engineering space, as required, within the OSC facilities.     

Hours of Operation

OSC hours of operation are 0600 - 1800.  OSC’s core working hours are: 0900 – 1500.  During the core working hours, all Contractor personnel are required to be at work.  The lunch period should occur within the hours of 1100-1300.  The Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor personnel conform to OSC core business hours and shall provide a means of accountability for personnel time and attendance to the Government periodically as requested.  

After Hours Annex Access

Access badges for all OSC employees will allow access to the offsite annexes from 0530-2200. Normal work hours are between 0600-1800.  The remote annexes will be manned by security guards from 0530-1730 Monday through Friday.  After hours is defined as 2200-0530 Monday through Friday and from 2200 Friday to 0530 Monday.  After-hours access will be authorized to OSC employees upon a request from: military personnel, government civilian employees, or senior contract managers.

In the event of unscheduled downtime or similar situation when the normal process for requesting access cannot be followed, the main campus guards will be able to issue after-hours badges for the remote annexes.

Post Award Conference 

The Contractor shall participate in a Post Award Conference that will be held approximately 30 business days after contract award.  The purpose of the Post Award Conference is to aid both the Contractor and the Government in achieving a clear and mutual understanding of all IDIQ Contract requirements and identify and resolve potential problems (see FAR Subpart 42.5). 

The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) is responsible for establishing the time and place of the Conference and will notify the appropriate Government representatives and the Contractor.  The COTR will designate or act as the Chairperson at the Conference and shall conduct the meeting.  The Conference will be located at the OSC.  The Post Award Conference will establish working level points of contact, determine the administration strategy, and the respective roles and responsibilities of the Government and the Contractor.

Travel and Related Expenses

Performance of Task Orders issued under this IDIQ Contract may require travel.  All Contractor travel in support of task order requirements must be approved in writing by the KO prior to execution of the travel event.  Travel expenses will be paid on a cost reimbursable basis.  The contractor shall cite the source of the rates used in any claim for reimbursement of travel costs.  Travel expenses incurred by the Contractor in performance of Task Orders under this contract shall not exceed:

Cost of air travel by most cost effective route, using “air coach” unless it is clearly unreasonable or impractical (e.g., not available for reasons other than avoidable delay in making reservations, would require circuitous routing or entail additional expenses offsetting the savings on fare, or would not make necessary connections); or

Cost of coach rail travel by most direct route; or

Cost of travel by privately owned auto.  However, reimbursement for transportation by this means shall not exceed the cost of a. or b. above, whichever is less.

The cost of travel by privately owned auto, and subsistence costs shall be reimbursed at rates not to exceed the Government travel policy as detailed in the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR) in effect at the time such costs are incurred. 

When possible, the Contractor shall utilize Tax Exemption for lodging.

Contractor costs for travel, including lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses, shall be allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed the amount allowed for Federal employees.  The Contractor, therefore, shall invoice and be reimbursed for all travel costs in accordance with FAR 31.205-46.

Security

It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure that the Security Clauses listed in Section H and Section I are adhered to.

Program Management

Program management is the process of managing multiple related projects often with the intention of improving overall organizational performance through the application of common management structures, techniques and programs.  Program management includes the following knowledge areas:

Transition/Integration Management

Quality Management

Project (Schedule and Scope) Management

Human Resources Management

Communications Management

Risk Management

Cost & Procurement Management

The Contractor shall be responsible for implementing, managing, measuring, and participating in all internal and external processes necessary for the adequate execution of all activities described in Task Orders issued.  The Contractor shall provide, implement and maintain the requisite organization, disciplines and systems necessary to manage the personnel and resources required for the performance of tasking.   

Transition/Integration Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall ensure the full and complete integration of Contractor Program Management processes with OSC operations.  The Contractor shall likewise ensure proper coordination with the incumbent contractor to ensure that there is no disruption of DHS and USCG missions during Contract transition.  The Contractor shall notify the KO when each transition is complete and will confirm that they have assumed full responsibility for the software engineering tasking detailed in the Task Order.

Quality Management 

The Contractor shall develop and adhere to a Quality Control Management Program (QCMP) for measuring and attaining quality of performance to ensure products or services are designed and produced to meet or exceed customer requirements.  The Contractor’s QCMP shall explain the manner in which the Contractor shall ensure all requirements are being accomplished in accordance with the specifications of Task Orders issued under this IDIQ Contract against industry standards.

A sustaining focus throughout the QCMP shall be the attainment of continuous quality improvement.  The QCMP shall emphasize deficiency prevention over deficiency detection.  The Contractor’s QCMP and any services performed will be accepted by the COTR only when in full compliance with FAR 52.246-4, “Inspection of Services Fixed Price” and FAR 52.246-5, “Inspection of Cost Reimbursement.”  The Contractor shall demonstrate a concerted effort in improving its QCMP to prevent unsatisfactory performance from recurring in any area and to ensure unsatisfactory performance is addressed and rectified in a timely manner. 

Project (Schedule and Scope) Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide project management that meets Coast Guard requirements and supports the Contractor’s business model.  The Contractor’s project management model shall address overall tasking and SDLC compliance for both development/enhancement and sustainment support activities to ensure that all hardware, network and infrastructure engineering projects are completed on schedule, within scope and meet established performance, availability and functionality requirements.

The Government is currently evaluating tools for implementation of Government Portfolio Management at a future date which will define additional standards for cost, schedule, and resource reporting.  The Contractor shall support additional reporting based on future Government requirements, which will be based on OMB A-11.  

Human Resources Management

Human Resources Management is the strategic and cohesive approach to the management of Contractor employee personnel in order to ensure that they individually and collectively contribute to the achievement of DHS, USCG and OSC objectives and goals.  

Summer Intern Program/CO-OP Program

It is the OSC’s intent to establish programs to recruit and employ summer college interns to supplement the OSC’s enterprise application support teams from mid-May through mid-August.  OSC will also establish a College CO-OP program aimed at mentoring students from the local college community.  Details on the summer intern and College CO-OP programs will be provided in the individual Task Order PWSs.

Communications Management

Communications management is the systematic planning, implementation, monitoring, and revision of all the channels of communication within an organization (both contractor to contractor and contractor to Government), and between organizations.

The Contract Management team shall meet with the KO and COTR on a routine basis as necessary to discuss Task Order progress, exchange information, and resolve issues.

Risk Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall perform Risk Management in order to identify, categorize, assess, and prioritize of project and program risks.  Risks can come from uncertainty in financial markets, project failures, legal liabilities, credit risk, accidents, natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks from an adversary.  Several risk management standards have been developed, including standards created by the Project Management Institute, the National Institute for Science and Technology, actuarial societies, and the International Organization for Standardization.  

Cost and Procurement Management

Cost management involves the tracking of budgeted/estimated costs against actual cost of operations, and the analysis of variances, profitability, efficiencies, etc in order to improve future cost management efforts.   Procurement management involves the methodology and processes for procurement of equipment, software, licenses, maintenance, etc. to support the task order activities.

USCG System Development Life Cycle/DHS System Engineering Life Cycle Activities

System Development Life Cycle (SDLC)/System Engineering Life Cycle (SELC)

The DHS Systems Engineering Life Cycle (SELC) is a systems engineering framework for enabling efficient and effective delivery of capability to users.  The SELC is used in conjunction with the USCG System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to ensure that C4IT systems and infrastructure projects are managed effectively and that end-state solutions meet user requirements while supporting DHS and USCG strategic goals and objectives.  Together, the SELC and SDLC guide the definition, execution, and management of an interdisciplinary set of tasks required to plan, define, design, develop, implement, operate, and dispose of systems.

The SDLC/SELC is a sequence of engineering phases used to produce, operate, and support C4IT systems.  These phases begin with the identification of need and span all facets of a C4IT system’s life cycle, including planning, acquisition, deployment, operation, and retirement.  The SDLC/SELC is defined by the following seven phases: 

a. Conceptual Planning/Need, Analyze, Select:  This phase is the first step of any system’s life cycle.  It is during this phase that a need to acquire or significantly enhance a system is identified, its feasibility and costs are assessed, and the risks and various project planning approaches are identified.  All C4IT systems shall be approved by the CIO before advancing to the next phase.

b. Planning and Requirements Definition/Obtain:  This phase begins after the project has been characterized and appropriate resources have been committed.  The first portion of this phase involves collecting, defining, and validating business, functional, support, and training requirements.  The second part involves developing initial life cycle management plans, including project planning, project management, configuration management, information assurance, support, operations, and training management.

c. Design/Obtain:  During this phase, requirements are translated into preliminary and detailed designs.  Decisions are made to address how the system will meet functional requirements.  A preliminary (general) system design, emphasizing the functional features of the system, is produced as a high-level guide.  Then a final (detailed) system design is produced that expands the design by specifying all the technical detail needed to develop the system.

d. Development and Testing/Obtain:  During this phase, systems are developed or acquired based on detailed design specifications.  The objective is to ensure that the system functions as expected and that the Sponsor’s requirements are satisfied.  All system components, communications, applications, procedures, security controls, and associated documentation are developed and/or acquired, tested, and integrated.  This phase requires strong user participation in order to verify thorough testing of all requirements and to ensure all business needs are met.  All C4IT systems shall be approved by the CIO before advancing to the next phase.

e. Implementation/Obtain:  The new or enhanced system is installed in the production environment, users are trained, data is converted (as needed), and business processes are evaluated.  This phase includes efforts required to implement/resolve system problems identified during the implementation process and to plan for sustainment. 

f. Operations and Maintenance/Produce, Deploy, Support:  The system becomes operational during this phase.  The emphasis during this phase is to ensure that the Sponsor’s needs continue to be met and that the system continues to perform according to specifications.  Routine hardware and software maintenance and upgrades are performed to ensure effective system operations.  User training continues during this phase, as needed, to instruct new users or to introduce new features to current users.  Additional user support is provided, as an ongoing activity, to help resolve reported problems.  

g. Disposition:  This phase represents the end of the system’s life cycle.  It provides for the deliberate termination of a system to ensure that vital information is preserved for potential future access and/or reactivation.  The system, when placed in the Disposition Phase, has been declared surplus and/or obsolete and has been scheduled for shutdown.  The emphasis of this phase is to ensure that the system (e.g., equipment, parts, software, data, procedures, documentation) is properly packaged and data/records are managed per prescribed scheduled disposition.

The SDLC/SELC process provides for appropriate technical and management reviews at specified decision points in the life cycle to measure the progress of C4IT and infrastructure projects and systems towards successful capability deployment.  These reviews allow for the timely identification and resolution of critical issues affecting the success of each project and system.

The engineering services provided under task orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract will support IT hardware, network and infrastructure components executing in the SDLC Operational/Mixed Life Cycle, Operations & Maintenance/DHS SELC Produce, Deploy, Support phase of the system life cycle.  Contractor deliverable requirements shall be mapped to the appropriate SDLC/SELC Artifact defined in Attachment 1.  The Contractor shall provide resources to support any and all phases, stages and deliverables of the USCG SDLC and DHS SELC in accordance with USCG SDLC policy (as detailed in Commandant Instruction 5230.66), DHS SELC policy (as detailed in DHS Acquisition Directive 102-01), and all DHS, USCG and OSC policies, procedures and standards.

Development Methodology

There is a strong relationship between development methodology and the SDLC process.  The SDLC is an engineering review process and practice designed to ensure that key phases are transited through the life-cycle and that key deliverables and artifacts are generated, updated and maintained to support the system over its life.  The development methodology is the specific means used to actually deliver the system and the artifacts and deliverables required under the SDLC.  The key is to define a relationship between the SDLC process and the selected development methodology as to when specific deliverables will be required and reviews held.  

OSC currently follows the Rapid Applications Development/Joint Application Development (RAD/JAD) and Agile Software Development methodologies for development of new enterprise services and infrastructure capabilities, as well as the enhancement of existing IT capabilities. The Contractor shall propose their development methodology and how this methodology shall be implemented to ensure compliance with legal, regulatory and DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture (EA) and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) requirements. 

The USCG’s rapidly-evolving technological and mission environment demands new and improved ways to:

Share critical business and mission-related information

Respond to the surging and receding emergency mission needs

Service volatile and rapidly changing support staffing needs

Leverage existing information assets to meet emerging mission challenges

Optimize the benefits of IT investments

Provide seamless, reliable and trusted communication and connectivity services to support DHS and USCG missions and comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and DHS directives.

Protect the integrity of USCG IT systems, data, and infrastructure.

Provide the USCG with common, enterprise-wide C4IT solutions and services through the implementation of Enterprise Architecture.

Support DHS and USCG modernization and transformation efforts through the consolidation of IT systems support at the designated USCG Centers of Excellence (COEs) and DHS data centers, and the integration of the Coast Guard Data Network Plus (CGDN+) with DHS OneNet.

Provide enhanced support for C4IT governance policies and practices. 

Technical Reference Model

The DHS Technical Reference Model (TRM) governs the range of compliant platforms to be utilized to support requirements for task orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract.  Conformance to these reference models is required in the performance of work described herein.  An abstract of the TRM is provided as Attachment 4 to this PWS.

Enterprise Architecture

All USCG systems must align to DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures, and (to the maximum extent possible) the technologies detailed in the DHS Technical Reference Manual.  Specifically, all USCG systems shall comply with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) and USCG EA requirements:

All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS and USCG EA.

All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile and with the USCG IT Products and Standards Inventory. 

All data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the USCG Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) and DHS EDMO for review and insertion into the USCG and DHS Data Reference Models.

In compliance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates, all network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification, upgrade, or replacement.

DHS Geospatial Information System Compliance:  All implementations shall comply with the policies and requirements set forth in the DHS Geospatial Information Infrastructure (GII), including the following:

All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA.

All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile.

The DHS geospatial data model shall be used building to the GII.

All data within the GII, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information Repository.

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)

Implementation of service oriented architecture (SOA) is highlighted as essential to achieving DHS and USCG C4IT strategic goals and guiding the modernization of DHS and USCG system development.  Therefore, an understanding of SOA governance in the context of EA, and how SOA can be used to elaborate the various EA reference models will be required in completing the requirements of task orders issued under this Contract.  The Contractor shall develop and maintain IT systems that are compliant with the SPEAR architecture.

OSC, with the approval of theCG CIO, has spent the last 3+ years architecting, designing, piloting, testing and defining the Coast Guard enterprise approach to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).   The SOA framework developed for the Coast Guard is known as SPEAR – Semper Paratus: Enterprise Architecture Realization.   SPEAR is the defined architecture for the USCG’s implementation of data as services.

Distilled SPEAR to a very simple description, the Coast Guard enterprise approach to SOA is a document and doctrine-driven, asynchronous message based, loosely-coupled implementation of services via XML documents.  By “document and doctrine driven” we mean that SPEAR relies on the doctrine, business documents (e.g. Procurement Request, Maintenance and Procedure Card), and work flows to derive, architect and compose the “services”.   While web services can be utilized at the edges of the network or public-facing touch points (e.g. the Internet in the DMZ), SPEAR is based on the use of asynchronous messages, not web services.

The Coast Guard has implemented a JMS-based Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) from Fiorano as the backbone of our SOA infrastructure.  We have also implemented XML security appliances from Vordel.  The security model for SPEAR is “trust at the edges”, relying on Common Access Card (CAC) authentication, as well as Kerberos tickets from Active Directory logons.   Other options are being evaluated for authentication of outside (external to the CG and DoD) sources.

SPEAR uses document managed state; that is, the state of a business process is maintained in the SPEAR document as messages are passed between component systems in the process.  A SPEAR document must contain certain key identifying information for purposes of routine service requests and responses, but otherwise the XML schema of any given SPEAR document is largely driven by the service provider.  The SPEAR Implementation Guide provides detailed information about SPEAR documents and the routing of messages via the ESB.

All data sharing efforts, enhancements to existing systems, and all future systems to be developed for the Coast Guard shall leverage SPEAR as their service framework for the sharing and consumption of data to and from other systems.

Data Exchange Model

The development of a common enterprise data model is critical to an effective SOA implementation strategy.  DHS has adopted the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) as its data exchange model for data exchanges between components.   In the future, this model will govern how the USCG exchanges data with other DHS agencies and systems.   However, for internal Coast Guard data exchanges NIEM is often far too bloated and inefficient.  The Coast Guard has adopted SPEAR, which stands for Semper Paratus: Enterprise Architecture Realization, as their technical implementation for SOA and data service exchanges.  The SPEAR Implementation Guide describes mandatory components for SPEAR documents, but in general the data format is much more loosely and simply defined than NIEM.   The use of established data exchange models will be required in completing the requirements of this task.

Industry Best Practices

It is the Government’s desire to benefit from industry best practices that will extend the architecture to make DHS and USCG IT capabilities more adaptable, agile, interoperable, and mission-responsive.  The Contractor shall propose their methodology for implementing and maintaining industry best practices for IT software engineering disciplines.

Data Center Migration

The USCG may migrate systems currently hosted at the OSC to a DHS Enterprise Data Center.  The Contractor shall continue to meet the requirements of task orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract regardless of the location of the system environments.  The Contractor shall provide all appropriate IT support for OSC supported systems located at the DHS Enterprise Data Center.  The Contractor shall adjust OSC staffing levels to reflect any change in tasking resulting from the relocation.  

IT Engineering Activities

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide the full range of hardware, infrastructure and network engineering services required to develop, operate, maintain, update and change hardware, infrastructure, network and operating systems supporting DHS and USCG enterprise business applications in accordance with the DHS SELC and USCG SDLC. The Contractor shall perform engineering integration across all systems, networks and infrastructure components developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC to ensure the integrity and compatibility of the applications with USCG and DHS enterprise architecture requirements.  IT engineering activities include:

Development of operations concepts, system concepts, system level requirements, and designs for hardware, software, external interfaces, internal interfaces and operations.

Technical requirements development, system analysis, systems integration and planning, and sustainment engineering.

Development of system, hardware, network and infrastructure designs.

Design review support for all approved IT project requirements, to include upgrades to existing systems, new requirements for existing systems, missionspecific requirements and new projects/systems and development efforts.

Review and assessment of the future direction of development efforts to take advantage of technical innovations that would result in increased quality, reliability or customer satisfaction for DHS and USCG IT systems.  

Development and maintenance of a set of common engineering processes, procedures, and standards to be applied to all systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC. 

Preparation of metrics data, status reports, management reports, analysis data and other reports and data to demonstrate progress & status of these engineering efforts.

Adherence to the performance availability requirements specified in Attachment 6 for each individual enterprise service supported under CTS.

Reporting the status of activities performed under each engineering category in the MPR.

Project Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide project management that meets Coast Guard requirements and supports the Contractor’s business model.  The Contractor’s project management model shall address overall tasking and SDLC compliance for both development/enhancement and sustainment support activities within specific infrastructure and network services areas.  Managers shall be technically qualified to manage, supervise and coordinate all engineering projects, sustainment support activities, and day-to-day operations of their respective enterprise service area and staffs.  Managers shall track the resolution of problems, project schedule, cost, task performance, and otherwise report status of infrastructure and network services activities and initiatives.  Managers shall be physically present on-site at the OSC while Contract staffs are performing their duties.

The Government is currently evaluating tools for implementation of Government Portfolio Management at a future date which will define additional standards for cost, schedule, and resource reporting.  The Contractor shall support additional reporting based on future Government requirements, which will be based on OMB A-11.  

Engineering Tasking

All engineering tasking associated with the first five phases within the SDLC and specific designated tasking within the other SDLC phases will be associated with a Project or Release to indicate specific criteria for project management of the tasking.  Specifically, the Project or Release will be associated with a specific scope, have a Project or Release Plan and WBS generated, and will comply with the required documentation and review processes for the accomplishment of the tasking.  Engineering tasking will be required to hold the appropriate reviews as specified within the SDLC for the various phases.  In the planning of the Project or Release, the level of who will conduct the review and give approval to continue the assigned tasking will be designated.  At a minimum, all project initiation or kickoffs and all final product deliver to be implemented in Production will require a government review and approval.  Further, the Project or Release deliverables to Production are required to follow the rigor of Configuration Management and must receive government approval before the engineering change will be introduced to the Production environment in a planned and supervised manner.

Sustainment Support Tasking

All routine, periodic and/or event driven support tasking, normally associated with Phase 6 - Operations & Maintenance of the SDLC, will be associated with a system support plan or annual maintenance activity plan.  This plan will specify the specific system support activities to be accomplished by the team with an indication of the timing or event that would trigger the accomplishment of the tasking.  Examples are routine system backup, system log monitoring, system metrics capture and reporting.  These type activities would normally be associated with a Standard Operating Procedure to ensure the proper accomplishment of the specified activity.  Additional activities may require some level of planning and testing before accomplishments such as the IAVA patching for the system OS to meet security requirements.  While this is a specific change to the system configuration, it does not necessarily require an engineering rigor but does require planning and a quality rigor to ensure it is successfully accomplished.  Again these type activities should be associated with a Standard Operation Procedure but would also be supplemented with WBS to show the expected to do tasking associated with a timeline to ensure proper communication and coordination with staff both within and external to the system team.  Activities that upon initial evaluation are deemed to require an actual engineering rigor due to code or architectural changes will then be converted into a Project or Release and added to the Engineering tasking process.

Integrated Schedules

The Contractor shall ensure that all parties involved in any engineering or sustainment support tasks are engaged via coordinated communication using an integrated schedule to accomplish the tasking.  This includes parties not only working directly for the Contractor but also the other Contractors and their staffs that may be supporting other aspects of the OSC’s mission and IT capabilities.  The Contractor shall ensure that appropriate integrated schedules are used to ensure that communication and coordination is accomplished within the Contractor’s assignment of tasking.  The Contractor shall further ensure that the appropriate integrated schedule is used to ensure communication and coordination for dependent work they may be producing that affects other OSC Contractors or for other dependent work the Contractor is expecting from the other OSC Contractors to ensure successful accomplishment of assigned tasking. These cross Contractor integrated schedules will required that one party be designated the primary for collecting, merging, publishing and communicating an integrated master schedule showing any and all tasks to be accomplished for the assigned tasking.  The designation as primary does not confer the overall ownership and responsibility for tasking that maybe tasked by the government to other Contractors assigned and working at OSC; it only confers the responsibility for maintaining the schedule on behalf of all involved so the government and the associated Contractors have a single picture and WBS to work from in making decisions on behalf of the assigned tasking.

Systems Engineering

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall ensure that all DHS and USCG IT systems, services and capabilities developed, hosted and maintained by OSC fully support mission requirements and objectives.  Contractor systems engineering activities shall be conducted in accordance with their proposed business model and development methodology.  The Contractor shall provide the following systems engineering services: 

Technology Exploration

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide resources to identify and research emerging technologies in the IT arena.  Based on this research, the Contractor shall architect prototype solutions and present findings and recommendations to the Government for their consideration.

System Design, Development & Deployment

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall define integrated system architectures and designs to meet all system requirements, to include incorporation of appropriate DHS, USCG, and OSC infrastructure components.  The Contractor shall assess all system engineering change requests, maintain a current assessment of all new, pending and active projects for each system, and provide systems coordination with external systems and development agencies utilizing components and services provided via OSC supported systems and infrastructure. 

System Operations & Maintenance

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall perform operations and maintenance on all networks and infrastructure components developed, hosted/or and maintained by OSC, and shall maintain operational services in accordance with project specific requirements.  The Contractor shall provide IT support on 24-hour per day by seven days per week basis, in response to project requirements. 

System Documentation

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall develop and maintain documentation required to support all aspects of the IT systems and services.  Services   include system requirements, user documentation, technical documentation (standard operating procedures (SOPS), system design/architecture diagrams, Interface Control Documents (ICD), Interconnection Security Agreements (ISAs)) and any other standard documentation as directed by the Government.

System Configuration Management

Contractors performing under the Information Assurance, Configuration Management and Quality Assurance (IACMQA) Services Task Order (Task Order number HSCG-09-002) will monitor and evaluate CM activities for all task orders issued.  Monitoring and evaluation will assess compliance with DHS, USCG and OSC CM policies and procedures, as well as any supplementary CM processes implemented by the Contractor and approved by the Government.  The CTS Contractor shall ensure compliance with appropriate CM processes and the overarching OSC CM Program.  CM activities to be performed for all task orders issued under the CTS IDIQ Contract include:

Preparing software and hardware builds for integrated development testing and delivery

Providing accessibility, control, and traceability of build and version history

Ensuring definitive control of executable operational configurations.  

The CTS Contractor shall ensure source code and binary compiles/builds are maintained in the Government designated code repositories.  Management of the code repositories and verification of the Production code will be a joint venture between the CTS Contractor and the IACMQA Contractor.  The CTS Contractor shall ensure that technology transfer and export documentation, rules, and regulations have been completed for each version of software, in accordance with the DHS SELC and USCG SDLC policy.

System Analysis

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall perform system analyses, trade studies and assessments to determine options and recommendations for system capabilities, design and development, and provide level of effort, risk analysis and impact assessments for all system changes and upgrades requiring configuration control board (CCB) approval.  The Contractor shall determine system functional element interrelationships and interactions, predict system performance and compare competing design alternatives. 

System Risk Analysis

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide risk analysis/assessment and define risk mitigation processes to provide overall system risk management to support continual identification and assessment of technical, schedule, cost, security and organizational risks involved with the operation of systems. 

System Testing

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall perform system testing of software or hardware on a complete, integrated system to evaluate the system's compliance with its specified requirements.  System testing shall include all of the "integrated" software components that have successfully passed integration testing and also the software system itself integrated with any applicable hardware system(s).  The Contractor shall identify defects both within the "inter-assemblages" and also within the system as a whole.  System testing shall be performed on the entire system in the context of a Functional Requirement Specification(s) (FRS) and/or a  Specification (SRS). 

The Contractor shall develop and conduct system engineering acceptance tests as required, and shall perform technology assessments, system upgrade analysis and testing, concept prototyping, product evaluations, and human/computer interface evaluations.

Technology Integration

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall assess the potential usefulness of industry technological advances in improving efficiency and/or reducing cost, and maintain knowledge on new and existing technologies relevant to DHS and USCG systems and operations.  Technology integration shall address improvement of system reliability, scalability, interoperability, and performance

System Fielding/Deployment

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide all support for the fielding of new systems and new, enhanced or updated system capabilities, as required.  The new release replaces an earlier version of all or part of a software system with a newer release.   The majority of the system deployments will be conducted via an electronic release process.  On a limited basis, the Contractor may be required to travel to a deployment site in support of field of a new system or new system capability.

The Contractor shall prepare and distribute release notes detailing the contents of the release package, to include descriptions of systems enhancements, bug fixes, data corrections, and hardware and software updates.  The Contractor shall maintain version tracking of all software and hardware releases consistent with the USCG Configuration Management Policy (COMDTINST M4130.11). 

System Training

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide application training as directed by the Government.  All travel in support of system training must be approved in advance by the KO and COTR.  The training location will be determined by the Government.

Technical Field Support

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide technical field support for all network and infrastructure components detailed under this Contract.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the OSC Help Desk to secure Tier 1 services, as appropriate, for problem resolution for field users to diagnose and correct systems issues experienced in the field.  If the Tier 1 support cannot resolve the issue, the trouble ticket will be escalated to Tier 2 for the Contractor’s resolution.

Information Assurance

The OSC IA program and associated consultation services will be managed under the Information Assurance, Configuration Management and Quality Assurance (IACMQA) Services Task Order (Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076) in order to ensure that IT investments managed by the OSC meet the requirements of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and Executive Order 12958.  These IA consultants will guide the IT systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC through the C&A process, provide oversight and assistance to the APLES Contractor with on-going computer security functions, and provide consultation in the development and maintenance of disaster recovery capabilities.

It is the responsibility of the CTS Contractor to ensure that all hardware, network and infrastructure enhancement and maintenance activities provided for under this Contract are compliant with DHS Information Security Policy, DHS 140.01 as implemented by DHS MD 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook or National Security Systems Policy Directive 4300B.  Commandant Instruction (COMDINST) 5200.3 Information Assurance Professional Certifications establishes policy and identifies certification standards for Information Assurance (IA) professionals based on roles held within the Coast Guard, and aligns these certification standards with Department of Defense (DoD) 8570.1 Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.  The Contractor will be expected to conform to these new IA requirements as they are implemented at the OSC and Coast Guard wide, to include ensuring that all appropriate Contractor personnel achieve and maintain required IA professional certifications as detailed under COMDINST 5200.3 and DoD 8570.1 for the Information Assurance Technical (IAT) and Information Assurance Workforce System Architecture and Engineer (IASAE) specialties.

Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (DRBC)

The OSC disaster recovery and business continuity (DRBC) program is managed under the IACMQA Task Order (Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076).  The CTS Contractor shall provide relevant infrastructure and support capabilities required to support the OSC DR site and ensure the delivery of an equivalent level of services for the APLES DR systems as is provided at the OSC.  

The APLES Contractor is responsible for the establishment and continued support of all application-specific DRBC capabilities.  However, the CTS Contractor shall coordinate with the APLES Contractor to provide appropriate hardware, network and infrastructure services to support the DR applications managed under the APLES Contract.  

 

System Recovery Support Services

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide personnel resources, as needed, to support system recovery for business applications supported under the APLES Contract.  For CTS, system recovery support services include, but are not limited to the capability to:



Provide hardware administration support and recovery services to ensure continuity of operations for Government systems;

Provide technical resources that shall be available on call on a 24x7 basis to respond to system downtime events and support system recovery efforts, as needed;

The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating an enterprise systems recovery support services plan with the Facilities & Data Floor Management and APLES Contractors.  This plan shall be provided to the Government for approval and updated semi-annually.

Hardware, Network and Infrastructure Recovery Support Services

The Contractor shall provide personnel resources to ensure a hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery capability that will support Government goals and objectives in accordance with established availability requirements. As a minimum, the Contractor must provide the capability for primary and backup systems to support recovery of all critical hardware and infrastructure components and sensitive Government information. The requirements for hardware and infrastructure recovery support services will be based on the analysis of strategic planning factors, the strengths and weaknesses of the hardware and infrastructure components as obtained through threat assessment and risk analyses; and cost and benefit trade-offs.  Hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services include, but are not limited to the capability to:

Provide hardware administration support for primary and backup systems supporting Production business applications;

Provide technical resources that shall be available on call on a 24x7 basis to respond to hardware, network and infrastructure downtime events and support recovery efforts;

Provide practical and effective interpretations of strategic planning for Government IT hardware, network and infrastructure components, as well as the alternatives available for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery;

Provide or assess applicable feasibility studies for alternatives available for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services;

Provide alternatives for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services that are based on feasibility studies and the analysis of cost-effective approaches to requirements for continuity of IT operations;

The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating an enterprise systems recovery support services plan with the Facilities & Data Floor Management and APLES Contractors.  This plan shall be provided to the Government for approval and updated semi-annually.

Hardware, Network and Infrastructure Component Downtime

The Contractor shall report downtime for hardware, network and infrastructure components.  Downtime for the business application, databases and system interfaces will be reported by the APLES Contractor.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the appropriate APLES Contractor personnel provide hardware support for business application downtime events and shall report consolidated downtime for business application, databases and system interfaces supported by the APLES Contractor as well as hardware and network components support by the CTS Contractor through a single downtime reporting system.  The Contractor’s hardware, network and infrastructure downtime reporting procedures shall be defined in their business model and detailed in the Program Management Plan.

System Transition

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide system transition support (on an as needed basis) for new and existing business applications migrating to OSC for hosting and support.  The Contractor shall follow SDLC, SELC, and all OSC policies, processes and standards.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the APLES Contractor to provide appropriate hardware and infrastructure services to support business applications transitioning to the OSC.

The Contractor may be required to travel to an alternate site in support of system transition.  All travel in support of business application transition must be approved in advance by the KO and COTR. 

Services Engineering

IT engineering activities have fundamentally evolved as a result of increased emphasis on the use of Services Oriented Architecture design concepts and tools.  With the continued growth and maturity of services as a fundamental IT capability (blending systems, software and data), the idea of a Services Engineering model also begins to emerge.  The Services Engineering model would mirror the phases of the USCG SDLC, but with an altered focus on the content and context of what is being developed.  There is an expectation that as the Services development methodology matures, there will be a more formal definition and documentation of the Services Engineering life-cycle model.  As industry generally leads government in new areas and best practices, it is hoped that solicitors will be bringing their views and experiences in this area to help mature the capability and the practices required for successful design, delivery and sustainment.

Hardware Engineering

The Contractor shall perform hardware engineering in accordance with OSC, SDLC and SELC policies, processes and standards and shall provide hardware engineering for all computer and data communications equipment utilized at the OSC.  The Contractor shall report the status of these activities including current project plans in the Monthly Progress Report.  Additionally, the Contractor shall publish a monthly Hardware Maintenance Schedule detailing planned hardware maintenance activities.  For Hardware Engineering, the Contractor shall provide the capabilities to perform the following functions:

Hardware Administration

The Contractor shall provide hardware administration services for all systems, networks and infrastructure capabilities developed, hosted and maintained by the OSC in accordance with SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies, processes and standards.  This will include installing, configuring and testing all hardware supporting system development and O&M functions required to support OSC systems, performing preventive maintenance on all hardware, network and infrastructure components required to support operations and development activities at the OSC, providing development, test and operations support to investigate and resolve system hardware and operating system problems, and providing real-time monitoring of all systems and infrastructure components developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC.

Hardware Maintenance & Upgrades

The Contractor shall install, test, and evaluate new hardware provided under the hardware licensing and maintenance agreements in accordance with OSC, SDLC and SELC policies, processes and standards. The Contractor shall perform any preventive, corrective, and remedial hardware maintenance not covered by any hardware maintenance agreement with an outside vendor.  This maintenance shall adhere to recommendations of original or equivalent replacement equipment manufacturers and to system availability requirements as defined under this Contract.  The Contractor shall diagnose and correct errors impacting system performance or availability, and provide fault isolation, determination and analysis to identify proposed changes. 

Hardware Testing

The Contractor shall perform quality assurance, configuration management, and formal testing of hardware platforms using a standard, repeatable test methodology.  The Contractor shall develop, and submit to the , detailed, step-by-step hardware testing procedures for configuration changes to any and all hardware supported under this Contract.  Following Project Officer approval of hardware testing procedures, perform the detailed, step-by-step testing procedures for hardware changes with a witness designated by the PO.

Hardware & Infrastructure Documentation

The Contractor shall create, update and maintain manuals and diagrams depicting the logical and physical design of OSC hardware and infrastructure components.  The Contractor shall provide system documentation services and prepare, update, and maintain documents necessary to facilitate the use, operation, development, and maintenance of hardware and network environments and infrastructure components as deed in this Contract.  The status of documents shall be maintained in accordance with the OSC, SDLC, and SELC policies, procedures and standards.

Data Storage Management 

The Contractor shall provide data storage services for all systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC based on project requirements, to include capabilities for receiving, storing, processing, distributing, tracking, converting, recalling and protecting engineering data, as well as the data storage hardware and software, and user access capabilities. 

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to provide for the organization and availability of the data.  The Contractor shall ensure that computer system disk space and file sizes are used efficiently, and make adjustments as necessary to effectively manage these resources for optimum performance and protection.  The Contractor shall manage data storage devices, such as disks or tapes, and associated storage libraries, and shall create backup files for storage and maintenance according to SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies and procedures.

Technology Integration

The Contractor shall perform technology assessments, system upgrade analysis and test, concept prototyping, product evaluations, and human/computer interface evaluations.

Network Engineering

The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and update network hardware, software, and configuration files required for the operation and maintenance of all systems and services provided by the OSC.  For Network Engineering, the Contractor shall provide network engineering services for all network equipment utilized at the OSC, to include the following functions:

Network Administration

The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and update network hardware, software, and configuration files required for the operation and maintenance of each system specified in this Contract.  The components incorporated in network administration shall include the following:

TCP/IP software

Cross-system interconnections to other systems

Communication boards and connections.

Additional components may be required for each individual system and will be identified by the Government.

Network Analysis

The Contractor shall provide network traffic analysis, capacity planning and network performance analysis, and shall manage and extend (as necessary) the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) based monitoring and event triggering of alarms of the existing network monitoring system.

Network Maintenance

The Contractor shall provide routing, local area network (LAN) support and maintenance, wide area network (WAN) interface and Point of Presence (PoP) support, and other network support required to transport data to and from the OSC.  This includes supporting appropriate protocols, firewalls, filters, encryption, Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) and other network-centric techniques to meet the security and interface requirements with external users/facilities.  

Data Entry/Validation & Operational Watchstanding

The Contractor shall provide data entry and validation, and operational watchstanding services to support data center operations and operational watches currently provided by OSC, as well as any future data entry/validation and operational watchstanding services as specified by the Government.

Contract Phase-Out

The Contractor shall provide a plan for transitioning work from one Contract to another.  This transition may be to a Government entity, another Contractor or to the incumbent Contractor under a new contract/order.  The Contract Phase-Out Plan shall be delivered to the KO and COTR for review no later than 30 days prior to the commencement of the Phase-Out period.  The Contract Phase-Out Plan shall address, at a minimum, the following items:

Coordination with Government representatives,

Review, evaluation and transition of current support services,

Transfer of hardware warranties and software licenses (if applicable),

Transfer of all necessary business and/or technical documentation,

Transfer of compiled and uncompiled source code, to include all versions, maintenance updates and patches (if applicable),

Disposition of Contractor purchased Government owned assets, including equipment, software, licenses, maintenance agreements, etc.,

Coordination with the Government to account for government keys, ID/access cards, and security codes, and

All other information as requested by the Government.

Contract Phase-Out Execution

The Contractor shall, upon written direction from the KO, execute the approved Phase-Out Plan.  The Contractor shall work with the follow-on contractor to perform the Phase-Out activities without disruption to established computer systems.

 Applicable Documents

Applicable documents for this Performance Work Statement can be found in Attachment 1 to the PWS.



ATTACHMENT 1:  Applicable Documents, Definitions and Federal Regulations

This attachment identifies the documents, definitions and federal regulations used in the management and support of this all task orders issued under this IDIQ Contract.










ATTACHMENT 2:  OSC Plans and Policies

The attached document identifies the OSC plans and policies used applicable to all task orders issued under this IDIQ Contract.










 ATTACHMENT 3:  Product Lines Systems Descriptions



The attached document identifies the current systems descriptions applicable to all task orders issued under the IDIQ Contract.




ATTACHMENT 4:  DHS Technical Reference Model (TRM)

The attached Excel file identifies the DHS TRM applicable to all task orders issued under the IDIQ Contract






ATTACHMENT 5:  Hardware and Software Matrix



The attached document identifies the hardware and software requirements applicable to all task orders issued under the IDIQ Contract.




ATTACHMENT 6:  Core Technologies Services Descriptions



The attached document identifies the Core Technologies services applicable to all task orders issued under the IDIQ Contract.




 ATTACHMENT 7:  Labor Category Descriptions



The attached document identifies the labor category descriptions applicable to all task orders issued under the IDIQ Contract.













CTS Contract

CTS Contract

CTS Contract

CTS Contract

CTS Contract

CTS Contract

CTS Contract

Phase-In Period

Base Period

Option Period 01

Option Period 02

Option Period 03

Option Period 4

Option Period 05

01 – 30 Nov 2010

01 – 31 Dec 2010

01 Jan - 31 Dec 2011

01 Jan - 31 Dec 2012

01 Jan - 31 Dec 2013

01 Jan – 31 Dec 2014

01 Jan - 31 Oct 2015

United 

CORE TECHNOLOGIES Services (CTS)

Sample Task Order

Performance Work Statement




Operations Systems Center

JUNE 2010




TABLE OF CONTENTS









































































































































































































Introduction

This performance work statement incorporates the software engineering tasking required to support Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and United States Coast Guard (USCG) enterprise applications and information systems developed and/or maintained by the USCG Operations Systems Center (OSC) located in Kearneysville, West Virginia.  The OSC is the Coast Guard’s software development center (SDC) and hosting facility providing full life cycle support for operationally focused Coast Guard Automated Information Systems (AIS) and critical infrastructure services and components.

This performance work statement incorporates all IT support services required to provide hardware, network and critical infrastructure services and components which support current and future DHS and USCG enterprise IT systems and communications networks developed, hosted and/or maintained by the OSC.  Support services provided for under this Contract include all solutions, processes, and procedures necessary to sustain systems at the highest levels of service and availability consistent with cost, schedule, and performance objectives.  These services shall include: project management, procurement support, system life cycle management, system hardware engineering, network engineering, operating system upgrades and maintenance, commercial off the shelf/Government off the shelf (COTS/GOTS) software tools integration and support, quality control, configuration management, security, hardware upgrades and maintenance, hardware/software integration, database administration, system administration, network administration, data management, computer operations, system documentation services, computer system fielding services,  hardware and infrastructure technical field support, disaster recovery support, information assurance support, and operational watchstanding.  Types of hardware envisioned to be supported under the CTS Contract include but are not limited to: servers, workstations and associated peripherals, network devices, switches, routers, hubs, protocol translators, Internet access gateways, and IT infrastructure utilities.

The Contractor shall be required to work according to the architectures, standards, guidelines and procedures as set forth in DHS, DOD and USCG guidance.  The Contractor shall support any and all phases of software design, development, maintenance and enhancement in alignment with the DHS Enterprise Architecture (EA) framework, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Clinger-Cohen, OMB Circular A-11, Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (FASA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA), DHS Financial Accountability Act (FAA), and Executive Order 12958.

OSC is one of the three Centers of Excellence (COEs) within the Coast Guard’s Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Information Technology (C4IT) Service Center, which was established on February 9, 2009.  A primary mission of the C4IT Service Center is to unify the Coast Guard’s information technology support structure and business practices into a single mission support model for the entire Coast Guard.  OSC’s mission within the C4IT Service Center is to provide enterprise software life-cycle support (i.e. design, development, implementation, hosting, maintenance, production operation, and enhancement) of mission critical enterprise software applications.  These applications will support the Coast Guard’s five strategic missions: Protection of Natural Resources, National Defense, Maritime Safety, Maritime Mobility, and Maritime Security.

Organizationally, OSC business applications and support areas are aligned under one of three OSC Divisions: The Product Lines Division, the Core Technologies Division, and the Command Logistics Division.  The Product Lines Division encompasses the bulk of the business applications developed, hosted and maintained by OSC.  The Core Technologies Division includes OSC and enterprise infrastructure services (hardware, networks, etc.), enterprise information systems, and Information Assurance (IA) capabilities.  The Command Logistics Division has oversight and management responsibility for all OSC data floors and facilities as well as Command Security operations.  An organizational chart depicting the OSC Divisions, Branches under each Division, and the specific business applications and support areas under each Branch is provided as Figure 1 to follow.



Figure 1: OSC Organizational Chart

Historically, OSC IT support services have been acquired under a single contract vehicle.  There have been 5 competitively awarded contracts for supporting DHS and USCG operational and business systems since OSC was commissioned in 1991.  The most recently awarded contracts include the Systems Engineering and Technical Services II (SETS II) Task Order and the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Contract.  SETS II  was awarded in June 2005 as a five year (base year plus four one-year options) cost-plus-award fee Task Order providing consolidate IT engineering support for DHS and USCG systems.  SETS II was a competitive 8(a) set-aside award issued under GSA’s ITOP II contract Government-Wide Acquisition Contract.

At the time of award, the period of performance of the SETS II Task Order was set to expire on 31 May 2010, however the SETS II Task Order was extended for a 6-month period (from 31 May – 30 November 2010, in accordance with the Continuity of Services clause) to facilitate the split of IT engineering services across two new contract vehicles: 

The software engineering services previously provided under SETS II have been incorporated into the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract vehicle (awarded on 1 May 2010).  The Core Technologies Services (CTS) Contract will assume all hardware, infrastructure and network engineering services and capabilities currently provided under SETS II.  CTS services focus on the delivery of enterprise IT services, infrastructure capabilities, and infrastructure components to support all computer, data communications, and network equipment utilized at the OSC in accordance with Coast Guard Chief Information Officer (CIO) policy and process.

Integrated Contract Support Services

The OSC has multiple contract vehicles to provide services to support IT operations.  A general description of each contract vehicle is provided for reference in the subsections to follow.  

The CTS Contractor shall integrate and work cooperatively with all Contractors supporting OSC requirements in order to ensure compliance with all Federal, DHS, and USCG regulations, policies, and instructions, as well as the requirements of this Contract.  

Facilities & Data Floor Management

IT support and management responsibility for the OSC data floors (classified and unclassified) and facilities are provided for under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV066.  This Task Order also includes property and inventory management for all OSC property.

Information Assurance, Configuration Management, and Configuration Management (IACMQA)

Information Assurance (IA) includes computer security and certification and accreditation (C&A) processes and procedures.  Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (DRBC) is the process, policies and procedures related to preparing for recovery or continuation of technology infrastructure critical to an organization after a natural or man-made disaster.  The OSC IA and DRBC programs and associated consultation services are managed under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076.  The services provided under this Task Order ensure that IT investments managed by the OSC meet the requirements of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and Executive Order 12958.  The IA consultants will facilitate the IT systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC through the C&A process, provide oversight and assistance with on-going computer security functions, and provide consultation in the development and maintenance of disaster recovery capabilities.  It is the responsibility of the CTS Contractor to ensure that all activities conducted under this Task Order are compliant with DHS Information Security Policy, DHS 140.01 as implemented by DHS MD 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook or National Security Systems Policy Directive 4300B.

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Appendix III:  Security of Federal Automated Information Resources, Management of Federal Information Resources requires that all components develop a sound Information Assurance Program. The OSC has been directed to ensure that all systems follow the DHS 4300A and the COMDTINST M5500.13B for Information Assurance.

This Task Order also includes services to support the development and implementation of a CM and QA program in accordance with DHS, USCG and OSC CM and QA policies and processes.  Of special importance is the alignment of all CM processes with the USCG Configuration Management Policy (COMDTINST M4130.11).  CM and QA services provided under the IACMQA Task Order will provide independent monitoring, verification, and validation of CTS Contractor compliance and alignment with DHS, USCG, and OSC processes as they relate to the systems engineering tasking and requirements allocated to the contract, as well as any supplementary Contractor CM and QA processes as approved by the Government.     

Help Desk Services

Help desk services are provided under OSC’s DHS EAGLE Task Order # HSCGG3-07-J-TWV342. Help desk services include overall support for IT application and infrastructure users, user accounts management, and business application training as it relates to existing and future computer systems and communications networks developed and supported by the OSC.

Software Engineering Services

All software engineering services required to support enterprise application software development and operations and maintenance activities are conducted under the Application Product Lines Enterprise Services (APLES) Contact (HSCGG3-10-D-PWV500).  The CTS Contractor will coordinate with the APLES Contractor to provide hardware, infrastructure and network services to support these software development and maintenance activities.  With Government oversight, the CTS Contractor will work cooperatively with the APLES Contractor to ensure that all software systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC comply and are in alignment with SDLC, SELC, enterprise architecture and OSC requirements and standards.  Attachment 3 provides additional information on the enterprise applications supported under the APLES Contract.

There will be a division of systems administration and hardware administration duties between the Task Orders issued under the APLES and CTS IDIQ Contracts.  Task Orders issued under APLES will include systems administration support for the enterprise application itself and life cycle support for the database management system (DBMS), including initial installation and configuration of the DBMS, on-going maintenance as well as implementation of patches, upgrades and new versions.  Future Task Orders issued under CTS will include tasking to support procurement, configuration, implementation, maintenance, enhancement, and upgrades of hardware (servers, routers, etc.) to support APLES business applications, to include implementation of firmware patches, OS patches and upgrades.  CTS hardware administration support will also include procurement of all ‘standard’ system software (operating system, database management system, backup and monitoring software, etc.) to be loaded onto the servers.  CTS will maintain all software warranties, will perform the initial installation and configuration of the operating system (OS), and will provide life cycle OS support thereafter to include on-going maintenance as well as implementation of patches, upgrades and new versions of the OS.  CTS hardware/OS administrators will be responsible for ensuring that the hardware/software platform is configured in accordance with the DHS Hardening Guidelines.    

Applicable Documents, Definitions, and Federal Regulations

Information on system documentation, OSC plans and policies, and USCG System Life Cycle Development documentation required for this Performance Work Statement (PWS) can be found in Attachment 1 to the PWS.  Attachment 1 also provides information on Federal Regulations and IT engineering definitions that are applicable to this acquisition.

Task Order Deliverables

Information on required task order deliverables (including meetings, briefings, and contract and task order documentation) is provided in Appendix 1.  A summary of the major deliverables required under this task order is provided in the table to follow:

Scope and OSC Organization

Scope

The parameters for CTS are established by USCG Modernization efforts and the new  construct.  Services provided under CTS will provide support for hardware engineering (including lifecycle support of the operating system), network engineering, and infrastructure services for current and future IT engineering initiatives.  Specifically, CTS will support networks (LAN, WAN and data floor), infrastructure as a service, enterprise storage, enterprise backups and monitoring, utility computing, and other critical services and collaboration infrastructure in support of OSC Product Lines.  

The OSC currently provides software development and maintenance support for 33 IT systems within the six product line areas.  As Modernization continues, additional systems within the six product line areas may be transitioned to the OSC for software development and maintenance support and may require concurrent adjustments to the enterprise services under CTS.  Similarly, growth and expansion of DHS and USCG IT systems, as well as changes in technology and industry standards, may require the development of new infrastructure capabilities.  The scope of the CTS IDIQ Contract will not change with the addition of any new systems or new infrastructure capabilities as the tasking will directly align to the requirements identified in this PWS.

OSC Organization

The OSC is organized into three Divisions (Product Lines, Core Technologies and Command Logistics), each of which has one or more Branches which manage IT systems, resources, and information to support CG-wide information sharing, dissemination and support.  Each Branch provides System Development Agent (SDA) and System Support Agent (SSA) services to develop, test, deliver, and support C4IT business applications and services over the entire product life cycle, from introduction (solution engineering and planning) to disposal/disposition.

IT functions to be provided under CTS Task Orders may include: system life cycle management, contract project management, technical writing/system documentation, system administration, hardware integration, upgrades and maintenance, configuration management, data management, data entry and operational watch standing, disaster recovery/business continuity, network administration, computer operations, performance and availability testing and analysis, technical consultation, and data center monitoring and control.  These services will be primarily performed at the OSC in Kearneysville, West Virginia in support of current hardware, network and infrastructure components, as well as the development of new infrastructure capabilities.

Infrastructure enhancement and operations and maintenance activities conducted under the CTS Contract will provide services for IT business applications developed, hosted and maintained by the OSC, and will support the following DHS and USCG enterprise application areas:

Enterprise Engineering Services:  Technical consultation and IT research and analysis to investigate new IT processes, technologies, and software development and data sharing methodologies to support overall growth and enhancement of USCG-wide system design, integration and implementation.  Enterprise Engineering Services are shared across the USCG, as well as with partner agencies, with a focus on system and process consolidation and promotion of efficient sharing of system data and services.

Enterprise Infrastructure Services:  Services that support enterprise systems developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC, as well as other USCG systems and users in locations throughout the world.  Examples of Enterprise Infrastructure Services include Point of Presence (PoP)/Wide Area Network (WAN) services, DHS e-mail services, and Data Center Consolidation (DCC) services.  infrastructure services support the entire Coast Guard and some specific sectors within DHS and are therefore not specific to OSC needs and requirements.

OSC Infrastructure:  Services that are specific to the IT needs of the OSC and systems developed, hosted and/or maintained at OSC.  These include system and local area network (LAN) support services, hardware integration and hosting, performance testing and analysis, and OSC user/desktop support, among many other functions.  Although some functions may be shared out on a short term, long term, or recurring basis, these services are primarily tailored to the needs and requirements of the OSC.

Contract Performance

Period of Performance

The period of performance for this CTS Task Order encompasses a one month Phase-In Period (01 - 30 November 2010), a one month Base Period (01 - 31 December 2010), and two annual 12-month Option Periods, for a total of 26 months of performance.  



Government Furnished Property & Equipment

As the contractor will perform at the Government site and the Government will retain possession and control of all property under this CTS task order.  GFP as defined by FAR part 45 is not applicable to this task order. 

No Government Furnished Property will be transitioned to the Contractor in the performance of this CTS task order.  All property and equipment will remain in the USCG property management system. Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) provided will be the necessary equipment/office space to accomplish tasking associated with the PWS documents.  Typical GFE includes: office space, desks, chairs, workstations, telephones, infrastructure, and facilities support.

Place of Performance

The primary place of performance will be the Operations Systems Center located at 408 Coast Guard Drive, Kearneysville, WV 25430, and other local OSC annexes/facilities, all of which are within a six miles radius of the main OSC campus.  In addition, a limited number of Contractor personnel supporting this Contract are located at other Government facilities.  Contractor performance may take place at other than the OSC with written approval from the Contracting Officer.  The Contractor will be provided office and general engineering space, as required, within these OSC facilities.  The locations and duties of off-site Contractor personnel are identified in Attachment 6 to the CTS IDIQ PWS.  

Hours of Operation

OSC hours of operation are 0600 - 1800.  OSC’s core working hours are: 0900 – 1500.  During the core working hours, all Contractor personnel are required to be at work.  The lunch period should occur within the hours of 1100-1300.  The Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor personnel conform to OSC core business hours and shall provide a means of accountability for personnel time and attendance to the Government periodically as requested

After Hours Annex Access

Access badges for all OSC employees will allow access to the offsite annexes from 0530-2200. Normal work hours are between 0600-1800. The remote annexes will be manned by security guards from 0530-1730 Monday through Friday. After hours is defined as 2200 to 0530 Monday through Friday and from 2200 Friday to 0530 Monday.  After-hours access will be authorized to OSC employees upon a request from: military personnel, government civilian employees, or senior contract managers.

In the event of unscheduled downtime or similar situation when the normal process for requesting access cannot be followed, the main campus guards will be able to issue after-hours badges for the remote annexes.

Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

A Kick-Off Meeting will be held between the Government and Contractor upon task order issuance.  This meeting should be held to discuss the Phase-In project plan and goals for any transition work.  The Contractor shall provide the following deliverables at the Task Order Kick-Off Meeting:

Phase-In Project Plan

Transition Management Plan 

Quality Control Plan 

Human Resources Management Plan 

Staffing Matrix 

Key Personnel Organizational Chart Contract Program Management Meeting

CTS Program Management Plan

Task Order Program Management Meeting

The Contractor’s Key Personnel shall meet with the government on a weekly basis to discuss the Task Order progress, exchange information and resolve emergent technical problems and issues.  This meeting shall take place at the Government's facility.  Attendees shall include the KO, COTR, Contractor Key Personnel, Division Chiefs, and other Contractor and Government staff as appropriate or requested by the KO.  The Contractor will provide the Government with the meeting minutes subject to COTR approval 1 business day prior to the meeting.

Travel and Related Expenses

Travel and all related expenses shall be in accordance with the CTS IDIQ PWS.

 Travel Reports

The Contractor shall deliver a travel report to the KO and COTR within three business days of travel which details, at a minimum: traveler name, purpose of travel, destination, length of travel, summary of activities accomplished, and a detailed breakdown of the travel costs.

Security

It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure that the Security Clauses listed in Section H and Section I are adhered to.

Program Management

Program management is the process of managing multiple related projects often with the intention of improving overall organizational performance through the application of common management structures, techniques and programs.  Program management includes the following knowledge areas:

Transition/Integration Management

Project (Scope and Schedule) Management

Quality Management

Human Resources Management

Communications Management

Risk Management

Cost Management

Procurement Management

The Contractor shall be responsible for implementing, managing, measuring, and participating in all internal and external processes necessary for the adequate execution of all activities described in this Task Order.  The Contractor shall provide, implement and maintain the requisite organization, disciplines and systems necessary to manage the personnel and resources required for the performance of tasking.   

CTS Program Management Plan 

The Contractor shall develop a Program Management Plan (PMP) for the CTS IDIQ Contract which addresses each of the Program Management knowledge areas listed previously.   The PMP shall be delivered to the Government KO for approval within ten (10) business days of the commencement of the IDIQ Contract transition period.  Following Government approval, the PMP shall be applied by the Contractor to manage, track, coordinate, and evaluate the Contractor’s performance for all task orders issued.  The plan shall consist of control policies and procedures in accordance with standard industry practices for project administration, execution and tracking, and shall include the following:

Identification and explanation of the basis for Contractor IT processes and procedures (e.g, Lean Six Sigma, PMI, ITIL, CMMI, etc.)

An Integrated Master Management Plan (IMMP) describing the Contractor’s overall management approaches, policies and procedures, including suggested project metrics; and,

A detailed staffing plan with key personnel for each task order approved by the Government.

The PMP shall be updated annually for the IDIQ Contract and for each task order issued.

Transition/Integration Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall ensure the full and complete integration of Contractor Program Management processes with OSC operations during the Phase-In Period and beyond.  The Contractor shall likewise ensure proper coordination with the incumbent contractor to ensure that there is no disruption of DHS and USCG missions during Contract transition.  The Contractor shall notify the KO when each transition is complete and will confirm that they have assumed full responsibility for the software engineering tasking detailed in the Task Order.

Task Order Phase-In Objectives 

The Contractor shall:

Assure that the incoming Contractor Key Personnel are knowledgeable about the OSC in terms of tasking, systems documentation, systems environment, existing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and hands-on operations.

Integrate operations with other Contractors supporting acquisition vehicles at the OSC.

Formally execute and successfully complete Operational Functional Demonstrations (OFDs) witnessed by the Government for all CTS IT requirements, to demonstrate knowledge and capability required in performing the services specified in the Contract.

Complete a full and thorough knowledge transfer from the incumbent Contractor in order to assume full responsibility for all IT services and support required under this IDIQ Contract.

Determine which incumbent personnel, if any, will be transitioned to the Contractor’s pay and benefits program.

Task Order Phase-In Requirements

The Contractor shall:

Three working days priors to the commencement of the Phase-In Period, identify all personnel who shall participate in the phase-in period and provide sufficient staff on-site at OSC to kick-off the phase-in period.

Establish working relationships with the KO, COTR, and other Government and Contractor personnel.

Develop a Human Resources Management Plan that supports this Contract and all task orders issued, and the Human Resources Management Plan shall be submitted to the Government for approval at the Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order 

Communicate to the KO and COTR high visibility issues, critical schedules, intentions for incumbent personnel resources, as well as requirements for any USCG resources.

Indicate a preferred schedule, within the phase-in period, for the Government to provide an OSC familiarization session for Contractor personnel under this Contract.

Provide a final Phase-In Project Plan no later than three business days after Post Award Conference.  Upon approval of the plan by the KO and COTR, execute the proposed Phase-In Plan to successful completion to align with the incumbent Contractor’s phase-out requirement of 30 days.

Provide a plan to transition from the incumbent Contractor, procure/transition and inventory all hardware and software licenses and maintenance agreements that are required to support this Contract at the Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order.

Provide a list of Contractor personnel that require access to the OSC no later than five working days following the commencement of the Phase-In Period.

Provide SF-85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions) and FD-258 (Fingerprint Cards) for all new employees within seven calendar days of task order award.

CTS Transition Management Plan

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide a CTS Transition Management Plan at the Kick-Off Meeting.  The Government has established a 30-day transition period for the incoming Contractor to coordinate and work with the incumbent Contractor.  The Transition Management Plan shall include both a written document and Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)-based Phase-In project plan with milestones which addresses, at a minimum, the following transition items:

Coordination with Government representatives

Strategy to conduct phase-in activities with minimal disruption to existing computer systems and software development efforts

Orientation phase and program to introduce Government personnel, programs, and users to the Contractor's team, tools, methodologies, and business processes

Resources to be used during the transition period

A chart illustrating the structure of the phase-in organization

Number of personnel, the associated skill levels, and the related labor categories of those who shall perform phase-in activities described by position, title, and function

For each position, title and function, the minimum qualifications required and indication as to whether the position or labor category is critical to performing the phase-in activities

Transfer and inventory of hardware warranties and software licenses and maintenance agreements

Transfer of all necessary business and/or technical documentation

Transfer of compiled and un-compiled source code, to include all versions, maintenance updates and patches

Integration of established OSC business processes and transition to Contractor’s proposed business model and processes

Distribution of Contractor purchased Government owned assets, including equipment, computer equipment, etc.

Issue and account for government keys, ID/access cards, and security codes

Methodology for reporting phase-in schedule discrepancies and conflicts

Following determination of incumbent personnel, if any, to be transitioned to the CTS Contract, provide strategy for transitioning personnel from the incumbent Contractor to CTS, with accompanying staff statistical report detailing personnel retention during the SETS II to CTS transition

Applicable briefing and personnel in-processing procedures

Working with incumbent staff, create OFD scripts, for all Contract activities for which no OFD script have been previously generated, or update OFD scripts that are not current

Successfully demonstrate, through the execution of OFD scripts approved by the Government, the ability to provide the required systems engineering and technical services specified in this Contract.  The Government will evaluate the completion of the OFDs on a pass or fail basis.  At the completion of the required OFDs, the Government will either:

Designate the Contractor's readiness to assume full responsibility for the Contract services, or

Identify specific deficiencies and certify limited authority to conduct the Contract services.  In the event of a limited authority determination by the Government, the Contractor shall take necessary steps to improve upon the deficient OFD assessment area and again demonstrate the failed OFD until successfully completed. 

Complete the OFDs prior to the conclusion of the Contract phase-in period.  In the event of an error or conflict in the OFD scripts, the COTR, or his or her designate, will determine the validity of the error, and if deemed necessary and appropriate, waive or modify the specific OFD performance requirement in question.

Upon successful completion of OFDs (with written approval by the KO) and completion of the Phase-In/transition period, the Contractor shall assume full responsibility for the Contract services specified in this Contract.

Working with the KO and COTR, the Contractor shall review current SETS II Sub-CLIN Project Cost Codes and convert them to the Contractor’s accounting system.  The Project Cost Codes shall be aligned with the associated Branch Sub-CLIN.  The Contractor shall provide a matrix which lays out each Sub-CLIN as well as the Project Cost Codes associated with each Sub-CLIN.

Project (Schedule and Scope) Management

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide project management that meets Coast Guard requirements and supports the Contractor’s business model.  The Contractor’s project management model shall address overall tasking and SDLC compliance for both development/enhancement and sustainment support activities within specific Product Lines to ensure that all software engineering projects are completed on schedule, within scope and meet established performance, availability and functionality requirements.

The Government is currently evaluating tools for implementation of Government Portfolio Management at a future date which will define additional standards for cost, schedule, and resource reporting.  The Contractor shall support additional reporting based on future Government requirements, which will be based on OMB A-11.  

Engineering Tasking

All engineering tasking associated with the first five phases within the SDLC and specific designated tasking within the other SDLC phases will be associated with a Project or Release to indicate specific criteria for project management of the tasking.  Specifically, the Project or Release will be associated with a specific scope, have a Project or Release Plan and WBS generated, and will comply with the required documentation and review processes for the accomplishment of the tasking.  Engineering tasking will be required to hold the appropriate reviews as specified within the SDLC for the various phases.  In the planning of the Project or Release, the level of who will conduct the review and give approval to continue the assigned tasking will be designated.  At a minimum, all project initiation or kickoffs and all final product deliver to be implemented in Production will require a government review and approval.  Further, the Project or Release deliverables to Production are required to follow the rigor of Configuration Management and must receive government approval before the engineering change will be introduced to the Production environment in a planned and supervised manner.

Integrated Schedules

The Contractor shall ensure that all parties involved in any engineering or sustainment support tasks are engaged via coordinated communication using an integrated schedule to accomplish the tasking.  This includes parties not only working directly for the Contractor but also the other Contractors and their staffs that may be supporting other aspects of the OSC’s mission and IT capabilities.  The Contractor shall ensure that appropriate integrated schedules are used to ensure that communication and coordination is accomplished within the Contractor’s assignment of tasking.  The Contractor shall further ensure that the appropriate integrated schedule is used to ensure communication and coordination for dependent work they may be producing that affects other OSC Contractors or for other dependent work the Contractor is expecting from the other OSC Contractors to ensure successful accomplishment of assigned tasking. These cross Contractor integrated schedules will require that one party be designated the primary for collecting, merging, publishing and communicating an integrated master schedule showing any and all tasks to be accomplished for the assigned tasking.  The designation as primary does not confer the overall ownership and responsibility for tasking that maybe tasked by the government to other Contractors assigned and working at OSC; it only confers the responsibility for maintaining the schedule on behalf of all involved so the government and the associated Contractors have a single picture and WBS to work from in making decisions on behalf of the assigned tasking.

Quality Management

The Contractor shall develop and adhere to a Quality Control Management Program (QCMP) for measuring and attaining quality of performance to ensure products or services are designed and produced to meet or exceed customer requirements.  The Contractor’s QCMP shall explain the manner in which the Contractor shall ensure all requirements are being accomplished in accordance with the specifications of Task Orders issued under this IDIQ Contract against industry standards.

A sustaining focus throughout the QCMP shall be the attainment of continuous quality improvement.  The QCMP shall emphasize deficiency prevention over deficiency detection.  The Contractor’s QCMP and any services performed will be accepted by the COTR only when in full compliance with FAR 52.246-4, “Inspection of Services Fixed Price” and FAR 52.246-5, “Inspection of Cost Reimbursement.”  The Contractor shall demonstrate a concerted effort in improving its QCMP to prevent unsatisfactory performance from recurring in any area and to ensure unsatisfactory performance is addressed and rectified in a timely manner. 

Quality Control Plan

The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Quality Control Plan (QCP) describing the set of procedures used to ensure that services provided will meet the quality goals at the best value to the Government.  The Contractor shall strive to continually improve the OSC’s ability to support DHS and USCG mission and goals.

The QCP shall describe how the Contractor will meet and comply with the quality standards established in the Contractor’s QCMP.  At a minimum, the QCP must include a self-inspection plan, proposed performance metrics, staffing plan, and an outline of the procedures that the Contractor will use to maintain quality, timeliness, responsiveness, customer satisfaction, and any other requirements set forth in this Task Order. The Contractor shall submit a draft QCP to the KO for evaluation purposes at the Contract Kick-Off Meeting. The Government shall review the QCP and provide comments within five (5) business days of the Contract Kick-Off Meeting.  The Contractor shall submit the final QCP to the KO for approval within three (3) business days following receipt of Government comments. The Contractor shall submit any changes to the QCP to the KO for approval within ten (10) business days prior to implementation of any changes. 

Human Resources Management 

Human Resources Management is the strategic and cohesive approach to the management of Contractor employee personnel in order to ensure that they individually and collectively contribute to the achievement of DHS, USCG and OSC objectives and goals.  

Human Resources Management Plan

The Contractor shall provide a Human Resources (HR) Management Plan that describes their strategy for recruiting, hiring, and retaining personnel with the appropriate skills, qualifications and experience to perform all tasking detailed under all task orders issued.  The HR Management Plan should also describe the strategy for retaining incumbent personnel who meet the qualifications of the Contractor’s proposed labor categories.

The Human Resources Management Plan shall include a roster of all personnel available to support the initial tasking.  The Plan shall include the following information: labor category title, labor category specialization (ex., Oracle DBA), and the number of Full Time Equivalent (FTE) dedicated for each labor category.  The Plan shall also address the Contractor’s strategy for maintaining proficiency of all Contractor personnel.  The Human Resources Management Plan shall be delivered at the Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order and shall be updated annually.

A monthly Training Report will be delivered to the KO and COTR detailing all training completed and degrees or certifications earned during the reporting period. 

Staffing Matrix and Labor Category Descriptions

The Contractor shall provide a Staffing Matrix for all resources that will support this Task Order.  The Staffing Matrix should define proposed labor categories that are commensurate with the recommended labor categories provided by the Government.  Any and all variations from the labor category titles provided must be addressed in the Staffing Matrix.  The Staffing Matrix shall clearly indicate a mapping of Contractor proposed labor categories to the labor categories provided in Attachment 7 to the CTS IDIQ PWS, and shall provide details of the qualifications associated with each labor category. 

Key Personnel Organizational Chart

The Contractor shall provide an organizational chart as a graphical means of displaying the reporting relationships of the key personnel in relation to primary Government management and administrative personnel.  The Contractor shall detail lines of communication to on-site Contractor key personnel as well as corporate senior management and administration.  The Key Personnel Organization Chart shall be delivered at the Kick-Off Meeting for each task order issued.  Personnel assigned to the Program Manager Levels I-IV will be considered Key Personnel. 

Contract Management and Administration

OSC’s primary management and administrative organization for the Contract includes: the KO, COTR, Command Management Staff, Branch Chiefs, Financial Officer, and Project Officers.  These Government personnel are responsible for Contract oversight, budget planning and execution, project management, financial management, acquisition support, security, and quality assurance.  To enable proper interfacing and reporting between the OSC Government organization and the Contractor management staff, the Contractor shall establish an effective management, performance, and reporting structure.  The Contractor shall provide a Contractor management staffing matrix that aligns with the OSC Government organization for each individual task order issued.

Point of Contact

The Contractor shall designate a senior person from the specified key personnel as the point of contact during normal business hours.  This person shall be located on-site during normal business hours.  Should the person be unavailable when scheduled to be on-site, the Contractor shall notify the COTR of the name of the designated replacement.  The designated person shall have the authority of the Program Manager to direct personnel and shall be accountable to the directions of the COTR.  The Contractor shall provide to the COTR a contact and backup contact who shall be on-call to make decisions as required during non-business hours.

The Contractor shall notify the KO not less than 30 business days in advance of replacing any individual designated as key personnel under the individual task orders.  The Contractor shall submit written justification for replacement and provide the name and qualifications of any proposed substitute(s).  All proposed substitutes shall possess qualifications equal to or superior to those of the key person being replaced and must be approved in writing by the KO.  The OSC may approve the designation of additional key personnel for any task orders issued.

Contractor key personnel shall work on-site at OSC and manage the day-to-day performance of the requirements of each task order issued.  The Contractor shall ensure that at least one member of their key personnel cadre is on site at all times during core business hours.

Contractor Training

The Contractor shall provide appropriately trained personnel and shall be responsible to ensure that necessary certifications are kept up-to-date in relevant areas.  The Contractor shall be responsible to provide training in order to keep Contractor personnel up-to-date and proficient in their areas of work within six months following release of new versions of operating systems, database management systems, COTS products, and other major software packages used in assigned tasking.  The Government will not allow costs, nor reimburse costs, associated with the Contractor training employees in an effort to attain and/or maintain minimum personnel qualifications of any task order.

The Contractor is responsible for any and all costs associated with training, attendance at conferences, seminars, workshops or symposiums.  This includes the direct charge of labor hours while attending training on or off-site, course/event registration costs, and travel costs directly associated with training, training materials and supplies, per diem, etc.  

The Contractor shall require its employees to take any required Coast Guard training.  The Contractor is responsible for monitoring and recording the completion of all training.  

The monthly Training Report shall include a section providing the status and progress of training initiatives for Contractor employees that includes: (1) Identification and date(s) of course/class by title, (2) Name and labor category of employees(s) trained, (3) Identification of CLIN/Product Line area supported by training, and (4) Degrees or certifications achieved.

Summer Intern  and CO-OP Programs

The Contractor shall implement a program to recruit and employ summer college interns to supplement the OSC’s enterprise service area support teams from mid-May through mid-August.  The number will be established, with Government approval, prior to the beginning of each Task Order performance period based on Coast Guard requirements and funding.  

Additionally the contractor shall also develop a College CO-OP program aimed at mentoring students from the local college community.  The CO-OP and intern positions will be funded under the respective enterprise service Sub-CLIN area.  

Insurance

The Contractor shall procure and maintain insurance during the entire period of performance under this contract, in accordance with FAR 52.228-5, entitled “Insurance – Work on a Government Installation” (JAN 1997) contained in Section I of this contract.  The following minimum insurance is required:

Worker’s Compensation and Employers’ Liability as required by applicable Federal and State worker’s compensation and occupational disease statutes.


Comprehensive General Liability Insurance:  Limits: $5,000,000 per occurrence, for bodily injury.

In addition, the Contractor must carry motor vehicle liability insurance covering bodily injury and property damage in an amount not less than $1,000,000.

Prior to commencement of work hereunder, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer a certificate or written statement of the above required insurance.  The policies evidencing required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that cancellation or any material change in the policies adversely affecting the interests of the USCG shall not be effective until thirty calendar days after written notice has been given and approved by the Contracting Officer.

The Contractor shall not employ any person who is an employee of the United States Government if that employment would, or would appear to, cause a conflict of interest.  The Contractor shall not employ on a part time or full time basis an employee of the Coast Guard, uniformed or civilian, unless the USCG has officially approved that employment.

Communications Management

Communications management is the systematic planning, implementation, monitoring, and revision of all the channels of communication within an organization (both contractor to contractor and contractor to Government), and between organizations.

The Contract Management team shall meet with the KO and COTR on a routine basis as necessary to discuss Task Order progress, exchange information, and resolve issues.

Performance Reports Requirements

The Contractor shall provide all written reports in electronic format with read/write capability using applications that are compatible with software included in the Coast Guard Standard Workstation image.

Monthly Progress Reports 

The Contractor shall ensure that a Monthly Progress Report (MPR) is developed for each Core Technology area and is submitted to the Government no later than the 5th business day of the month.  The Contractor shall develop the format for the MPR to support their business model.  The MPR content format will be approved by the COTR.  At a minimum, the MPR will include:

System availability and downtime metrics

Active and future projects

Project risks

Monthly accomplishments

Upcoming activities

System architecture diagrams

Security and C&A compliance

Risk Management

For all task orders issued, the Contractor shall perform Risk Management in order to identify, categorize, assess, and prioritize of project and program risks.  Risks can come from uncertainty in financial markets, project failures, legal liabilities, credit risk, accidents, natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks from an adversary. Several risk management standards have been developed, including standards created by the Project Management Institute, the National Institute for Science and Technology, actuarial societies, and the International Organization for Standardization.  

Risk Management Plan

The Risk Management Plan shall identify resources required to identify, monitor, and control the probability and/or impact of risks.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the appropriate Government management personnel for each project to establish delivery timelines for project-specific Risk Management Plans.  Risk Management Plans are “living documents” and shall be updated monthly to reflect the current status of all project risks.  The Risk Management plan shall include, at a minimum, the following information: 

Identification, characterization, and assessment of risks and threats 

Assessment of vulnerability of critical assets to specific risks or threats 

Determination of risk or threat (i.e. the expected consequences of specific types of attacks on specific assets) 

Identification of ways to reduce identified risks or threats 

Identification of resources to minimize, monitor, and control the probability and/or impact of risks

Prioritization of risk/threat reduction measures based on the strategy for managing risks. Strategies for managing risk include transferring the risk to another party, avoiding the risk, reducing the negative effect of the risk, and accepting some or all of the consequences of a particular risk.

Cost and Procurement Management

Cost management involves the tracking of budgeted/estimated costs against actual cost of operations, and the analysis of variances, profitability, efficiencies, etc in order to improve future cost management efforts.   Procurement management involves the methodology and processes for procurement of equipment, software, licenses, maintenance, etc. to support CTS task order activities and the enterprise applications supported under the APLES Task Orders.  

Procurement Management Plan

The Contractor shall provide a draft Procurement/Purchasing Plan within thirty (30) calendar days after issuance of the first CTS task order.  The Procurement/Purchasing Plan should identify the methodology and process for procurement of equipment, software, licenses, maintenance, etc. in support the CTS task order.  It is expected that all Contractor purchases will employ guidelines, procedures and requirements similar to the Federal Government to ensure that procurements are well defined and faithfully implemented.  The KO will approve the final Procurement/Purchasing Plan to be utilized by the Contractor.  The Procurement/Purchasing Plan must be updated annually and submitted to the COTR for approval.

The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing if there is any change in the status of its approved Procurement/Purchasing Plan and provide the reason(s) for the change.

Licensing and Maintenance Agreements

For all task orders issued, the Contractor shall provide resources to support analysis, development, evaluation, and management of a software and hardware licensing and maintenance program.  The Program will consider agency technology requirements (via the DHS Technical Reference Model and DHS and USCG Enterprise License Agreements) and will provide maximum benefit of low prices and ease of management for the organization. Software and hardware licensing and maintenance functions include, but are not limited to:

Acquisition and management of hardware and software maintenance and/or licenses from 3rd party sources or via established Enterprise License Agreements

Participation in or access to enterprise licensing forums

Evaluation of various licensing structures to determine the best value for the Government considering enterprise-wide options, availability of bundled pricing, licensing/pricing structure pricing, and other cost and performance variables

Development of price models that document the range of possible combinations of price and performance for the agency’s environment

Ensuring that all OSC hardware and software assets have valid license and maintenance agreements

Development of automated support for software distribution and license management functions, and

Acquisition and management of software maintenance and/or licenses from 3rd party sources.

The Contractor shall procure all license and maintenance agreements with software vendors as required to support the enterprise services covered under this Contract as well as the enterprise applications supported under the APLES Contract.  The Government shall provide a Government Off the Shelf (GOTS) tool for recording and tracking the status of hardware, software, licenses and other procured items.  The Contractor shall assure that agreements are in place to:

Support the legal use of all hardware and software operating at the OSC

Provide for customer support, service calls, on-site and on-call service response, and preventive, corrective, or other maintenance

Enable upgrade paths to incorporate patches, advice of upgrade versions, and receipt of upgrade packs as needed to meet individual system requirements.  Upgrade implementation objectives shall be based on standards necessary to assure vendor supportability, compatibility to other software operating in the business application, and consistent with business application availability requirements

Ensure that sufficient licensing and maintenance agreements are procured to support the requirements of all task orders.

Ensure that there is no lapse in coverage for any licenses or maintenance agreements.

The Contractor shall obtain and maintain all license and maintenance agreements in the name of the USCG OSC and ensure that the wording of such agreements does not inhibit a successor Contractor from making the same or similar arrangements with vendors.

The Contractor shall ensure that all license and maintenance agreements are recorded in a timely manner and are properly documented in the OSC Property Management Tool.  The Contractor shall provide a monthly report to the Government to demonstrate that all software license and maintenance procurements executed during the reporting period have been properly recorded in the OSC Property Management Tool.  The OSC Property Management Team under the Facilities & Data Floor Management Task Order will maintain control of all software licenses procured by the Contractor to support task order requirements and will perform periodic property audits to ensure that the CTS Contractor maintains compliance with all Property tracking and recording requirements.

Cost Reports & Invoices

Contractor invoices shall be accurate and consistent with Government invoice detail requirements stipulated in Section G.  All prime and any sub-Contractor invoice data shall be submitted in a consolidated invoice to be delivered to the Government on the 15th calendar day of each month.  The monthly invoice shall be delivered in both hardcopy (paper) and softcopy (electronic file) format. The Contractor shall provide the Government with an electronic file that is an export of the monthly cost invoice data from their selected software accounting tool.   The preferred electronic format for this data is .xml however .csv and .ods are also acceptable.  Specific data elements to be included in the electronic format are provided in Section G.  The Government is currently evaluating tools for implementation of Government Portfolio Management at a future date and this list of elements may expand as the Government defines the standards for cost, schedule, and resource reporting.  The Contractor shall support additional reporting based on future Government requirements, which will be based on OMB A-11.

Green Purchasing Program

The Contractor shall, to the maximum extent possible, support the goals and objectives of the Federal Green Purchasing Program (GPP) initiative as detailed in Executive Order 13123, this includes maximizing use of “green” products in the execution of tasking to include, as appropriate:

Recycled Content Products 

Energy- and Water-Efficient Products (Energy Star and energy-efficient products in the top 20% of energy efficiency as designated by the Department of Energy)

Alternative Fuels and Alternative Fuel Vehicles 

Bio-based Products 

Non-Ozone Depleting Substances 

Environmentally Preferable Products and Services

Low/Non-Toxic or Hazardous Chemicals

USCG System Development Life Cycle/DHS System Engineering Life Cycle Activities

System Development Life Cycle (SDLC)/System Engineering Life Cycle (SELC)

The DHS Systems Engineering Life Cycle (SELC) is a systems engineering framework for enabling efficient and effective delivery of capability to users.  The SELC is used in conjunction with the USCG System Development Life Cycle (SDLC to ensure that C4IT systems and infrastructure projects are managed effectively and that end-state solutions meet user requirements while supporting DHS and USCG strategic goals and objectives.  Together, the SELC and SDLC guide the definition, execution, and management of an interdisciplinary set of tasks required to plan, define, design, develop, implement, operate, and dispose of systems.

The SDLC/SELC is a sequence of engineering phases used to produce, operate, and support C4IT systems.  These phases begin with the identification of need and span all facets of a C4IT system’s life cycle, including planning, acquisition, deployment, operation, and retirement.  The SDLC/SELC is defined by the following seven phases: 

a. Conceptual Planning/Need, Analyze, Select:  This phase is the first step of any system’s life cycle.  It is during this phase that a need to acquire or significantly enhance a system is identified, its feasibility and costs are assessed, and the risks and various project planning approaches are identified.  All C4IT systems shall be approved by the CIO before advancing to the next phase.

b. Planning and Requirements Definition/Obtain:  This phase begins after the project has been characterized and appropriate resources have been committed.  The first portion of this phase involves collecting, defining, and validating business, functional, support, and training requirements.  The second part involves developing initial life cycle management plans, including project planning, project management, configuration management, information assurance, support, operations, and training management.

c. Design/Obtain:  During this phase, requirements are translated into preliminary and detailed designs.  Decisions are made to address how the system will meet functional requirements.  A preliminary (general) system design, emphasizing the functional features of the system, is produced as a high-level guide.  Then a final (detailed) system design is produced that expands the design by specifying all the technical detail needed to develop the system.

d. Development and Testing/Obtain:  During this phase, systems are developed or acquired based on detailed design specifications.  The objective is to ensure that the system functions as expected and that the Sponsor’s requirements are satisfied.  All system components, communications, applications, procedures, security controls, and associated documentation are developed and/or acquired, tested, and integrated.  This phase requires strong user participation in order to verify thorough testing of all requirements and to ensure all business needs are met.  All C4IT systems shall be approved by the CIO before advancing to the next phase.

e. Implementation/Obtain:  The new or enhanced system is installed in the production environment, users are trained, data is converted (as needed), and business processes are evaluated.  This phase includes efforts required to implement/resolve system problems identified during the implementation process and to plan for sustainment. 

f. Operations and Maintenance/Produce, Deploy, Support:  The system becomes operational during this phase.  The emphasis during this phase is to ensure that the Sponsor’s needs continue to be met and that the system continues to perform according to specifications.  Routine hardware and software maintenance and upgrades are performed to ensure effective system operations.  User training continues during this phase, as needed, to instruct new users or to introduce new features to current users.  Additional user support is provided, as an ongoing activity, to help resolve reported problems.  

g. Disposition:  This phase represents the end of the system’s life cycle.  It provides for the deliberate termination of a system to ensure that vital information is preserved for potential future access and/or reactivation.  The system, when placed in the Disposition Phase, has been declared surplus and/or obsolete and has been scheduled for shutdown.  The emphasis of this phase is to ensure that the system (e.g., equipment, parts, software, data, procedures, documentation) is properly packaged and data/records are managed per prescribed scheduled disposition.

The SDLC/SELC process provides for appropriate technical and management reviews, at specified decision points in the life cycle, to measure the progress of C4IT and infrastructure projects and systems towards successful capability deployment.  These reviews allow for the timely identification and resolution of critical issues affecting the success of each project and system.

The engineering services provided under this Task Order will support IT hardware, network and infrastructure components executing in the SDLC Operational/Mixed Life Cycle, Operations & Maintenance/ DHS SELC Produce, Deploy, Support phase of the system life cycle.  Contractor deliverable requirements shall be mapped to the appropriate SDLC/SELC Artifact defined in Attachment 1 to the CTS IDIQ PWS.  The Contractor shall provide resources to support any and all phases, stages and deliverables of the USCG SDLC and DHS SELC in accordance with USCG SDLC policy (as detailed in Commandant Instruction 5230.66), DHS SELC policy (as detailed in DHS Acquisition Directive 102-01), and all DHS, USCG OSC policies, procedures and standards.

Development Methodology

There is a strong relationship between development methodology and the SDLC process.  The SDLC is an engineering review process and practice designed to ensure that key phases are transited through the life-cycle and that key deliverables and artifacts are generated, updated and maintained to support the system over its life.  The development methodology is the specific means used to actually deliver the system and the artifacts and deliverables required under the SDLC.  The key is to define a relationship between the SDLC process and the selected development methodology as to when specific deliverables will be required and reviews held.  

OSC currently follows the Rapid Applications Development/Joint Application Development (RAD/JAD) and Agile Software Development methodologies for development of new applications and enhancement of existing IT capabilities.  The Contractor shall propose their development methodology which ensures compliance with legal, regulatory and DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture (EA) and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) requirements. 

The USCG’s rapidly-evolving technological and mission environment demands new and improved ways to:

Share critical business and mission-related information

Respond to the surging and receding emergency mission needs

Service volatile and rapidly changing support staffing needs

Leverage existing information assets to meet emerging mission challenges

Optimize the benefits of IT investments

Provide seamless, reliable and trusted communication and connectivity services to support DHS and USCG missions and comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and DHS directives.

Protect the integrity of USCG IT systems, data, and infrastructure.

Provide the USCG with common, enterprise-wide C4IT solutions and services through the implementation of Enterprise Architecture.

Support DHS and USCG modernization and transformation efforts through the consolidation of IT systems support at the designated USCG Centers of Excellence (COEs) and DHS data centers, and the integration of the Coast Guard Data Network Plus (CGDN+) with DHS OneNet.

Provide enhanced support for C4IT governance policies and practices. 

Technical Reference Model

The DHS Technical Reference Model (TRM) governs the range of compliant platforms to be utilized to support task order requirements.  Conformance to these reference models is required in the performance of work described herein.  An abstract of the TRM is provided as Attachment 4 to the CTS IDIQ PWS.

Enterprise Architecture

All USCG systems must align to the DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures, and (to the maximum extent possible) the technologies detailed in the DHS Technical Reference Manual.  Specifically, all USCG systems shall comply with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) and USCG EA requirements:

All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS and USCG EA.

All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile and with the USCG IT Products and Standards Inventory. 

All data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the USCG Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) and DHS EDMO for review and insertion into the USCG and DHS Data Reference Models.

In compliance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates, all network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification, upgrade, or replacement.

DHS Geospatial Information System Compliance: All implementations shall comply with the policies and requirements set forth in the DHS Geospatial Information Infrastructure (GII), including the following:

All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA.

All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile.

The DHS geospatial data model shall be used building to the GII.

All data within the GII, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information Repository.

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)

Implementation of service oriented architecture (SOA) is highlighted as essential to achieving DHS and USCG C4IT strategic goals and guiding the modernization of DHS and USCG system development.  Therefore, an understanding of SOA governance in the context of EA, and how SOA can be used to elaborate the various EA reference models will be required in completing task order requirements.  The Contractor shall develop and maintain IT systems that are compliant with the SPEAR architecture.

OSC, with the approval of the CG CIO, has spent the last 3+ years architecting, designing, piloting, testing and defining the Coast Guard enterprise approach to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).   The SOA framework developed for the Coast Guard is known as SPEAR – Semper Paratus: Enterprise Architecture Realization.   SPEAR is the defined architecture for the USCG’s implementation of data as services.

Distilled SPEAR to a very simple description, the Coast Guard enterprise approach to SOA is a document and doctrine-driven, asynchronous message based, loosely-coupled implementation of services via XML documents.  By “document and doctrine driven” we mean that SPEAR relies on the doctrine, business documents (e.g. Procurement Request, Maintenance and Procedure Card), and work flows to derive, architect and compose the “services”.   While web services can be utilized at the edges of the network or public-facing touch points (e.g. the Internet in the DMZ), SPEAR is based on the use of asynchronous messages, not web services.

The Coast Guard has implemented a JMS-based Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) from Fiorano as the backbone of our SOA infrastructure.  We have also implemented XML security appliances from Vordel.  The security model for SPEAR is “trust at the edges”, relying on Common Access Card (CAC) authentication, as well as Kerberos tickets from Active Directory logons.   Other options are being evaluated for authentication of outside (external to the CG and DoD) sources.

SPEAR uses document managed state; that is, the state of a business process is maintained in the SPEAR document as messages are passed between component systems in the process.  A SPEAR document must contain certain key identifying information for purposes of routine service requests and responses, but otherwise the XML schema of any given SPEAR document is largely driven by the service provider.  The SPEAR Implementation Guide provides detailed information about SPEAR documents and the routing of messages via the ESB.

All data sharing efforts, enhancements to existing systems, and all future systems to be developed for the Coast Guard shall leverage SPEAR as their service framework for the sharing and consumption of data to and from other systems.

Data Exchange Model

The development of a common enterprise data model is critical to an effective SOA implementation strategy.  DHS has adopted the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) as its data exchange model for data exchanges between components.   In the future, this model will govern how the USCG exchanges data with other DHS agencies and systems.   However, for internal Coast Guard data exchanges NIEM is often far too bloated and inefficient.  The Coast Guard has adopted SPEAR, which stands for Semper Paratus: Enterprise Architecture Realization, as their technical implementation for SOA and data service exchanges.  The SPEAR Implementation Guide describes mandatory components for SPEAR documents, but in general the data format is much more loosely and simply defined than NIEM.   The use of established data exchange models will be required in completing the requirements of this task.

.

Industry Best Practices

It is the Government’s desire to benefit from industry best practices that will extend the architecture to make DHS and USCG IT capabilities more adaptable, agile, interoperable, and mission-responsive.  The Contractor shall propose their methodology for implementing and maintaining industry best practices for IT software engineering disciplines.

Data Center Migration

The USCG may migrate systems currently hosted at the OSC to a DHS Enterprise Data Center.  The Contractor shall continue to meet the requirements of this Task Order regardless of the location of the system environments.  The Contractor shall provide all appropriate IT support for OSC supported systems located at the DHS Enterprise Data Center.  The Contractor shall adjust OSC staffing levels to reflect any change in tasking resulting from the relocation.  

IT Engineering Activities

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide the full range of hardware, infrastructure and network engineering services required to develop, operate, maintain, update and change hardware, infrastructure, network and operating systems supporting DHS and USCG enterprise business applications in accordance with the DHS SELC and USCG SDLC. The Contractor shall perform engineering integration across all systems, networks and infrastructure components developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC to ensure the integrity and compatibility of the applications with USCG and DHS enterprise architecture requirements.  IT engineering activities include:

Development of operations concepts, system concepts, system level requirements, and designs for hardware, software, external interfaces, internal interfaces and operations.

Technical requirements development, system analysis, systems integration and planning, and sustainment engineering.

Development of system and software designs.

Design review support for all approved IT project requirements, to include upgrades to existing systems, new requirements for existing systems, mission specific requirements and new projects/systems and development efforts.

Review and assessment of the future direction of development efforts to take advantage of technical innovations that would result in increased quality, reliability or customer satisfaction for DHS and USCG IT systems.  

Development and maintenance of a set of common engineering processes, procedures, and standards to be applied to all systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC. 

Preparation of metrics data, status reports, management reports, analysis data and other reports and data to demonstrate progress & status of these engineering efforts.

Adherence to the performance availability requirements specified in Attachment 6 for each individual enterprise service supported under CTS.

Project Management

The Contractor shall provide project management that supports the Contractor business model for all engineering activities and tasking.  The Contractor’s project management model shall address overall tasking and direction of work groups assigned to IT capabilities operating within specific OSC Product Lines.

Managers shall be technically qualified to manage and supervise the day-to-day operations and coordination of their respective Product Line business area and staffs.  The Government is currently evaluating tools for implementation of Government Portfolio Management at a future date which will define the standards for cost, schedule, and resource reporting.  The Contractor shall support additional reporting based on future Government requirements, which will be based on OMB A-11.  The managers shall track the resolution of problems, project schedule and performance, and otherwise report status of business application activities and initiatives.  Managers shall be physically present on-site at the OSC while Contract staffs are performing their duties.

Systems Engineering

The Contractor shall ensure that all DHS and USCG IT systems, services and capabilities developed, hosted and maintained by OSC fully support mission requirements and objectives.   Contractor Systems engineering activities shall be conducted in accordance with their proposed business model and development methodology.  The CTS Contractor shall work cooperatively with all other OSC contracts and support personnel to ensure seamless integration of systems engineering services. The CTS Contractor shall provide the following systems engineering services: 

Technology Exploration

The Contractor shall provide resources to identify and research emerging technologies in the IT arena.  Based on this research, the Contractor shall architect prototype solutions and present findings and recommendations to the Government for their consideration.

System Design, Development & Deployment

The Contractor shall define integrated system architectures and designs to meet all system requirements, to include incorporation of appropriate DHS, USCG, and OSC infrastructure components.  The Contractor shall assess all system engineering change requests, maintain a current assessment of all new, pending and active projects for each system, and provide systems coordination with external systems and development agencies utilizing components and services provided via OSC supported systems and infrastructure. 

System Operations & Maintenance

The Contractor shall perform operations and maintenance on all network and infrastructure components developed, hosted/or and maintained by OSC, and shall maintain operational services in accordance with project specific requirements. The Contractor shall provide IT support on 24-hour per day by 7 days per week basis, in response to project requirements, and report system availability in accordance with the requirements in Attachment 6 to the CTS IDIQ PWS. 

System Documentation

The Contractor shall develop and maintain documentation required to support all aspects of the IT systems and services include system requirements, user documentation, technical documentation (standard operating procedures (SOPS), system design/architecture diagrams, Interface Control Documents (ICD), Interconnection Security Agreements (ISAs)) and any other standard documentation as directed by the Government.

System Performance Metrics

The Contractor shall develop performance metrics to be approved by the Government and shall deliver these performance metrics monthly as part of the MPR.

System Configuration Management

Contractors performing under the Information Assurance, Configuration Management and Quality Assurance (IACMQA) Services Task Order (Task Order number HSCG-09-002) will monitor and evaluate CM activities.  Monitoring and evaluation will assess compliance with DHS, USCG and OSC CM policies and procedures, as well as any supplementary CM processes implemented by the Contractor and approved by the Government.  The CTSS Contractor shall ensure compliance with appropriate CM processes and the overarching OSC CM Program.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the IACMQA Contractor to maintain compliance with software configuration control requirements for the network and infrastructure components developed, hosted and/or maintained by OSC. CM activities to be performed under this task order include:

Preparing software builds for integrated development testing and delivery

Providing accessibility, control, and traceability of build and version history

Ensuring definitive control of executable operational configurations.

The Contractor shall ensure source code and binary compiles/builds are maintained in the Government designated code repositories.  Management of the code repositories and verification of the Production code will be a joint venture between the CTS Contractor and the IACMQA Contractor.  The CTS Contractor shall ensure that technology transfer and export documentation, rules, and regulations have been completed for each version of software, in accordance with DHS SELC and USCG SDLC policy.

System Analysis

The Contractor shall perform system analyses, trade studies and assessments to determine options and recommendations for system capabilities, design and development, and provide level of effort, risk analysis and impact assessments for all system changes and upgrades requiring configuration control board (CCB) approval.  The Contractor shall determine system functional element interrelationships and interactions, predict system performance and compare competing design alternatives. 

System Risk Analysis

The Contractor shall provide risk analysis/assessment and define risk mitigation processes to provide overall system risk management to support continual identification and assessment of technical, schedule, cost, security and organizational risks involved with the operation of systems. 

System Testing

The Contractor shall perform system testing of software or hardware on a complete, integrated system to evaluate the system's compliance with its specified requirements.  System testing shall include all of the "integrated" software components that have successfully passed integration testing and also the software system itself integrated with any applicable hardware system(s). The Contractor shall identify defects both within the "inter-assemblages" and also within the system as a whole. System testing shall be performed on the entire system in the context of a Functional Requirement Specification(s) (FRS) and/or a  Specification (SRS). 

The Contractor shall develop and conduct system engineering acceptance tests as required, and shall perform technology assessments, system upgrade analysis and testing, concept prototyping, product evaluations, and human/computer interface evaluations.

System Performance Testing & Analysis

The Contractor shall execute performance testing covering a broad range of engineering or functional evaluations to ensure that the integrated system is compliant with specified performance requirements.  Performance testing shall address both the software components and the hardware on which the software is hosted to verify whether a person is able to perform the system functions.

The Contractor shall determine the speed or effectiveness of a computer, network, software program or device. The process shall involve quantitative tests done in a lab, such as measuring the response time at which a system functions. Qualitative attributes such as reliability, scalability and interoperability shall also be evaluated. Performance testing shall include system stress testing.

The Contractor shall conduct system performance studies, recommending appropriate changes to eliminate potential system bottlenecks, resource conflicts and system overloads.

Technology Integration

The Contractor shall assess the potential usefulness of industry technological advances in improving efficiency and/or reducing cost, and maintain knowledge on new and existing technologies relevant to DHS and USCG systems and operations.  Technology integration shall address improvement of system reliability, scalability, interoperability, and performance

System Fielding/Deployment

The Contractor shall provide all support for the fielding of new systems and new, enhanced or updated system capabilities, as required.  The new release replaces an earlier version of all or part of a software system with a newer release.   The majority of the system deployments will be conducted via an electronic release process.  On a limited basis, the Contractor may be required to travel to a deployment site in support of fielding a new system or new system capability.

The Contractor shall prepare and distribute release notes detailing the contents of the release package, to include descriptions of systems enhancements, bug fixes, data corrections, and hardware and software updates.  The Contractor shall maintain version tracking of all software and hardware releases consistent with the USCG Configuration Management Policy (COMDTINST M4130.11). 

Core Technologies Services Training

As directed by the Government, the Contractor shall provide training on core technologies services to OSC Contractors and Federal employees, personnel supporting other USCG Commands, and personnel supporting DHS and other Federal Departments and Agencies.  All travel in support of system training must be approved in advance by the COTR and KO.  The training location will be determined by the Government.

Technical Field Support

The Contractor shall provide technical field support for all network and infrastructure components detailed under this Contract.   The Contractor shall coordinate with the OSC Help Desk to secure Tier 1 services, as appropriate, for problem resolution for field users to diagnose and correct systems issues experienced in the field.  If the Tier 1 support cannot resolve the issue, the trouble ticket will be escalated to Tier 2 for the Contractor’s resolution.

Information Assurance

The OSC IA program and associated consultation services will be managed under the Information Assurance, Configuration Management and Quality Assurance (IACMQA) Services Task Order (Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076) in order to ensure that IT investments managed by the OSC meet the requirements of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and Executive Order 12958.  These IA consultants will guide the IT systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC through the C&A process, provide oversight and assistance to the CTS Contractor with on-going computer security functions, and provide consultation in the development and maintenance of disaster recovery capabilities.

It is the responsibility of the CTS Contractor to ensure that all hardware, network and infrastructure enhancement and maintenance activities provided for under this Contract are compliant with DHS Information Security Policy, DHS 140.01 as implemented by DHS MD 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook or National Security Systems Policy Directive 4300B.  Commandant Instruction (COMDINST) 5200.3 Information Assurance Professional Certifications establishes policy and identifies certification standards for Information Assurance (IA) professionals based on roles held within the Coast Guard, and aligns these certification standards with Department of Defense (DoD) 8570.1 Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.  The Contractor will be expected to conform to these new IA requirements as they are implemented at the OSC and Coast Guard wide, to include ensuring that all appropriate Contractor personnel achieve and maintain required IA professional certifications as detailed under COMDINST 5200.3 and DoD 8570.1 for the Information Assurance Technical (IAT) and Information Assurance Workforce System Architecture and Engineer (IASAE) specialties.

Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (DRBC)

The OSC disaster recovery and business continuity (DRBC) program is managed under the IACMQA Task Order (Task Order # HSCGG3-09-J-TWV076).  The CTS Contractor shall provide relevant infrastructure and support capabilities required to support the OSC DR site and ensure the delivery of an equivalent level of services for the APLES DR systems as is provided at the OSC.  

The APLES Contractor is responsible for the establishment and continued support of all application-specific DRBC capabilities.  However, the CTS Contractor shall coordinate with the APLES Contractor to provide appropriate hardware, network and infrastructure services to support the DR applications managed under the APLES Contract.  

System Recovery Support Services

The Contractor shall provide personnel resources to ensure a system recovery capability that will support Government goals and objectives in accordance with established system availability requirements.  At a minimum, the Contractor must provide the capability for primary and backup systems to support recovery of all critical software programs and sensitive Government information. The requirements for system recovery support services will be based on the analysis of strategic planning factors; the strengths and weaknesses of the system, as obtained through threat assessment and risk analyses; and cost and benefit trade-offs.  System recovery support services include, but are not limited to the capability to:

Provide primary and backup systems to support recovery services that ensure continuity of operations for Government systems;

Provide technical resources that shall be available on call on a 24x7 basis to respond to system downtime events and support system recovery efforts;

Provide practical and effective interpretations of strategic planning for Government IT systems as well as the alternatives available for system recovery;

Provide or assess applicable feasibility studies for alternatives available for system recovery support services;

Provide alternatives for system recovery support services that are based on feasibility studies and the analysis of cost-effective approaches to requirements for continuity of IT operations;

The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating an enterprise systems recovery support services plan with the Facilities & Data Floor Management Contractors.  This plan shall be provided to the Government for approval and updated semi-annually.

Hardware, Network and Infrastructure Recovery Support Services

The Contractor shall provide personnel resources to ensure a hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery capability that will support Government goals and objectives in accordance with established availability requirements. As a minimum, the Contractor must provide the capability for primary and backup systems to support recovery of all critical hardware and infrastructure components and sensitive Government information. The requirements for hardware and infrastructure recovery support services will be based on the analysis of strategic planning factors, the strengths and weaknesses of the hardware and infrastructure components as obtained through threat assessment and risk analyses; and cost and benefit trade-offs.  Hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services include, but are not limited to the capability to:

Provide hardware administration support for primary and backup systems supporting Production business applications;

Provide technical resources that shall be available on call on a 24x7 basis to respond to hardware, network and infrastructure downtime events and support recovery efforts;

Provide practical and effective interpretations of strategic planning for Government IT hardware, network and infrastructure components, as well as the alternatives available for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery;

Provide or assess applicable feasibility studies for alternatives available for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services;

Provide alternatives for hardware, network and infrastructure component recovery support services that are based on feasibility studies and the analysis of cost-effective approaches to requirements for continuity of IT operations;

The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating an enterprise systems recovery support services plan with the Facilities & Data Floor Management and APLES Contractors.  This plan shall be provided to the Government for approval and updated semi-annually.

Hardware, Network and Infrastructure Component Downtime

The Contractor shall report downtime for hardware, network and infrastructure components.  Downtime for the business application, databases and system interfaces will be reported by the APLES Contractor.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the appropriate APLES Contractor personnel to provide hardware support for business application downtime events.  The CTS contractor shall report downtime related to hardware, network, and infrastructure components.  The Contractor’s hardware, network and infrastructure downtime reporting procedures shall be defined in their business model and detailed in the Program Management Plan.

Hardware, Network, and Infrastructure Components Availability

The Contractor shall ensure compliance with availability requirements detailed in Attachment 6 to the CTS IDIQ PWS for hardware, network, and infrastructure components.  In addition, the CTS Contractor shall ensure that Hardware, Network, and Infrastructure availability meets the availability requirements for the APLES Product Line applications specified in Attachment 3 to the CTS IDIQ PWS.  The Contractor shall calculate actual availability monthly and compare the results of actual performance with the stated requirements in the MPR.  The definition of and formula for calculating monthly availability is:

A = [ ( T - B ) / ( T - M ) ] x 100

Where A = availability in percent

T = total minutes in the time period (typically monthly)

M = total minutes of actual downtime for scheduled, approved maintenance in the time period (typically monthly)

B = total minutes of accumulated downtime (actual downtime for scheduled, approved maintenance [M from above] plus the total of all actual unscheduled downtime) in the time period (typically monthly).

NOTE:  M reflects only the time the system is actually down for scheduled downtime and does not include any unscheduled downtime.  Therefore, the value of M will typically be zero during normal working hours unless scheduled downtime is previously agreed upon with the Government.

Scheduled Downtime

The Contractor shall schedule hardware, network and infrastructure component downtime during Government approved maintenance windows as defined in Attachment 6 to the CTS IDIQ PWS for each enterprise services area specified in this Task Order.  The Contractor shall provide a schedule of planned downtime events to the Government on the first business day of every month.   The Contractor shall:

Schedule system downtime outside the defined normal working hours, local time.  Exceptions require prior approval from the Government 24 hours in advance

Initiate broadcast announcements to downtime distribution groups through email, record message traffic, and/or any other Contractor capability

Provide announcements and notifications at least 5 working days prior to scheduled downtime.  Announcements shall be for the purpose of communicating advisories to user communities regarding changes in availability

Provide updates to downtime distribution groups if the downtime is expected to exceed the downtime window

Take corrective action as needed to restore required availability and update documentation 

Coordinate hardware support for downtime associated with APLES Product Line business applications

The CTS Contractor shall support the APLES Product Lines business application to include:

OS patches and upgrades

 Firmware upgrades

 DHS server hardening

Hardware recapitalization

Hardware maintenance

Unscheduled Downtime

The Contractor shall respond to unscheduled events or notifications of events that reduce or may reduce the availability of hardware, network and infrastructure components to a level below that required.  The Contractor shall take corrective actions needed to restore required availability and ensure appropriate updates to affected documentation.

The Contractor shall report unscheduled downtime for hardware, network, and infrastructure components in the MPR.  An initial assessment of the downtime event shall be reported to the Government within 24 hours of the downtime event.  When a final assessment of the downtime event has been determined, the Contractor shall report their findings to the Government in the MPR.  The Contractor shall evaluate trends in unscheduled downtime, recommend improvements to minimize impacts on IT operations, and recommend changes and improvements to the Government.

System Transition

For all Task Orders issued, the Contractor shall provide system transition support (on an as needed basis) for new and existing business applications migrating to OSC for hosting and support.  The Contractor shall follow SDLC, SELC, and all OSC policies, processes and standards.  The Contractor shall provide appropriate hardware and infrastructure services to support business applications transitioning to the OSC.

The Contractor may be required to travel to an alternate site in support of system transition.  All travel in support of system transitions must be approved in advance by the KO and COTR. 

Hardware Engineering

The Contractor shall perform hardware engineering in accordance with OSC, SDLC and SELC policies, processes and standards and shall provide hardware engineering for all computer and data communications equipment utilized at the OSC.  The Contractor shall report the status of these activities including current project plans in the Monthly Progress Report.  Additionally, the Contractor shall publish a monthly Hardware Maintenance Schedule detailing planned hardware maintenance activities.  For Hardware Engineering, the Contractor shall provide the capabilities to perform the following functions:

Hardware Administration

The Contractor shall provide hardware administration services for all systems, networks and infrastructure capabilities developed, hosted and maintained by the OSC in accordance with SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies, processes and standards.

The Contractor shall install, configure and test all hardware required to support networks, infrastructure and systems supported by OSC.  The Contractor shall configure hardware for integrated development testing, delivery, and accessibility control of operational configurations, and shall perform preventive maintenance on all hardware, network and infrastructure components required to support operations and development activities at the OSC.

The Contractor shall provide hardware support to include full lifecycle support of the operating system (OS).  OS support will include initial OS installation and configuration, on-going maintenance, and implementation of all patches and upgrades to ensure continued compliance with EA and security requirements. 

The Contractor shall provide development, test and operations support to investigate and resolve hardware and operating system problems.  The Contractor shall configure system and network audit capabilities to collect and log security audit and network performance data, review network and system security audit logs daily, and provide backups and failure recovery services for all operational and development systems.  

The Contractor support shall include procurement, initial configuration, and lifecycle support of hardware and standard software (OS, backup and monitoring tools, and associated maintenance).  

Hardware administration shall include infrastructure as a service, enterprise storage, enterprise backups and monitoring, utility computing, and other critical services and collaboration infrastructure.  

IT Resource Management Support

The Contractor shall provide IT resource management for computer hardware and software required to support IT systems, hardware and infrastructure components developed, hosted and maintained at the OSC.  Specifically, the Contractor shall develop, implement, maintain and execute parameters and procedures for:

Procurement of all hardware and maintenance of all hardware warranty agreements

Procurement of all OS and DBMS licenses and maintenance of all applicable software warranty agreements, and shall leverage established DHS and USCG Enterprise License Agreements (ELAs)

Automated and/or manual monitoring of daily system operations

Responding to monitoring alarms and warnings

Automated and manual full and incremental backups

Recovery and restore operations from backups.

Coordinating with the APLES Product Lines to perform backups and restores in accordance with the each system’s SOP. 

Coordinating with the APLES Product Lines to ensure the capabilities of file and database restores and system recovery to meet system availability as well as the OSC’s and the system’s business and disaster recovery requirements. 

Defining operating parameters for monitoring, backups, and restore and recovery that are consistent with existing OSC policy and procedures.

Security, Control and Audit

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to ensure the security, control and auditing of each system specified in this Contract.

Maintain user access control lists, and make changes to such lists only in accordance with Government-approved SOPs, or at the direction of the Project Officer.  User access control lists shall be for the purpose of delineating authorized access to hardware, infrastructure components, communications networks, and data.  User access control lists shall be available at all times to the Government Command Security Officer and respective Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO).

Provide data security and integrity using industry standard procedures for file protection (i.e. read, write, execute and delete) and file system management (e.g. object libraries, revision control, modification date-time stamping, and system access log files).

Production Control

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to provide for effective and efficient production control.

Use production controls and schedules to prioritize and execute production system processes. 

Ensure that production controls are compatible with OSC’s configuration management and quality assurance requirements.

Provide production control to prioritize allocation of infrastructure resources to systems in the event of a degradation or failure of service.

Performance Management and Accounting

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to provide for effective and efficient performance monitoring and resource accounting.

Monitor the activities of the system, including memory consumption and allocation, input/output response time, read/write access time, and CPU usage.

Provide system tuning and load balancing to ensure that the system is operating efficiently.

Monitor the system to determine the resource usage requirements.  This includes analyzing the usage trends for particular resources and ensuring that those resources are sufficiently available when required.

User Account Administration

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to provide user account administration, establish and maintain system, group and individual user names, passwords and privileges as required, and establish and maintain login scripts, operating system shells, environmental variables, and logical names necessary to provide each user's operating environment.

Hardware Maintenance & Upgrades

The Contractor shall install, test, and evaluate new hardware provided under the hardware licensing and maintenance agreements in accordance with SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies, processes and standards. The Contractor shall perform any preventive, corrective, and remedial hardware maintenance not covered by any hardware maintenance agreement with an outside vendor.  This maintenance shall adhere to recommendations of original or equivalent replacement equipment manufacturers and to system availability requirements as defined under this Contract.

Hardware Errors

The Contractor shall diagnose and correct errors impacting system performance or availability, and provide fault isolation, determination and analysis to identify proposed changes. 

Hardware Performance Level & Efficiency

The Contractor shall test, analyze and report the current performance level and efficiency of hardware, to include analysis of current levels of capacity and percent utilization, identification of problems with present capacity and utilization, identification of current hardware and software dependencies, and recommendation of improvement alternatives. The Contractor shall conduct system performance studies, recommending appropriate changes to isolate the source of system problems, eliminate potential system bottlenecks, resource conflicts, and system overloads. The Contractor shall also perform capacity analysis of existing computational, storage and backup systems and supporting resources to ensure that systems performance is compatible with specific system requirements, providing capacity planning recommendations based on analysis and changes in requirements and technology.

Testing

The Contractor shall perform formal testing of hardware platforms using a standard, repeatable test methodology.  The Contractor shall develop, and submit to the , detailed, step-by-step hardware testing procedures for configuration changes to any and all hardware supported under this Contract.  Following Project Officer approval of hardware testing procedures, the Contractor shall perform the detailed, step-by-step testing procedures for hardware changes with a witness designated by the PO.

The CTS Contractor shall coordinate with the APLES Product Lines for testing of all hardware upgrades, as well as all patches, upgrades and configuration changes to OS and firmware.

Hardware, Network & Infrastructure Documentation

The Contractor shall create, update and maintain manuals and diagrams depicting the logical and physical design of OSC hardware, network and infrastructure components. The Contractor shall provide system documentation services and prepare, update, and maintain documents necessary to facilitate the use, operation, development, and maintenance of hardware, network and infrastructure components as deed in this Contract.  The status of documents shall be maintained in accordance with SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies, procedures and standards.

Documents shall be prepared in accordance with SDLC, SELC, and all OSC policies, plans, processes, procedures, standards, and templates, and shall include:

End user manuals/guides, quick reference guides, system administration guides, transaction guides and troubleshooting guides

Hardware and operating system installation notes and procedures 

System flow charts

Functional specifications

Topology diagrams

Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) 

OFD scripts.  

Data Storage Management 

The Contractor shall provide data storage services for all systems developed, hosted and maintained by OSC based on project requirements, to include capabilities for receiving, storing, processing, distributing, tracking, converting, recalling and protecting engineering data, as well as the data storage hardware and software, and user access capabilities. 

The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and implement procedures to provide for the organization and availability of the data.  The Contractor shall ensure that computer system disk space and file sizes are used efficiently, and make adjustments as necessary to effectively manage these resources for optimum performance and protection.  The Contractor shall manage data storage devices, such as disks or tapes, and associated storage libraries, and shall create backup files for storage and maintenance according to SDLC, SELC, and OSC policies and procedures.

Technology Integration

The Contractor shall perform technology assessments, system upgrade analyses, concept prototyping, product evaluations, and human/computer interface evaluations.

Network Administration

The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and update network hardware, software, and configuration files.  The components incorporated in network administration shall include the following:

TCP/IP software

Cross-system interconnections to other systems

Communication boards and connections.

Additional components may be required and  may be identified by the Government and/or proposed by the Contractor for Government review and approval.

Network Analysis

The Contractor shall provide network traffic analysis, capacity planning and network performance analysis, and shall manage and extend (as necessary) the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) based monitoring and event triggering of alarms of the existing network monitoring system.

Network Maintenance

The Contractor shall provide routing, local area network (LAN) support and maintenance, wide area network (WAN) interface and Point of Presence (PoP) support, and other network support required to transport data to and from the OSC.  This includes supporting appropriate protocols, firewalls, filters, encryption, Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) and other network-centric techniques to meet the security and interface requirements with external users/facilities.  

Data Entry/Validation & Operational Watchstanding

The Contractor shall provide data entry and validation, and operational watchstanding services to support data center operations, the Automated Mutual Assistance Vessel Rescue (Amver) watch and the National Vessel Movement Center (NVMC), as well as any other data entry/validation and operational watchstanding services as specified by the Government.  Details regarding specific services required to support these operational watches are provided in Attachment 6 to the IDIQ PWS.

Contractor Performance Objectives and Metrics

The Contractor shall develop performance metrics and objectives to establish how their business plan will be executed to achieve maximum results and make continuous improvements to meet the challenges and changing demands of DHS and USCG missions.  Performance objectives will be specific, measureable, accountable, realistic, time based and strategically linked to the overall business plan and over-arching strategy of the OSC.

The Contractor shall develop performance metrics to be approved by the Government within 30 days of the initial task order award.  Performance metrics shall be delivered monthly with the MPR.  Performance measurement is an important cornerstone for the operations of the OSC.  Performance metrics will measure the Contractor’s activities and performance which support the requirements outlined in this Task Order.  Performance metrics should be constructed to encourage performance improvement, effectiveness, efficiency, and appropriate levels of internal controls.  They should incorporate industry "best practices" related to the performance being measured and cost/risk/benefit analysis, where appropriate. 

 At a minimum, the performance objectives and metrics will include:

Project and Program Management Objectives and Metrics

Enterprise Services Development Objectives and Metrics

Enterprise Services Operations and Maintenance Criteria and Metrics

Process Improvement Plan

The Contractor shall develop and maintain a Process Improvement Plan (PIP) to define the process improvement activities to support this Task Order.  The PIP shall establish process improvement goals, assign responsibility for process improvement projects and tasking, detail plans for achieving process improvement goals, allocate resources to accomplish the planned actions, and actively monitor and facilitate successful performance against those plans.  The Contractor PIP shall be delivered within thirty (30) calendar days after task order issuance.  The Contractor PIP is a “living document” and will be updated annually and delivered to the Government.

Contract Phase-Out

Contract Phase-Out shall be performed in accordance with requirements of the IDIQ Contract.

 Applicable Documents

Applicable documents for this Performance Work Statement can be found in Attachment 1 to the CTS IDIQ PWS.

Task Order Deliverables

Task Order deliverables for this Performance Work Statement can be found in Appendix 1.




APPENDIX 1: SAMPLE TASK ORDER Deliverables



The attached document identifies the task order deliverables.







United States Coast Guard







Document Name

Document Delivery Requirements

Sample Task Order PWS Section Reference(s)

Phase-In Project Plan

Draft at Post Award Conference

Final 3 business days following receipt of Government comments

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

4.2.2  Task Order Phase-In Requirements 

Listing of Phase-In Personnel

Deliver three (3) working days prior to commencement of Phase-In. 

4.2.2  Task Order Phase-In Requirements

Transition Management Plan

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order 

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

4.2.2  Task Order Phase-In Requirements 

4.2.3  CTS Transition Management Plan

Quality Control Plan

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

4.4.1 Quality Control Plan

Human Resources Management Plan

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

4.2.2  Task Order Phase-In Requirements 

4.5.1  Human Resources Management Plan

Staffing Matrix

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meetings

4.5.2  Staffing Matrix and Labor Category Descriptions

Key Personnel Organizational Chart

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting for each Task Order

3.4  Task Order Kick-Off Meeting

4.5.3  Key Personnel Organizational Chart

List of personnel requiring access to the OSC

Deliver NLT five (5) working days following the commencement of the Phase-In Period.

4.2.2 Task Order Phase-In Requirements

Property Inventory

Deliver at Kick-Off Meeting as part of Transition Project Management Plan

4.2.3 CTS Transition Program Management Plan

SF-85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions) and FD-258 (Fingerprint Cards) 

Deliver within seven (7) calendar days of task order award for all Contractor personnel employed at task order start.

Deliver for new Contractor personnel as hired to support Contract.

4.2.2 Task Order Phase-In Requirements

Program Management Plan

Deliver within ten (10) working days of commencement of the task order transition period.

4.1.1 CTS Program Management Plan

Training Report

Monthly

4.5.6  Contractor Training

Monthly Progress Reports 

Monthly

4.6.2  Monthly Progress Reports

Risk Management Plan

Monthly

4.7.1  Risk Management Plan

Procurement Management Plan

Deliver updated plan within 30 calendar days of task order issuance

4.8.1  Procurement Management Plan

Cost Reports & Invoices

Monthly

4.8.3  Cost Reports & Invoices

Process Improvement Plan

Delivery within 30 calendar days of task order issuance with annual updates

7.1 Process Improvement Plan

Contract Phase-Out Plan

90 days prior to commencement of the Phase-Out period

8 Contract Phase-Out



CTS Task Order #1

CTS Task Order #1

CTS Task Order #1

CTS Task Order #1

Phase-In Period

Base Period

Option Period 1

Option Period 2

01 – 30 Nov 2010

01 – 31 Dec 2010

01 Jan - 31 Dec 2011

01Jan - 31 Dec 2012SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 7900)
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION SEALED BID (IFB) NEGOTIATED (RFP)

RATING 5. DATE ISSUED

PAGE

1

OF

1

PAGES

3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

HSCGG3-10-R-PWV888
7. ISSUED BY CODE

06/09/2010

2110G30PWV888

G3

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

United States Coast Guard, Operations Systems Center 408 Coast Guard Drive, Kearneysville, WV 25430

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".
SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and hand carried, in the depository located in copies for furnishings the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in item 8, or if until

3:00 p.m.
(Hour)

local time

08/05/2010
(Date)

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) A. NAME C. E-MAIL ADDRESS 10. FOR AREA CODE NUMBER EXT. INFORMATION

CALL:
SEC. A B C D E F G H

Kathy P. Klein

304

264

2566

Kathy.P.Klein@uscg.mil
PAGE(S)

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS (X) DESCRIPTION PART I - THE SCHEDULE SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS K L M J I PAGE(S) (X) SEC. CONTRACT CLAUSES PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. LIST OF ATTACHMENTS PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD DESCRIPTION PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT
(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO.

CALENDAR DAYS(%) DATE

14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR 15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE NUMBER EXT. CODE

FACILITY

16. NAME AND THE TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c) 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c)

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

Kathy P. Klein, Contracting Officer (Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV,. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - Far (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)



                                                SECTION B:  SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

     General Information


This is a competitive 8(a) solicitation for a single source Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract in accordance with FAR
Subpart 16.5, utilizing best value source selection procedures described in FAR Subpart 15.1.  This solicitation is limited to interested and
capable 8(a) certified small business sources or 8(a) joint ventures, including those with an approved SBA Mentor-Protégé Agreement.  Contract
teaming is encouraged as prescribed under the SBA rules for Joint Ventures, Prime Contractor/Sub-Contractor arrangements, and the SBA’s Mentor-
Protégé Program Procedures.

In accordance with issued Task Orders the Contractor shall provide all management, labor, supervision, equipment, and supplies necessary to
perform information technology support services on an IDIQ basis.  Task Orders issued will  support the full range of software engineering
services required to design, develop, implement, operate, maintain, and enhance hardware, network and infrastructure components supporting
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and United States Coast Guard (USCG) enterprise software applications, in accordance with Section C, Core
Technologies Services (CTS) Performance Work Statement (PWS).

Task Orders will be issued in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section G (Contract Administration Data).

      Place of Performance

The primary place of performance will be at the United States Coast Guard (USCG), Operations Systems Center (OSC), Kearneysville, WV, 25430.
Contractor performance may take place at other than the OSC with written approval from the Contracting Officer.


      Task Order Information


B.3.1 Task Order Types


Task Orders awarded under this contract may be of various types: Firm Fixed Price (FFP), Cost Plus Performance Incentive Fee (CPPIF), Cost Plus
Incentive Fee (CPIF), and Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF).

B.3.2 Task Order Pricing


Task Order prices will be negotiated and funded at the time of Task Order award.  Labor hours and other reimbursable elements, including travel,
supplies, equipment, maintenance and licensing agreements, and materials, will be proposed as appropriate and negotiated for each Task Order.



      Provisions Applicable To Direct Costs


Notwithstanding FAR 52.216-7 “ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT” (APR 1988), incorporated in this contract, unless authorized in writing by the
Contracting Officer, the cost of the following items or activities shall be unallowable as direct costs:

    1) Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property;

    2) Purchase or lease of any personal computer, related  personal item of hardware, or software, regardless of dollar value;

    3) Any cost incurred prior to the contract’s effective date;

    4) Rental of meeting space not otherwise expressly authorized by the contract;

    5) Any formal subcontract arrangements above $100,000 and any cost-reimbursement subcontract regardless of the cost, or not otherwise
       expressly provided for in the contract;

    6) Acquisition of hardware, software, hardware/software maintenance and licensing agreements, and supplies and services over $3,000.

      Quantities and Conditions of Work

Quantity of work is not guaranteed at any amount over the stated minimum.  The contractor is obligated to satisfy the requirements for service
which are ordered as requirements arise through the base IDIQ contract, options, individual Task Orders, and Modifications hereto.

The minimum and maximum values of this IDIQ contract are $10,000 and $145.7 million, respectively.

      CTS Sample Task Order


The hardware, network and infrastructure engineering services currently being performed at the OSC under the Systems Engineering and Technical
Services (SETS II) Task Order #HSCGG3-05-F-TWV436, is representative of the type of tasking to be performed under the IDIQ contract.
Accordingly, this solicitation includes a CTS Sample Task Order encompassing all hardware, network and infrastructure engineering work currently
being performed at OSC.  The CTS Sample Task Order is included in Section J, Attachment 1.

It is anticipated that the initial CTS Task Order for the “follow-on” hardware, network and infrastructure engineering work at OSC will be
issued immediately after award of the IDIQ contract and is anticipated to be effective on 1 November 2010.  The initial Task Order will be CPFF
type.

Offerors must demonstrate their technical capabilities, and past performance based on the requirements in the Sample Task Order.  Additionally,
Offerors must base their cost proposal for the IDIQ contract on the tasking detailed in the Sample Task Order for the Phase-In, Base and all
Option Periods as stipulated in the Cost Template in Section L, Attachment 4.

The IDIQ evaluated price will be based on the pricing set forth in the Cost Template in Section L, Attachment 4.

      Summary Pricing Tables


The Summary Pricing Tables (Section B, Attachment 1) will provide a roll-up of the detailed costs proposed in the Cost Template (Section L,
Attachment 4).  The Summary Pricing Tables must be completed and submitted with the Offeror’s proposal response.  For each Summary Pricing Table
(Phase-In, Base, and all Option Periods), the estimated labor cost and fixed fee for the respective period of performance must be stated.  ODC
costs in the Summary Pricing Tables should reflect the Government’s estimated ODCs with all applicable indirect rates applied.

      Labor


The following labor category descriptions are recommended as necessary to perform the IDIQ contract task orders.  The Contractor will be
required to provide a Staffing Matrix detailing proposed labor categories that are commensurate with the recommended labor categories provided
by the Government.  Any and all variations from the labor category titles must clearly indicated by the Contractor.  The Staffing Matrix must
provide a mapping of Contractor proposed labor categories to the labor categories described in Section C, Attachment 7.  The Staffing Matrix
must include the qualifications associated with each labor category.  The Staffing Matrix shall be included in the Contractor’s proposal
response.

|Labor Category Description                                |Level            |
|Applications Engineer                                     |I                |
|Applications Engineer                                     |II               |
|Applications Engineer                                     |III              |
|Applications Engineer                                     |IV               |
|Applications Engineer                                     |V                |
|Business Analyst/Architect                                |I                |
|Business Analyst/Architect                                |II               |
|Business Analyst/Architect                                |III              |
|Business Analyst/Architect                                |IV               |
|Communications Network Specialist                         |I                |
|Communications Network Specialist                         |II               |
|Communications Network Specialist                         |III              |
|Communications Network Specialist                         |IV               |
|Configuration Management Specialist                       |I                |
|Configuration Management Specialist                       |II               |
|Configuration Management Specialist                       |III              |
|Configuration Management Specialist                       |IV               |
|Database Management Specialist                            |I                |
|Database Management Specialist                            |II               |
|Database Management Specialist                            |III              |
|Database Management Specialist                            |IV               |
|Database Management Specialist                            |V                |
|Technical Writer/Editor                                   |I                |
|Technical Writer/Editor                                   |II               |
|Technical Writer/Editor                                   |III              |
|Technical Writer/Editor                                   |IV               |
|Project Control Specialist                                |I                |
|Project Control Specialist                                |II               |
|Project Control Specialist                                |III              |
|Project Control Specialist                                |IV               |
|Project Control Specialist                                |V                |
|Systems Administrator (SA)                                |I                |
|Systems Administrator (SA)                                |II               |
|Systems Administrator (SA)                                |III              |
|Systems Administrator (SA)                                |IV               |
|Systems Administrator (SA)                                |V                |
|Operational Watch Supervisor                              |I                |
|Operational Watch Supervisor                              |II               |
|Operational Watch Supervisor                              |III              |
|System Operator                                           |I                |
|System Operator                                           |II               |
|System Operator                                           |III              |
|System Operator                                           |IV               |
|Systems Analyst                                           |I                |
|Systems Analyst                                           |II               |
|Systems Analyst                                           |III              |
|Systems Analyst                                           |IV               |
|Systems Analyst                                           |V                |
|Functional Analyst                                        |I                |
|Functional Analyst                                        |II               |
|Functional Analyst                                        |III              |
|Functional Analyst                                        |IV               |
|Test Engineer                                             |I                |
|Test Engineer                                             |II               |
|Test Engineer                                             |III              |
|Test Engineer                                             |IV               |
|Program Manager                                           |I*               |
|Program Manager*                                          |II*              |
|Program Manager*                                          |III*             |
|Program Manager*                                          |IV*              |
|Procurement Specialist                                    |I                |
|Procurement Specialist                                    |II               |
|Procurement Specialist                                    |III              |
|Procurement Specialist                                    |IV               |


Other labor categories may be added if applicable and necessary to perform the scope of work under a specific Task Order as approved by the
Contracting Officer.  All Task Orders must reflect current labor rates.

The Contractor must propose labor rates for all categories.  Those labor categories marked with (*) are “Key Personnel.”

                                                             Section B - Attachment 1

                                                              Summary Pricing Tables

                                                                      [pic]


                                                       SECTION  D:  PACKAGING AND MARKINGS




D.1   Marking of Shipments

The Contractor shall mark all shipments for task orders issued with the contract number, task order number, any other identifying number if
applicable, and recipients’ name.  This same data shall also be included on the following:

   a.  Shipping documentation;

   b. Invoices; and

   c. Correspondence pertaining to a particular delivery

NOTE:  Failure to properly mark all packages, boxes, etc., as indicated above, may result in return of the shipment at the contractor’s expense.

D.2   Preservation, Packaging and Packing

The supplies to be furnished under this contract shall be packaged and marked in accordance with the Contractor’s standard commercial practices.
 Packaging and packing shall be adequate to ensure acceptance by common carrier and arrival at destination in undamaged condition.  All initial
packing, marking and storage incidental to shipping of equipment to be provided under this contract shall be at the Contractor’s expense.


                                                      SECTION E – INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

E.1   Inspection and Acceptance

E.1.1 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated By Reference (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:
http://www.arnet.gov/far

52.246-2    Inspection of Supplies—Fixed Price                AUG 1996
52.246-3    Inspection of Supplies—Cost Reimbursement    MAR 2001
52.246-4    Inspection of Services—Fixed Price                AUG 1996
52.246-5    Inspection of Services Cost Reimbursement         APR 1984
52.246-16   Responsibility for Supplies                  APR 1984

The appropriate and applicable FAR and/or HSAR clauses will be included in all Task Orders issued under this IDIQ contract.





                                                      SECTION F â DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

F.1   Period of Performance

This is an indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract for a phase-in period of one month, base period of one month, four one year
option periods, and a final ten month option period, for a total of 60 months, as follows:

Phase-In Period:       1 November 2010 through 30 November 2010

Base Period:                 1 December 2010 through 31 December 2010

Option Period 1:       1 January 2011 through 31 December 2011

Option Period 2:       1 January 2012 through 31 December 2012

Option Period 3:       1 January 2013 through 31 December 2013

Option Period 4:       1 January 2014 through 31 December 2014

Option Period 5:       1 January 2015 through 31 October 2015

Each option may be exercised by issuance of a unilateral modification.  This contract includes services which will be ordered as the
requirements arise, subject to the availability of funds.

F.2   Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FAR 52.252-2) (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates the following clauses by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text can be accessed electronically at this address:
http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html.

FAR Clause No.   Title and Date
52.242-15        Stop-Work Order (AUG 1989)

52.242-17        Government Delay of Work (APR 1984)

52.247-34        F.O.B. Destination (NOV 1991)

F.3   Reporting Requirements/Deliverables

Each individual Task Order will have specific requirements and any applicable delivery schedules.  Satisfactory performance of all Task Orders
shall be deemed to occur upon acceptance by the Contracting Officer, or the duly authorized representative.


F.4   Other Contracts

The Government may award other contracts related to the services of this IDIQ contract.  The contractor shall cooperate fully with all such
other contractors, Government employees, and officials involved, and as necessary must carefully adapt the scheduling and performance of task
orders issued under this contract to accommodate all other work.  The contractor shall not commit or permit any acts that will interfere with
the performance of work by any other contractor or by Government personnel.


                                                     SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA


   Contract Administrative Authority

      Contracting Officer (KO)
      Kathy P. Klein
      Phone: 304-264-2566
      FAX:  304-264-3817
      E-mail: Kathy.p.klein@uscg.mil

      Contract Specialist
      Sherrie D. Walters
      Phone: 304-264-5128
      FAX: 304-264-3817


   Appointment and Authority of Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative
         (COTR)

a.    The Contracting Officer shall appoint, in writing, a COTR, for all task orders issued.  The Contractor shall be provided a copy of the
appointment letter identifying the tasks for which the COTR is responsible.  The COTR may not re-delegate his/her authority.

b.    The COTR will act as the liaison to coordinate activities between the Contractor and the Contracting Officer, as required, in the
performance of the work under this contract.  The COTR has authority to provide technical clarification of the contract requirements but does
not have authority to modify any contract provisions, including, without limitation, changing the scope of the work, the cost/price thereof, or
the performance delivery schedule(s).  Technical clarification will be issued in writing by the COTR or confirmed by the COTR in writing within
five calendar days after verbal issuance.

c.    Only the Contracting Officer has the authority to change the terms and conditions of this contract or task orders issued.  In the event
the Contractor effects changes to the contract at the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the changes will be considered
to have been made without any authority and no adjustments will be made to the contract.

d.    If the Contractor deems technical direction to modify or conflict with any contract provision, the Contractor shall refer the matter to
the Contracting Officer.



   Address of Correspondence

All correspondence except as otherwise specified shall be directed to the Contracting Officer at the following address:

U. S. Coast Operations Systems Center

408 Coast Guard Drive

Kearneysville, WV  25430-3002

Contract No. ________________________

Task Order No. ________________________


   Ordering Procedures

a.    Each Task Order shall:

1.    Incorporate any additional terms and conditions applicable to the task order.

2.    Set forth a detailed statement of work and description of the requirements to be provided.

3.    Set forth any additional terms and conditions relative to the services to be performed.

4.    Set forth the obligated Task Order amount, and applicable appropriation, accounting, and financial data.

5.    Include the Contracting Officer’s signature.

b.    Under no circumstances shall an order or a modification to an order be issued if the delivery requirements extend beyond 1 year after the
expiration of the initial contract or any option year.

c.    Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering Clause.  The Contractor shall
furnish to the Government, the services or supplies specified in the schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the schedule as the
“maximum.”

d.    There is no limit on the number of Task Orders that may be issued provided the maximum ceiling of the IDIQ Contract is not exceeded.


   Payment Information

The Coast Guard requires the Contractor to submit certain information to the United States Coast Guard Finance Center in order to facilitate
Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) payment for deliveries or performance under this Task Order.  Accordingly, prior to submitting the first invoice
for payment, the Contractor shall complete the EFT/ACH Vendor Payment Enrollment Form provided in Section J, Attachment 2 of this Task Order.
The form shall be provided directly to the United States Coast Guard Finance Center (“payment office”) at the address below:

Commanding Officer

USCG Finance Center

1430A Kristina Way

Chesapeake, VA 23326

Failure to submit the EFT/ACH Vendor Payment Enrollment Form to the above USCG Finance Center address as soon as possible after award may result
in nonpayment of invoices.


   Request for Payment

A request for payment, whether referred to as an invoice or voucher, is proper if it complies with FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment [(a) (3) (i)
through (a) (3) (viii)] and the information provided in this section.

a.    If a request for payment does not include all the items required by FAR 52.232-25, entitled “Prompt Payment,” then the request is not
proper and shall be returned with a statement of the reason(s) it is not proper.

b.    If a request for payment includes all the items required by FAR 52.232-25, entitled “Prompt Payment”, but is inaccurate, then the request
is not proper, and the Contractor shall be notified, in writing, of the error(s).  The Government reserves the right to return an inaccurate
request for payment with a statement of the reason(s) it is not proper.

The Contractor shall submit SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, and Summary Cost Reports (as described in
G.8 below) to request payments under this contract.  The Summary Cost Reports are required in lieu of SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and
Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet).  The SF 1034 and Summary Cost Reports must be completed as required by this clause.

The SF 1034, Summary Cost Reports, and Cost Price Reports shall be submitted monthly and incorporate a single period of performance (a calendar
month) for the prime Contractor as well as any subcontractors.  The Summary Cost Report by GFY shall be submitted monthly and incorporate
Government Fiscal Year-to-Date (FYTD) period of performance.

All cost data invoiced in forms SF 1034 and the Summary Cost Reports shall be in complete agreement with the details provided in the Detailed
Cost Report and Project Cost Code Report.  Additionally, the amount on the submitted SF 1034 must be equal to the grand total of the Summary
Cost Report for the invoice to be considered accurate and proper.

The SF 1034 shall be completed in accordance with the instructions provided in the Section G, Attachments.


   Project Cost Code Report

The Government may require the Contractor to segregate maintenance and development activities that allow for the tracking of costs associated
with discrete quantities of work.  It may be necessary to separately track all incurred costs allocable to a specific body of work.
Additionally, the Government may require the Contractor to segregate maintenance and development costs associated with discrete quantities of
work.  It may be necessary to separately track all incurred costs allocable to a specific body of work. These costs shall be tracked in the
Project Cost Code Report.

As directed by the Government, the Contractor shall report performance against the plan, labor utilization and costs, and all variations from
plan with associated explanations, for each open Project Code in the Monthly Progress Brief.   The Contractor shall provide reports coinciding
with the monthly invoices and cost reports.


   Monthly Cost Invoices and Cost Reports

The Contractor shall produce three categories of cost reports to be delivered monthly in hard copy format: 1) Summary Cost Reports, 2) Sub-CLIN
Cost Reports, and 3) System Cost Reports.  In addition, the Contractor shall provide a Detailed Cost Report as an electronic spreadsheet report
only.  The specific data elements to be included in each report are outlined in G.8 to follow.  The following instructions shall apply to all
three reports, where applicable.

The Contractor shall provide two copies and an electronic copy of Invoices and Cost Reports to the Contracting Officer at the address listed in
Section G.3.   Invoices and Cost Reports should be delivered no later than the 15th calendar day of every month for the proceeding performance
month.

The reports shall cover the exact same performance period as the Contractor’s Contract invoice submitted in accordance with the requirements
described.

Each report shall include both prime Contractor and subcontractor labor and cost data for the same period of performance.

Subcontractor labor shall be reported as labor and not as ODCs for the Prime Contractor.

Prime Contractor and subcontractor ODCs shall not be differentiated as to which contractor incurred the cost.

All costs shall be reported as fully burdened

Two copies of each of these reports shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer.

All material, labor, and other direct costs will be calculated to a total estimated direct cost.  The Contractor shall then apply appropriate
overhead rates, general and administrative costs, and fees to produce a total estimated cost.

Failure to provide the required information shall be cause for rejection of the invoice for the same reporting period.


   Cost Reports - Other than Fixed Price Task Orders:

For all Task Orders issued, the following cost reports shall be delivered monthly:

      Summary Cost Report by Option Period
      Summary Cost Report by Government Fiscal Year (GFY)
      Sub-CLIN Cost Report by Option Period
      Sub-CLIN Cost Report by GFY
      System Cost Report by Option Period
      System Cost Report by GFY
      Sub-CLIN Total Personnel Staffing Report by Option Period
      System Total Personnel Staffing Report by Option Period
      Sub-CLIN Cumulative Cost Report by Option Period
      System Cumulative Cost Report by Option Period
      Electronic cost file detailing all cost data for the current reporting and cumulative costs for GFY
The data elements that must be included in each Cost Report are listed below.  The Contractor shall propose their Cost Report format to be
approved by the Government.  Cost Reports are to be provided for each SF 1034 as a hard copy report for the voucher period and shall be prepared
in accordance with the following instructions.

The Summary Cost Reports by Option Period and Summary Cost Reports by GFY shall include both the prime Contractor’s and all subcontractors’
labor costs and other cost data for the same period of performance.  The period of performance for all Summary Cost Reports shall be a calendar
month.  The Summary Cost Reports shall be cumulative by Option Period.  The Summary Cost Reports by GFY shall be cumulative by Government Fiscal
Year.  The Contracting Officer shall approve any changes in the format for the Summary Cost Reports in advance.

All subcontractor labor shall be reported under the labor category heading and shall not be reported as Other Direct Costs (ODCs) for the prime
Contractor.

The prime Contractor and any subcontractors shall report labor rates for each labor category as a composite burdened labor rate.

Prime Contractor and subcontractor ODCs shall not be differentiated as to which contractor incurred the cost but shall be reported as a single
item cost under the Task Order.

Labor costs and ODCs shall be reported for every Sub-CLIN and System as identified in the Performance Work Statement.

The Summary Cost Report by Option Period and Summary Cost Report by GFY provide a roll up of the cumulative costs for all Task Order Sub-CLINs
for both the current reporting period (current month) as well as the Option Period and GFY.  The Summary Cost Report by Option Period and
Summary Cost Report by GFY shall include the following data elements:

|Summary Cost Report By Option Period                                  |Summary Cost Report by GFY                                            |
|Report Name                                                           |Report Name                                                           |
|Contract Number                                                       |Contract Number                                                       |
|Task Order Number                                                     |Task Order Number                                                     |
|Vendor Name                                                           |Vendor Name                                                           |
|CLIN                                                                  |CLIN                                                                  |
|Invoice Period                                                        |Invoice Period                                                        |
|Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |
|Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |
|Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |
|For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |
|Labor category name and level                                         |Labor category name and level                                         |
|Burdened hourly rate                                                  |Burdened hourly rate                                                  |
|Current month hours                                                   |Current month hours                                                   |
|Current month dollars                                                 |Current month dollars                                                 |
|Cumulative Option Period hours                                        |Cumulative GFY hours                                                  |
|Cumulative Option Period dollars                                      |Cumulative GFY dollars                                                |
|ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |
|Software licenses                                                     |Software licenses                                                     |
|Software maintenance                                                  |Software maintenance                                                  |
|Consulting services                                                   |Consulting services                                                   |
|Travel                                                                |Travel                                                                |
|Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |
|Indirect Costs                                                        |Indirect Costs Miscellaneous                                          |
|Total current month cost                                              |Total current month cost                                              |
|Total cumulative Option Period cost                                   |Total cumulative GFY cost                                             |
|Current month fixed fee                                               |Current month fixed fee                                               |
|Cumulative Option Period fixed fee                                    |Cumulative GFY fixed fee                                              |
|Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |
|Cumulative Option Period cost plus Fixed Fee                          |Cumulative GFY cost plus Fixed Fee                                    |


The Sub-CLIN Cost Report by Option Period and the Sub-CLIN Cost Report by GFY provide the costs for each Sub-CLIN for both the current reporting
period (current month) as well as the Option Period and GFY.  The Sub-CLIN Cost Report by Option Period and the Sub-CLIN Cost Report by GFY
shall include the following data elements:

|Sub-CLIN Cost Report By Option Period                                 |Sub-CLIN Cost Report by GFY                                           |
|Report Name                                                           |Report Name                                                           |
|Contract Number                                                       |Contract Number                                                       |
|Task Order Number                                                     |Task Order Number                                                     |
|Vendor Name                                                           |Vendor Name                                                           |
|CLIN                                                                  |CLIN                                                                  |
|Invoice Period                                                        |Invoice Period                                                        |
|Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |
|Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |
|Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |
|For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |
|Labor category name and level                                         |Labor category name and level                                         |
|Burdened hourly rate                                                  |Burdened hourly rate                                                  |
|Current month hours                                                   |Current month hours                                                   |
|Current month dollars                                                 |Current month dollars                                                 |
|Cumulative Option Period hours                                        |Cumulative GFY hours                                                  |
|Cumulative Option Period dollars                                      |Cumulative GFY dollars                                                |
|ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |
|Software licenses                                                     |Software licenses                                                     |
|Software maintenance                                                  |Software maintenance                                                  |
|Consulting services                                                   |Consulting services                                                   |
|Travel                                                                |Travel                                                                |
|Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |
|Indirect Costs                                                        |Indirect Costs                                                        |
|Total current month cost                                              |Total current month cost                                              |
|Total cumulative Option Period cost                                   |Total cumulative GFY cost                                             |
|Current month fixed fee                                               |Current month fixed fee                                               |
|Cumulative Option Period fixed fee                                    |Cumulative GFY fixed fee                                              |
|Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |
|Cumulative Option Period cost plus Fixed Fee                          |Cumulative GFY cost plus Fixed Fee                                    |


The System Cost Report by Option Period and the System Cost Report by GFY provide the costs for each System for both the current reporting
period (current month) as well as the Option Period and GFY.  The System Cost Report by Option Period and the System Cost Report by GFY shall
include the following data elements:

|System Cost Report By Option Period                                   |System Cost Report by GFY                                             |
|Report Name                                                           |Report Name                                                           |
|Contract Number                                                       |Contract Number                                                       |
|Task Order Number                                                     |Task Order Number                                                     |
|Vendor Name                                                           |Vendor Name                                                           |
|CLIN                                                                  |CLIN                                                                  |
|Invoice Period                                                        |Invoice Period                                                        |
|Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |Estimated Task Order Cost                                             |
|Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |Estimated Fixed Fee                                                   |
|Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |Estimated Total Cost Plus Fixed Fee                                   |
|For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |
|Labor category name and level                                         |Labor category name and level                                         |
|Burdened hourly rate                                                  |Burdened hourly rate                                                  |
|Current month hours                                                   |Current month hours                                                   |
|Current month dollars                                                 |Current month dollars                                                 |
|Cumulative Option Period hours                                        |Cumulative GFY hours                                                  |
|Cumulative Option Period dollars                                      |Cumulative GFY dollars                                                |
|ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |
|Software licenses                                                     |Software licenses                                                     |
|Software maintenance                                                  |Software maintenance                                                  |
|Consulting services                                                   |Consulting services                                                   |
|Travel                                                                |Travel                                                                |
|Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |
|Indirect Costs                                                        |Indirect Costs                                                        |
|Total current month cost                                              |Total current month cost                                              |
|Total cumulative Option Period cost                                   |Total cumulative GFY cost                                             |
|Current month fixed fee                                               |Current month fixed fee                                               |
|Cumulative Option Period fixed fee                                    |Cumulative GFY fixed fee                                              |
|Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |Total current month cost plus Fixed Fee                               |
|Cumulative Option Period cost plus Fixed Fee                          |Cumulative GFY cost plus Fixed Fee                                    |


The Sub-CLIN Total Personnel Staffing Report and System Total Personnel Staffing Report provide details on all Contractor employees charging
labor hours to a particular Sub-CLIN or System.  The Sub-CLIN Total Personnel Staffing Report and System Total Personnel Staffing Report shall
include the following data elements:

|Sub-CLIN Total Personnel Staffing Report                              |System Total Personnel Staffing Report                                |
|Report Name                                                           |Report Name                                                           |
|Contract Number                                                       |Contract Number                                                       |
|Task Order Number                                                     |Task Order Number                                                     |
|Vendor Name                                                           |Vendor Name                                                           |
|CLIN                                                                  |CLIN                                                                  |
|Invoice Period                                                        |Invoice Period                                                        |
|For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |
|Labor category name and level                                         |Labor category name and level                                         |
|Employee name                                                         |Employee name                                                         |
|Current month hours for each employee                                 |Current month hours for each employee                                 |
|Cumulative Option Period hours for each employee                      |Cumulative Option Period hours for each employee                      |
|Current month hours for each labor category level                     |Current month hours for each labor category level                     |
|Cumulative Option Period hours for each labor category level          |Cumulative Option Period hours for each labor category level          |
|Total current month hours                                             |Total current month hours                                             |
|Total cumulative Option Period hours                                  |Total cumulative Option Period hours                                  |


The Sub-CLIN Cumulative Cost Report and System Cumulative Cost Report provide a roll up of all costs for each Sub-CLIN and System, respectively,
as well as a breakdown of total cost by maintenance and enhancement charges.  The Sub-CLIN Cumulative Cost Report and System Cumulative Cost
Report shall include the following data elements:

|Sub-CLIN Cumulative Cost Report                                  |System Cumulative Cost Report                                    |
|Report Name                                                      |Report Name                                                      |
|Contract Number                                                  |Contract Number                                                  |
|Task Order Number                                                |Task Order Number                                                |
|Vendor Name                                                      |Vendor Name                                                      |
|CLIN                                                             |CLIN                                                             |
|Invoice Period                                                   |Invoice Period                                                   |
|Contract Period                                                  |Contract Period                                                  |
|For each Sub-CLIN supporting the task order:                     |For each System supporting the task order:                       |
|Estimated ceiling (including Fixed Fee)                          |Estimated ceiling (including Fixed Fee)                          |
|Total cost to date (including Fixed Fee)                         |Total cost to date (including Fixed Fee)                         |
|% expended                                                       |% expended                                                       |
|Maintenance costs to date                                        |Maintenance costs to date                                        |
|Enhancement costs to date                                        |Enhancement costs to date                                        |
|Total CLIN cost for:                                             |Total Sub-CLIN cost for:                                         |
|Estimated ceiling (including Fixed Fee)                          |Estimated ceiling (including Fixed Fee)                          |
|Total cost to date (including Fixed Fee)                         |Total cost to date (including Fixed Fee)                         |
|% expended                                                       |% expended                                                       |
|Maintenance costs to date                                        |Maintenance costs to date                                        |
|Enhancement costs to date                                        |Enhancement costs to date                                        |


The Electronic cost file shall be delivered in .xls format and shall include the following data elements (note: sample data is provided for
exemplary purposes only):

|Electronic Cost File                                                                               |
|Field Name:                                                                                        |
|Sample Data:                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                   |
|Option Period                                                                                      |
|OP1                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                   |
|Labor Category                                                                                     |
|Applications Engineer I                                                                            |
|                                                                                                   |
|Labor Category group                                                                               |
|Applications Engineer                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|Sub-CLIN/Service                                                                                   |
|0002AF                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                   |
|Sub-CLIN Name                                                                                      |
|Operations Systems                                                                                 |
|                                                                                                   |
|System Name                                                                                        |
|MISLE                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|Project Code                                                                                       |
|AF-M001                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                   |
|Project Code Description                                                                           |
|MISLE Modernization                                                                                |
|                                                                                                   |
|Project Type                                                                                       |
|M (maintenance) or E (enhancement)                                                                 |
|                                                                                                   |
|Employee Name                                                                                      |
|Milton Waddams                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                   |
|Burdened Rate                                                                                      |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|FYTD Hours                                                                                         |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|FYTD Cost                                                                                          |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|Current Month Hours                                                                                |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|Current Month Costs                                                                                |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|OCT Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|OCT Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|NOV Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|NOV Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|DEC Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|DEC Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|JAN Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|JAN Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|FEB Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|FEB Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|MAR Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|MAR Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|APR Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|APR Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|MAY Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|MAY Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|JUN Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|JUN Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|JUL Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|JUL Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|AUG Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|AUG Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |
|SEP Hours                                                                                          |
|0.00                                                                                               |
|                                                                                                   |
|SEP Cost                                                                                           |
|$0.00                                                                                              |
|                                                                                                   |


   Cost Report - Fixed Price Task Orders

For all Task Orders issued, cost reports must include:

      Fixed Price Cost Report by Option Period
      Fixed Price Cost Report by Government Fiscal Year (GFY)


Fixed Price Cost Report and Fixed Price Cost Report by GFY shall include the data elements listed below.  The Fixed Price Cost Reports are to
include costs for all fixed price Sub-CLINs.

|Fixed Price Cost Report By Option Period                              |Fixed Price Cost Report by GFY                                        |
|Report Name                                                           |Report Name                                                           |
|Contract Number                                                       |Contract Number                                                       |
|Task Order Number                                                     |Task Order Number                                                     |
|Vendor Name                                                           |Vendor Name                                                           |
|CLIN                                                                  |CLIN                                                                  |
|Invoice Period                                                        |Invoice Period                                                        |
|For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |For each labor category supporting the task order:                    |
|Labor category name and level                                         |Labor category name and level                                         |
|Current month dollars                                                 |Current month dollars                                                 |
|Cumulative Option Period dollars                                      |Cumulative Option Period dollars                                      |
|Fixed price                                                           |Fixed price                                                           |
|ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |ODCs detailed by the following categories:                            |
|Software licenses                                                     |Software licenses                                                     |
|Software maintenance                                                  |Software maintenance                                                  |
|Consulting services                                                   |Consulting services                                                   |
|Travel                                                                |Travel                                                                |
|Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |Miscellaneous ODCs                                                    |
|Indirect Costs                                                        |Indirect Costs                                                        |
|Total current month cost                                              |Total current month cost                                              |
|Total cumulative Option Period cost                                   |Total cumulative Option Period cost                                   |
|Total fixed price                                                     |Total fixed price                                                     |


Completion Voucher:  The completion (final) voucher also referred to as the final invoice, is the last voucher to be submitted for incurred,
allocable, and allowable costs expended to perform the contract or Task Order.  This voucher should include all contract or Task Order reserves,
allowable cost withholdings, balance of fixed fee, etc.  However, the amount of the completion voucher when added to the total amount previously
paid cannot exceed the total amount of the contract.

The following additional data must be submitted with the final request for payment, if applicable:


DHS Form 700-1, Cumulative Claim and Reconciliation Statement.


DHS Form 700-2, Contractor’s Assignment of Refunds, Rebates, Credits, and Other Amounts.


DHS Form 700-3, Contractor’s Release.


DD Form 882, Report of Inventions and Subcontracts.

The original with one copy of the Cost Reports and Invoices plus an electronic copy shall be submitted to the COTR at the address cited in the
COTR appointment letter or in any subsequent letter from the Contracting Officer that cites a different address.  Any ambiguity concerning the
COTR address shall be referred to the OSC Contracting Officer for resolution.

Failure to provide the required information shall be cause for rejection of the invoice.

Note:  Cost reports and cost-tracking reports may be subject to change based on OMB 300 Earned Value Management System (EVMS) requirements.
This standard is based on the policy in OMB Circular A-11, Part 7, requiring agencies to use earned value management (EVM) to plan and manage
major IT development efforts to achieve, on average, 90 percent of approved cost, schedule, and performance goals.


   Request For Payment - Fixed-Price Contracts and Delivery Orders For Non-Commercial Items

A request for payment is proper if it includes the items required by FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment [(a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(ix)] and those
items are accurate.  A request for payment may be on a form, such as a DD Form 250, or company letterhead as long as it meets the requirements
of this clause.

If a request for payment does not include all the items required by FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, then the request is not proper and shall be
returned with a statement of the reason(s) it is not proper.

If a request for payment includes all the items required by FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment but is inaccurate, then the request is not proper and
the contractor shall be notified in writing of the error(s); the Government reserves the right to return an inaccurate request for payment with
a statement of the reason(s) it is not proper.

Each original invoice and two copies shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer at the address listed in Section G.3.


ATTACHMENTS

These attachments include the Standard Form (SF) 1034 and the instructions for completion of the SF 1034.



   [pic]  [pic]



                                                     section H – special contract conditions


1 Section 8(A) Competitive Business Development (BD) Program – Small Business Administration (SBA)/Department Of Homeland Security (DHS)
   Partnership Agreement


   a. This contract is issued as an 8(a) Business Administration (BA) Program Competitive award between the contracting office and the 8(a)
      Contractor pursuant to the partnership Agreement with an effective date of October 1, 2009 between the SBA and DHS.  The SBA, even if not
      identified in Section A of this contract, is the Prime Contractor and retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, for 8(a) eligibility
      determinations and related issues, and for providing counseling and assistance to the 8(a) Contractor under the 8(a) BD Program.  The
      cognizant SBA district office is:


                                                        U.S. Small Business Administration
                                                          West Virginia District Office
                                                         320 West Pike Street, Suite 330
                                                              Clarksburg, WV  26301
                                                        SBA Requirement No. 0390/10/000005


   b. The contracting office is responsible for administering the contract and for taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms
      and conditions of the contract; provided that the contracting office shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice
      terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract.  The contracting office may assign contract administration
      functions to a contract administration office.


   c. The Contractor agrees:


      1.    To notify the Contracting Officer, simultaneous with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA’s 8(a) regulations), when the owner
        or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern.  Consistent with 15 U.S.C.
        637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the
        requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquish of ownership and control.


      2.    It will not subcontract the performance of any of the requirements of this contract without the prior written approval of the SBA and
        the Contracting Officer.


   d. Even though the SBA may not be identified in Section A of the contract, it is still the Prime Contractor on the contract in accordance with
      the Partnership Agreement between the U.S. SBA and DHS with an effective date of October 1, 2009.


2 Security Considerations


H.2.1.      All contractor personnel working on task orders issued under this IDIQ contract must possess or be able to obtain a Department of
Defense (DoD) Secret facility clearance (FCL), issued in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), DoD
5220.22-M.  All contractor personnel must also possess a Secret personnel security clearance issued by the Defense Industrial Security Clearance
Office (DISCO).  Offerors already possessing the necessary FCL should submit their appropriate Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code with
their proposal response.  The work performed under this contract requires employees to possess a SECRET level clearance; and some of the
employees a TOP SECRET level clearance.  The DoD Contract Security Classification Specification, DD Form 254 detailing the required security
classification guidance will be included in the contract award document for all task orders.  A Draft DD Form 254 is included in Section J,
Attachment 4.


H.2.2.      This acquisition does involve access to classified information. No sensitive, operation, or critical infrastructure information will
be disclosed in this acquisition.


H.2.3.      US citizenship is required for all contractor employees working on any task orders issued under the IDIQ contract.


H.2.4.      In the performance of task order work, contractor employees may have access to, view, process, or otherwise come into contact with
information that is sensitive.  This may include certain classified, procurement sensitive, For Official use Only (FOUO), Privacy Act, or other
sensitive information. All contractor employees will be required to complete the DHS Non-Disclosure Agreement (DHS Form 11000-6) and Classified
Information Non-Disclosure Agreement (SF 312) during orientation by OSC’s Command Security Officer (CSO) at the commencement of all task orders
issued under this contract.  The SF 312 is included in Section J, Attachment 6.  DHS Form 11000-6 is included in Section J, Attachment 7.


H.2.5.      All services must be compliant with DHS Management Directive (MD 4300), DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook.


3 Security Clearance Screening and Access


Contractor employees working on any Task Order must complete all applicable forms, including all forms related to the completion of background
investigations to determine suitability.  Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Command Security Officer (CSO).  At the CSO’s
request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted or subject to other investigations as required.  At a minimum, all Contractor
personnel must possess a valid Secret clearance.  All Contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to
sensitive information or IT resources are required to have a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this
contract unless this requirement is waived under Departmental procedures.


The Contractor shall furnish appropriate documentation (Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) certification will suffice) to the OSC CSO.
Specifically, all Contractor and Subcontractor employees working under any Task Order who have been granted a security clearance by the Office
of Personnel Management (OPM) or formerly granted by DISCO must furnish this documentation prior to the employee commencing work.  The
Contractor shall inform the CSO when application materials are submitted for security investigations. The Contractor shall track and monitor
progress of investigations; reporting all changes in status to the CSO, including active follow-up on all submissions.


Security screenings that reveal the following (but not limited to) may cause rejection of access to Government resources: conviction for a
felony, a crime of violence or a serious misdemeanor, and/or a record of arrests for continuing offenses.


The intent and purpose of security screening and investigation are to preclude the assignment of any individual who poses a threat to the
Government or to successful contract completion due to past unlawful or inappropriate behavior.  The Contractor shall ensure that each
prospective contract or subcontract employee furnishes all required data in the form and format determined by the Contracting Officer or the
duly authorized representative.


The Contractor shall notify the CSO of any change in employee security requirements and access permissions (due to termination, resignation,
reassignment/transfer to another OSC system or alternate Contractor work site, change in working status, etc.) within ten working days of the
change.  For Contractor employees working at OSC who have been approved for a TS or TS/SCI clearance, the Contractor shall notify the CSO within
one working day of any change in employee security requirements and access permissions (due to termination, resignation, reassignment/transfer
to another OSC system or alternate Contractor work site, change in working status, etc.).


If a Contractor employee comes under suitability investigation, (see COMDTINST M5520.12 (series) Personnel Security Program) the Contractor
shall abide by the USCG Personnel Security Officer decision.  This may include the removal of the employee from work performed under this
Contract and/or remove access to classified and unclassified sensitive information pending the results of an investigation.


   a. The Government has the authority to grant, deny, withhold or terminate suitability determinations for Contractor employees.  The Government
      may, as it deems appropriate, conduct background checks or grant temporary suitability determinations to Contractor employees.  However,
      the granting of a temporary suitability determination to any Contractor employee shall not be considered as assurance that full favorable
      determination will follow as a result or condition thereof; and the granting of either temporary or final favorable determination shall in
      no way prevent, preclude or bar the withdrawal or termination of any such determination by the Government.


   b. The Government for a period of up to six months may grant temporary suitability determination allowances from the date that such allowance
      is approved.  All Contractor employees working under this Contract, after the expiration of the six month temporary determination and
      unless renewed one time for an additional six months, shall not work under this Contract until a full suitability determination has been
      completed.


4 Sensitive Information


To comply with the requirements HSAR Clause 3052.204-71, and Department policy contractor employees (to include applicants, temporaries, part-
time and replacement employees) under the Contract, requiring access to sensitive information shall undergo a position sensitivity analysis
based on the duties each individual will perform on the contract.  The results of the position sensitivity analysis shall identify the
appropriate background investigation to be conducted.  All background investigations will be processed through the DHS Security Office.


The Government has designated that all contractor employees working on any task order issued will require a National Agency Check and Inquiries
(NACI), as defined by the Department of Homeland Security.  National Agency Checks and Credit Inquiries, until otherwise determined, are based
upon Contractor supplied Position Descriptions (PDs).


The Contractor shall submit to the CSO, Forms SF-85P (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions) and FD-258 (Finger Print Card) for all proposed
employees within seven days after Contract award.  The Standard Form 85P will be completed electronically, through the Office of Personnel
Management’s e-QIP SYSTEM.


The Contracting Officer will use this information to determine whether or not a temporary suitability determination will be granted to allow
interim access to Government resources for a particular proposed employee until a final suitability determination can be made.  Documented proof
of security clearances granted by OPM can be provided in lieu of these forms, is preferred by the Government, and assures an appropriate
suitability determination.


The Contracting Officer and CSO will designate the level of screening for a given position based on an evaluation of risk, benefit/cost, and
feasibility.  The guidelines for reviewing and assigning criticality levels are stipulated in Commandant Instruction (COMDTINST) M5520.12
(series) and COMDTINST M5500.13 (series) Chapter 6.  In order to facilitate the proper assigning of security criticality levels for each
Contractor employee, the Government requires position descriptions (PDs) for all labor categories proposed.  The PDs shall be based on the
contract labor categories proposed, and be tailored to the Contractor’s personnel and management structures.  The PDs shall be submitted with
the proposal response in accordance with Section L.


In addition to providing the SF-85P and FD-258 to the CSO, the Contractor shall ensure that the following completed forms are submitted to the
DHS Security Office for each contractor employees under this Contract.  Forms are to be delivered to the DHS Security Office no less than five
days before the start date of the contract or five days prior to entry on duty of any employees, whether a replacement, addition, subcontractor
employee, or vendor:


   a. Standard Form 85P, “Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions”


   b. FD Form 258, “Fingerprint Card”  (2 copies)


   c. DHS Form 11000-6 “Conditional Access To Sensitive But Unclassified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement”


   d. DHS Form 11000-9, “Disclosure and Authorization Pertaining to Consumer Reports Pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act”


Only complete packages will be accepted by the DHS Security Office.  Specific instructions on submission of packages will be provided upon
award of the contract.


Be advised that unless an applicant requiring access to sensitive information has resided in the United States for three of the past five
years, the Government may not be able to complete a satisfactory background investigation.


Non-U.S. citizens shall not be authorized to access or assist in the development, operation, management or maintenance of Department IT systems
under the contract, unless a waiver has been granted by the Head of the Component or designee, with the concurrence of both the Department’s
Chief Security Officer (CSO) and the Chief Information Officer (CIO) or their designees. Within DHS Headquarters, the waiver may be granted only
with the approval of both the CSO and the CIO or their designees. In order for a waiver to be granted:


   a. The individual must be a legal permanent resident of the U. S. or a citizen of Ireland, Israel, the Republic of the Philippines, or any
      nation on the Allied Nations List maintained by the Department of State;


   b. There must be a compelling reason for using this individual as opposed to a U. S. citizen; and


   c. The waiver must be in the best interest of the Government.


5 Access to Government Resources


By requesting access, the Contractor is certifying that all Contractor personnel involved in the management, use, and operation of systems under
this Contract have received training appropriate to their assignment as defined in NIST Special Publication 500-172 Computer Security Training
Guidelines.


H.5.a Unclassified Systems Access


Contractor access to Unclassified but Security Sensitive Information, information protected under the Privacy Act, and other proprietary
information may be required under Task Orders issued.  Contractor employees shall safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or
dissemination in accordance with the law and Government policy and regulation (e.g. DHS Management Directive (MD) 11042.1, Safeguarding
Sensitive but Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information).  The Contractor shall adhere to all relevant USCG, and DHS security (i.e.
software, network, and physical) policies and procedures.  Services shall be performed in accordance with Management Directive 140.01,
Information Technology System Security Policy and Management Directive 4300 A for Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) systems.


H.5.b Classified Systems Access


Contractor access to certain classified information (up to the level of Top Secret/SCI) will be required under all Task Orders.  The details are
provided in the Department of Defense Form 254 (DD 254 – Section J, Attachment 4) and Department of Homeland Security MD 11042.1 Safeguarding
Sensitive But Unclassified Information (Section J, Attachment 5).


6 Contractor Employee Access (HSAR 3052.204-71) (Jun 2006)

   a. “Sensitive Information,” as used in this Chapter, means any information, the loss, misuse, disclosure, or unauthorized access to or
      modification of which could adversely affect the national or homeland security interest, or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy
      to which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically
      authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense,
      homeland security or foreign policy.  This definition includes the following categories of information:
      1.    Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (Title II,
        Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act, Pub. L. 107–296, 196 Stat. 2135), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto (Title 6,
        Code of Federal Regulations, part 29) as amended, the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and any supplementary guidance
        officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the PCII Program Manager or his/her
        designee);
      2.    Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as defined in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, part 1520, as amended, “Policies and
        Procedures of Safeguarding and Control of SSI,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized
        official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or
        his/her designee);
      3.    Information designated as “For Official Use Only,” which is unclassified information of a sensitive nature and the unauthorized
        disclosure of which could adversely impact a person's privacy or welfare, the conduct of Federal programs, or other programs or
        operations essential to the national or homeland security interest; and
      4.    Any information that is designated “sensitive” or subject to other controls, safeguards or protections in accordance with
        subsequently adopted homeland security information handling procedures.
   b. “Information Technology Resources” include, but are not limited to, computer equipment, networking equipment, telecommunications equipment,
      cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites, and internet sites.
   c. Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the
      conduct of background investigations to determine suitability.  Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer.
      Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required.
      All contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to sensitive information or IT resources are
      required to have a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this contract unless this requirement is
      waived under Departmental procedures.
   d. The Contracting Officer may require the contractor to prohibit individuals from working on the contract if the government deems their
      initial or continued employment contrary to the public interest for any reason, including, but not limited to, carelessness,
      insubordination, incompetence, or security concerns.
   e. Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information.  Therefore, the Contractor shall not disclose, orally or in writing,
      any sensitive information to any person unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.  For those contractor employees authorized
      access to sensitive information, the contractor shall ensure that these persons receive training concerning the protection and disclosure
      of sensitive information both during and after contract performance.
   f. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to
      Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources.
      Alternate I (JUN 2006)
      When the contract will require contractor employees to have access to Information Technology (IT) resources, add the following paragraphs:
   g. Before receiving access to IT resources under this contract the individual must receive a security briefing, which the Contracting
      Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will arrange, and complete any nondisclosure agreement furnished by DHS.
   h. The contractor shall have access only to those areas of DHS information technology resources explicitly stated in this contract or approved
      by the COTR in writing as necessary for performance of the work under this contract.  Any attempts by contractor personnel to gain access
      to any information technology resources not expressly authorized by the statement of work, other terms and conditions in this contract, or
      as approved in writing by the COTR, is strictly prohibited. In the event of violation of this provision, DHS will take appropriate actions
      with regard to the contract and the individual(s) involved.
   i. Contractor access to DHS networks from a remote location is a temporary privilege for mutual convenience while the contractor performs
      business for the DHS OE.  It is not a right, a guarantee of access, a condition of the contract, or Government Furnished Equipment (GFE).
   j. Contractor access will be terminated for unauthorized use.  The contractor agrees to hold and save DHS harmless from any unauthorized use
      and agrees not to request additional time or money under the contract for any delays resulting from unauthorized use or access.
   k. Non-U.S. citizens shall not be authorized to access or assist in the development, operation, management or maintenance of Department IT
      systems under the contract, unless a waiver has been granted by the Head of the Organizational Element or designee, with the concurrence of
      both the Department's Chief Security Officer (CSO) and the Chief Information Officer (CIO) or their designees.  Within DHS Headquarters,
      the waiver may be granted only with the approval of both the CSO and the CIO or their designees. In order for a waiver to be granted:
      1.    The individual must be a legal permanent resident of the U.S. or a citizen of Ireland, Israel, the Republic of the Philippines, or
        any nation on the Allied Nations List maintained by the Department of State;
      2.    There must be a compelling reason for using this individual as opposed to a U.S. citizen; and
      3.    The waiver must be in the best interest of the Government.

   l. Contractors shall identify in their proposals the names and citizenship of all non-U.S. citizens proposed to work under the contract.  Any
      additions or deletions of non-U.S. citizens after contract award shall also be reported to the contracting officer.


7 Revocation of Access to Government Resources


The Contractor shall maintain a list of personnel with completed clearances and security screenings.  Access to Government resources shall be
revoked if an individual becomes a threat to the Government resources.  The Government may remove access privileges, including revocation or
suspension of facility access from Contractor personnel for unauthorized, negligent or illegal actions.


If a Contractor’s employment status is terminated under favorable conditions, it is the Contractor’s responsibility to complete the OSC
electronic employee life cycle ticket.  If a Contractor employee is fired or leaves the Contract or company under adverse conditions, the
Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, CSO, and ISSO.


    H.7.1   Terminations


The DHS Security Office shall be notified of all terminations/resignations within five days of occurrence.  The Contractor shall return to the
Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) all DHS issued identification cards and building passes that have either expired or have
been collected from terminated employees.  If an identification card or building pass is not available to be returned, a report shall be
submitted to the COTR, referencing the pass or card number, name of individual to who it was issued and the last known location and disposition
of the pass or card.


8 Control of Government Issued Badges, Identification Cards, Passes and Vehicle Registration Media


Contractors are required to have a Background, Wants & Warrants check prior to obtaining an OSC access badge.  System access to USCG OSC systems
will be handled through USCG OSC systems security personnel.  If required, access to systems supported at other Government facilities will be
handled by the systems security personnel at that unit.  For example, system access to USCG FINCEN systems will be handled through USCG FINCEN
systems security personnel.


The Government will issue required badges, identification cards, passes and vehicle registration media to Contractor employees requiring access
to the Government facility and/or access to classified material, and found suitable through personnel screenings.  These items are Government
property.  The Contractor is responsible for accountability, protection and return of any of these items that are issued to Contractor employees
or subcontractor (any tier) employees.  In case of loss, the Contractor is responsible for immediately reporting, in writing, the loss to the
Contracting Officer and the CSO.


At the termination or completion of the Contract, the Contractor shall ensure that all Government issued badges, identification cards, passes
and vehicle registration media issued to its employees and subcontractor employees are turned in to the CSO.


Prior to submitting the invoice for final payment, the Contractor shall submit a certification to the Contracting Officer and the CSO that
states that all such items noted above have been turned in or accounted for all employees and subcontractor employees.  The approved
certification shall be attached to the Contractor's final invoice at the time of submittal for payment.


Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment until compliance is effected.


9 Privacy Act Notification


The personal information maintained in any system of records provided to, designed, developed or operated by the Contractor under the terms of
this Contract is to be accorded the full protection of the Privacy Act of 1974.  Access to information must be limited to authorized USCG
personnel or employees of the Contractor working directly on this Contract who have a valid need to know.


Equipment and management controls must be adequate to prevent unauthorized access or disclosure which might result from concurrent utilization
of computer resources by multiple, independent users.


No dissemination or use of these records obtained by the Contractor from the USCG shall be permitted except in accordance with the terms of this
Contract and the modifications thereto.  Furthermore, any records, data, reports, information, or other documentation generated for the USCG,
subject to the Privacy Act, are property of the USCG and such material, as well as those records originally provided pursuant to this Contract,
shall be returned to the USCG upon completion of the terms of the Contract.


It is the Contractor's responsibility under the terms of the Privacy Act for the purposes of this Contract to familiarize and brief the
Contractor's employees involved with this Contract on the conditions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (See Privacy Act Clauses referenced in Section
I).


10 Personnel Requiring Access to Government Facilities


The Contractor shall provide an initial list of Contractor personnel who require access to the Government installation during the course of the
Contract to the Contracting Officer at the post-award conference.  If Contractor personnel change during the term of the Contract, the
Contractor shall provide a revised list to the Contracting Officer five days prior to Contractor personnel requiring access to the installation.



Qualified Personnel.  Each employee of the Contractor shall be a citizen of the United States of America and have qualified for no less than an
Interim Secret Clearance.


Employee Identification.  Contractor employees working at the Operations Systems Center (OSC) facilities shall wear an identification badge
that, at a minimum, displays the Contractor name, the employee's photo, name, clearance-level and badge expiration date.  Visiting Contractor
employees shall comply with all Government escort rules and requirements.  All Contractor employees shall identify themselves as Contractors
when their status if not readily apparent and display all identification and visitor badges in plain view above the waist at all times.


Employee Conduct.  Contractor employees shall present a professional appearance at all times and their conduct shall not reflect discredit upon
the United States, the Department of Homeland Security, or the United States Coast Guard.


Conflict of Interest.  The Contractor shall not employ any person who is an employee of the United States Government if that employment would,
or would appear to cause a conflict of interest.


Security.  Contractor access to information protected under the Privacy Act is required under this Contract.  Contractor employees shall
safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or dissemination in accordance with the law and Government policy and regulation.


11 Non-Supervision of Contractor Employees on Government Facilities


The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over Contractor employees performing services under any task order issued under
this IDIQ contract.    The Contractor’s employees shall be accountable solely to the Contractor’s management, who in turn is responsible to the
Government.  The Government will provide a workspace, including a phone, computer, fax machine, copier, Internet access, and other reasonable
equipment/supplies anticipated in a Government work environment.


12 Executive Order on Text Messaging While Driving


Text Messaging While Driving by Federal Employees: Federal employees shall not engage in text messaging when driving GOV, or when driving POV
while on official Government business, or (b) when using electronic equipment supplied by the Government while driving.


Text Messaging While Driving by Government Contractors, Subcontractors, and Recipients and Sub-recipients:  Each Federal agency, in procurement
contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, and other grants to the extent authorized by applicable statutory authority, entered into after
the date of this order, shall encourage contractors, subcontractors, and recipients and sub-recipients to adopt and enforce policies that  ban
text messaging while driving company-owned or –rented vehicles or GOV, or while driving POV when on official Government business or when
performing any work for or on  behalf of the Government.  Agencies should also encourage Federal contractors, subcontractors, and grant
recipients and sub-recipients as described in this section to conduct initiatives of the type described in section 3(a) of the Executive Order.


Definitions:  The term "agency" as used in this order means an executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, except for the Government
accountability Office.  "Texting" or "Text Messaging" means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device,
including for the purpose of SMS texting, e-mailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of
electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. "Driving" means operating a motor vehicle on an active roadway with the motor
running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light or stop sign, or otherwise. It does not include operating a
motor vehicle with or without the motor running when one has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has halted in a location
where one can safely remain stationary.


13 Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (HSAR 3052.242-72) (DEC 2003)


   a. The Contracting Officer may designate Government personnel to act as the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) to perform
      functions under the contract such as review or inspection and acceptance of supplies, services, including construction, and other functions
      of a technical nature.  The Contracting Officer will provide a written notice of such designation to the Contractor within five working
      days after contract award or for construction, not less than five working days prior to giving the Contractor the notice to proceed.  The
      designation letter will set forth the authorities and limitations of the COTR under the contract.


   b. The Contracting Officer cannot authorize the COTR or any other representative to sign documents, such as contracts, contract modifications,
      etc. that require the signature of the Contracting Officer.


14 Key Personnel or Facilities (HSAR 3052.215-70) (DEC 2003)


   a. The personnel or facilities specified below are considered essential to the work being performed under this contract and may, with the
      consent of the contracting parties, be changed from time to time during the course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel or
      facilities, as appropriate.


   b. Before removing or replacing any of the specified individuals or facilities, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in
      writing, before the change becomes effective.  The Contractor shall submit sufficient information to support the proposed action and to
      enable the Contracting Officer to evaluate the potential impact of the change on this contract.  The Contractor shall not remove ore
      replace personnel or facilities until the Contracting Officer approves the change.


The key personnel under this contract are:


                                            First Name Last Name (to be inserted in task order award)


15 Flow Down To Subcontracts


The specific clauses required to “flow down” to any and all Subcontracts awarded by the Contractor will be included in the individual Task
Orders issued under the IDIQ contract.


16 DHS CIO Compliance Clauses


H.16.1        DHS CIO OAST Section 508 Compliance


All tasks for testing of functional and/or technical requirements must include specific testing for Section 508 compliance, and must use DHS
Office of Accessible Systems and Technology approved testing methods and tools.  For information about approved testing methods and tools send
an email to accessibility@dhs.gov.


H.16.1.1  Section 508 Compliance


Section 508 requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, they must ensure that
it is accessible to people with disabilities, unless it would pose an undue burden to do so.  Federal employees and members of the public who
have disabilities must have access to and use of information and services that is comparable to the access and use available to non-disabled
Federal employees and members of the public.  For additional information, please refer to FAR 39.2 or http://www.section508.gov.


Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220), 7 August 1998,
requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, they shall ensure that it is
accessible to people with disabilities, unless it would pose an undue burden to do so.  Federal employees and members of the public who have
disabilities shall have access to and use of information and services that is comparable to the access and use available to non-disabled Federal
employees and members of the public.  For additional information, please refer to FAR 39.2 or http://www.section508.gov.


All electronic information technology (EIT) deliverables within this work statement shall comply with the applicable technical and functional
performance criteria of Section 508 unless exempt.  Specifically, the following applicable standards have been identified:


36 CFR 1194.21 - Software Applications and Operating Systems, applies to all EIT software applications and operating systems procured or
developed under this work statement including but not limited to GOTS and COTS software.  In addition, this standard is to be applied to Web-
based applications when needed to fulfill the functional performance criteria.  This standard also applies to some Web based applications as
described within 36 CFR 1194.22.


36 CFR 1194.22 - Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, applies to all Web-based deliverables, including documentation
and reports procured or developed under this work statement.  When any Web application uses a dynamic (non-static) interface, embeds custom user
control(s), embeds video or multimedia, uses proprietary or technical approaches such as, but not limited to, Flash or Asynchronous Javascript
and XML (AJAX) then "1194.21 Software" standards also apply to fulfill functional performance criteria.


36 CFR 1194.23 - Telecommunications Products, applies to all telecommunications products including end-user interfaces such as telephones and
non end-user interfaces such as switches, circuits, etc. that are procured, developed or used by the Federal Government.


36 CFR 1194.24 - Video and Multimedia Products, applies to all video and multimedia products that are procured or developed under this work
statement.  Any video or multimedia presentation shall also comply with the software standards (1194.21) when the presentation is through the
use of a Web or Software application interface having user controls available.


36 CFR 1194.31 - Functional Performance Criteria applies to all EIT deliverables regardless of delivery method.  All EIT deliverable shall use
technical standards, regardless of technology, to fulfill the functional performance criteria.


36 CFR 1194.41 - Information Documentation and Support, applies to all documents, reports, as well as help and support services.  To ensure that
documents and reports fulfill the required "1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria", they shall comply with the technical standard associated
with Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications at a minimum.  In addition, any help or support provided in this work
statement that offer telephone support, such as, but not limited to, a help desk shall have the ability to transmit and receive messages using
TTY.


Exceptions for this work statement have been determined by DHS and only the exceptions described herein may be applied.  Any request for
additional exceptions shall be sent to the COTR and determination will be made in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2.  DHS has identified the
following exceptions that may apply:


36 CFR 1194.2(b) - (COTS/GOTS products) - When procuring a product, each agency shall procure products which comply with the provisions in this
part when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are developed in response to a Government
solicitation.  Agencies cannot claim a product as a whole is not commercially available because no product in the marketplace meets all the
standards.  If products are commercially available that meets some but not all of the standards, the agency must procure the product that best
meets the standards.  Note: When applying this standard, all procurements of EIT shall have documentation of market research that identify a
list of products or services that first meet the agency business needs, and from that list of products or services, an analysis that the
selected product met more of the accessibility requirements than the non-selected products as required by FAR 39.2.  Any selection of a product
or service that meets less accessibility standards due to a significant difficulty or expense shall only be permitted under an undue burden
claim and requires approval from the DHS Office on Accessible Systems and Technology (OAST) in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2.


36 CFR 1194.3(b) - Incidental to Contract, all EIT that is exclusively owned and used by the Contractor to fulfill this work statement does not
require compliance with Section 508.  This exception does not apply to any EIT deliverable, service or item that will be used by any Federal
employee(s) or member(s) of the public.  This exception only applies to those Contractors assigned to fulfill the obligations of this work
statement and for the purposes of this requirement, are not considered members of the public.


All tasks for testing of functional and/or technical requirements must include specific testing for Section 508 compliance, and must use DHS
Office of Accessible Systems and Technology approved testing methods and tools.  For information about approved testing methods and tools send
an email to accessibility@dhs.gov.


H.16.2        DHS CIO ISO Compliance


Security Certification/Accreditation (C&A):  USCG shall provide personnel with the appropriate clearance levels to support the security
certification/accreditation processes under this Agreement in accordance with DHS MD 4300A, DHS Sensitive Systems Policy and Handbook.  During
all SDLC phases of USCG systems, USCG personnel shall develop documentation and provide any required information for all levels of
classification in support of the certification / accreditation process.  In addition, all security certification / accreditation will be
performed using the DHS certification/accreditation process, methodology and tools.


DHS Sensitive Systems Policy Directive 4300 A, Section 4.1.4 states "Separation of duties is intended to prevent a single individual from being
able to disrupt or corrupt a critical security process." The Policy requires the following: "Components shall divide and separate duties and
responsibilities of critical IT system functions among different individuals to minimize the possibility that any one individual would have the
necessary authority or system access to be able to engage in fraudulent or criminal activity."  Security testing is but one critical systems
function that needs to be performed by a provider (either government or contractor) other than the system designer/developer/operator.


17 Coast Guard Information Technology Security Requirements


No Contractor personnel shall commence any performance under this Contract, requiring system access, until they:


   a. Have received a security briefing about the Automated Information Systems (AIS) Security Manual (COMDTINST M5500.13 (series)) from the
      appropriate Coast Guard Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO).


   b. Have signed an “Annual Coast Guard Information Technology Contractor User Security Agreement.”  A copy of this user security agreement is
      provided as Attachment 2 in Section J of this Contract.  By signing the aforementioned user security agreement, the individual will be
      acknowledging their responsibility to properly use and safeguard all Coast Guard information technology resources and information related
      thereto.  The COTR for this Contract shall arrange the aforementioned security briefing.


The Contractor shall access only those areas of Coast Guard information technology resources (e.g., computer equipment, networking equipment,
telecommunications equipment, cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites,
internet sites. etc.) explicitly stated in this Contract and/or as approved by the COTR in writing as necessary for performance of the work
under this Contract.  Any attempts by Contractor personnel to gain access to any information technology resources not explicitly authorized by
the Performance Work Statement, other terms and conditions in this Contract, or approved in writing by the COTR is strictly prohibited.  In the
event of violation of this provision, the Coast Guard will take appropriate action with regard to the Contract.


Contractor access to Coast Guard computer systems and/or networks from a remote location is a temporary privilege for the mutual convenience it
offers while the Contractor performs business for the Coast Guard.  It is not a right, a guarantee, a condition of the Contract, nor is it
Government Furnished Equipment (GFE).


Contractor access may be terminated for unauthorized use.  The Contractor agrees to hold the Coast Guard harmless and the Contractor will not
request additional time or money under the Contract for any delays resulting from unauthorized use.


All hardware, software, and services provided must be compliant in accordance with 140-01 Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS
Sensitive Systems Handbooks 4300A or 4300B.


FIPS 140-2 and FIPS 197 Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256 encryption compliance: All hardware and software interfaces shall meet FIPS 140-2
and FIPS 197 Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256 encryption compliance.


18 Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Resources (HSAR 3052.204-70) (JUN 2006)


   a. The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology (IT) security for all systems connected to a DHS network or operated by the
      Contractor for DHS, regardless of location.  This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology
      resources or services for which the Contractor must have physical or electronic access to sensitive information contained in DHS
      unclassified systems that directly support the agency's mission.


   b. The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan.  This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will
      be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract.


     1. Within 60 days after contract award, the contractor shall submit for approval its IT Security Plan, which shall be consistent with and
        further detail the approach contained in the Offeror's proposal.  The plan, as approved by the Contracting Officer, shall be
        incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.

     2. The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Computer Security Act of 1987
        (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.); the Government Information Security Reform Act of 2000; and the Federal Information Security Management Act of
        2002; and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A–130.

     3. The security plan shall specifically include instructions regarding handling and protecting sensitive information at the Contractor's
        site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor's computer systems), and the secure management,
        operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems.

   c. Examples of tasks that require security provisions include—


     1. Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DHS with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted;
        and

     2. Access to DHS networks or computers at a level beyond that granted the general public (e.g., such as bypassing a firewall).

   d. At the expiration of the contract, the contractor shall return all sensitive DHS information and IT resources provided to the contractor
      during the contract, and certify that all non-public DHS information has been purged from any contractor-owned system. Organizational
      elements shall conduct reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced.


   e. Within six months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to DHS for approval by the
      DHS Contracting Officer. Accreditation will proceed according to the criteria of the DHS Sensitive System Policy Publication, 4300A
      (Version 2.1, 26 July 2004) or any replacement publication, which the Contracting Officer will provide upon request.  This accreditation
      will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations
      plan.  This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.  The
      contractor shall comply with the approved accreditation documentation.


19 Access to Unclassified Facilities, Information Technology Resources, and Sensitive Information


The assurance of the security of unclassified facilities, Information Technology (IT) resources, and sensitive information during the
acquisition process and contract performance are essential to the DHS mission. DHS Management Directive (MD) 11042.1 Safeguarding Sensitive But
Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information, describes how contractors must handle sensitive but unclassified information.  DHS MD 140-01
Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook prescribe policies and procedures on security for IT resources.
Contractors shall comply with these policies and procedures, any replacement publications, or any other current or future DHS policies and
procedures covering contractors specifically for all Contract that require access to DHS facilities, IT resources or sensitive information.
Contractors shall not use or redistribute any DHS information processed, stored, or transmitted by the contractor except as specified in the
Contract.


20 Security Review


The Government may elect to conduct periodic reviews to ensure that the security requirements contained in this contract are being implemented
and enforced.  The Contractor shall afford DHS including the organization of the DHS Office of the Chief Information Officer, the Office of the
Inspector General, authorized Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), and other government oversight organizations, access to the
Contractor’s facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases, and personnel used in the performance of this contract.  The
Contractor will contact the DHS Chief Information Security Officer to coordinate and participate in the review and inspection activity of
government oversight organizations external to the DHS.  Access shall be provided to the extent necessary for the government to carry out a
program of inspection, investigation, and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of
DHS data or the function of computer systems operated on behalf of DHS, and to preserve evidence of computer crime.


21 Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) Requirements


Interconnections between DHS and non-DHS IT systems shall be established only through controlled interfaces and via approved service providers.
The controlled interfaces shall be accredited at the highest security level of information on the network.  Connections with other Federal
agencies shall be documented based on interagency agreements; memoranda of understanding, service level agreements or interconnect service
agreements.


22 DHS Enterprise Architecture Compliance Requirements


Existing systems supported under the SETS II task order are considered as being aligned to the DHS Enterprise Architecture via the “Amnesty Day”
list of products and standards in use at USCG prior to 31 December 2007.  Any new systems that use products not contained in the DHS Technical
Reference Manual (TRM) must obtain a “technical insertion” granted by DHS.


All solutions and services shall meet DHS Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures. Specifically, the contractor shall comply
with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) requirements and United States Coast Guard EA requirements:


   •  All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with Coast Guard and Homeland Security EA.


   •  All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile, and with the
      USCG IT products and standards inventory.


   •  All data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data
      Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model.


   •  In compliance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates, all network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification,
      upgrade, or replacement.


   •  All Information Technology assets being developed, procured, or acquired shall be IPv6 capable.


23 DHS Geospatial Information System Compliance Requirements


The following requirements are for incorporation into acquisition documents only when geospatial equipment or data is involved with the
acquisition:


All implementations shall comply with the policies and requirements set forth in the DHS Geospatial Information Infrastructure (GII), including
the following:


    • All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA.


    • All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile.


    • The DHS geospatial data model shall be used building to the GII.


    • All data within the GII, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review
      and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model.


24 Security Certification/Accreditation


USCG shall provide personnel with the appropriate clearance levels to support the security certification/accreditation processes under this
Agreement in accordance with DHS MD 4300A, DHS Sensitive Systems Policy and Handbook.  During all SDLC phases of USCG systems, USCG personnel
shall develop documentation and provide any required information for all levels of classification in support of the certification/accreditation
process.  In addition, all security certification/accreditation will be performed using the DHS certification/accreditation process, methodology
and tools.


25 CG 912 Organizational Conflicts of Interest for Contract Awarded by the U.S. Coast Guard Office of Contract Operations


   a. The Contractor warrants that to the best of its knowledge and belief, and except as otherwise disclosed, he or she does not have any
      organizational conflict of interest, which is defined as a situation in which the nature of work under a government contract and a
      Contractor’s organizational, financial, contractual or other interests are such that:


            1.    Award of the contract may result in an unfair competitive advantage; or


            2.    The Contractor’s objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired.


   b. The Contractor agrees that if after award he or she discovers an actual or apparent organizational conflict of interest with respect to
      this contract, he or she will make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer which shall include a description
      of the action which the Contractor has taken or intends to make to eliminate or neutralize the conflict.  The Government may, however,
      terminate the contract for the convenience of the Government if it would be in the best interest of the Government.


   c. In the event the Contractor was aware of an organization conflict of interest before the award of this contract and intentionally did not
      disclose the conflict to the Contracting Officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default.


   d. The provisions of this clause shall be included in all subcontracts and consulting agreement wherein the work to be performed is similar to
      the service provided to the Government by the prime Contractor.  The Contractor shall include in such subcontracts and consulting
      agreements any necessary provisions to eliminate or neutralize organizational conflicts of interest.


26 HSAR 3004.470-2 Policy


        a) DHS’s policies and procedures on contractor personnel security requirements are set forth in various management directives (MDs). MD
           4300.1, entitled Information Technology Systems Security, and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook, prescribe the policies and
           procedures on security for Information Technology resources. MD 11042.1, Safeguarding Sensitive But Unclassified (For Official Use
           only) Information describes how contractors must handle sensitive but unclassified information. Compliance with these policies and
           procedures, any replacement publications, or any other current or future DHS policies and procedures, covering contractors
           specifically, is required in all contracts that require access to facilities, IT resources or sensitive information.


        b) (b) The contractor must not use or redistribute any DHS information processed, stored, or transmitted by the contractor except as
           specified in the contract.


27 CGAP Subpart 3004.1301 - Common Access Cards (CAC) for Contractors:  Contractor Verification System (CVS)


   a. “Contractor employee” means an employee of a firm, or an individual, under contract or subcontract to the Coast Guard to provide services
      and who requires physical and/or logical access to information systems and/or facilities.


   b. Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12 mandates a Federal standard for secure and reliable forms of identification for Federal
      employees and contractor employees.  The Common Access Card (CAC) is a personal identification card for the Department of Defense/Uniformed
      Services and complies with HSPD-12.  The Coast Guard has instituted the CAC as its HSPD-12 compliant personal identification card for
      contractor and subcontractor employees who are required to access a Coast Guard, Department of Defense (DOD), or other federally-controlled
      computer information system and/or facility, or need public key infrastructure (PKI) authentication to perform their contractual duties.
      The Contractor Verification System (CVS) is the automated application process for obtaining a CAC.


   c. Contractor and subcontractor employees working pursuant to this contract who are required to access a Coast Guard, DOD, or other federally-
      controlled computer information system and/or facility, or need PKI authentication to perform their contractual duties shall use CVS to
      obtain a CAC.


   d. The Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) shall serve as the CVS Trusted Agent and is responsible for creating contractor
      accounts in the CVS; approving, returning, or rejecting the CAC application (as applicable); re-verifying assigned contractors every six
      months; revoking contractor and employee eligibility for a CAC; and confiscating a CAC when the contract expires or when a contractor or
      subcontractor employee stops working under the contract.  Absent a COTR, the Contracting Officer shall serve as the CVS Trusted Agent.


   e. The COTR or Contracting Officer shall provide such forms to, or request such information from, contractor employees that may be necessary
      for obtaining a CAC via the CVS.  Completed forms and information shall be submitted as directed by the COTR or Contracting Officer.
      Contractors are responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the information submitted and for any liability resulting from the
      Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete information.


   f. Contractor or subcontractor employees who are declined a CAC via the CVS are ineligible to perform work under this contract.  When an
      employee with a CAC is no longer performing work under this contract, the contractor shall notify the COTR or Contracting Officer on the
      same day the employee stops working and shall deliver the CAC to the COTR or Contracting Officer within seven calendar days after such
      notification.


   g. The contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when a subcontractor’s employee is required to access a Coast Guard, DOD, or
      other federally-controlled computer information system and/or facility, or need PKI authentication to perform contractual duties.


28 Classified Contract Information


Performance of this contract requires the Contractor to gain access to Classified National Security Information (includes documents and
material).  Classified information is Government information which requires protection in accordance with Executive Order 12958, National
Security Information (NSI) as amended and supplemental directives.


The Contractor shall abide by the requirements set forth in the DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, an attachment to
the contract, and the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) for protection of classified information at its cleared
facility, if applicable, as directed by the Defense Security Service.  If the Contractor is required to have access to classified information at
a DHS or other Government Facility, it shall abide by the requirements set forth by the agency.


29 Observance of Legal Holidays and Excused Absence


   a. The Government hereby provides notification that Government personnel observe the listed days as holidays:


|(1) New Year's Day                                  |(6) Labor Day                             |
|(2) Martin Luther King's Birthday                   |(7) Columbus Day                          |
|(3) President’s Day                                 |(8) Veterans' Day                         |
|(4) Memorial Day                                    |(9) Thanksgiving Day                      |
|(5) Independence Day                                |(10) Christmas Day                        |


   b. In addition to the days designated as holidays, the Government observes the following days:


      1.    Any other day designated by Federal Statute


      2.    Any other day designated by Executive Order


      3.    Any other day designated by the President’s Proclamation


   c. It is understood and agreed between the Government and the Contractor that observance of such days by Government personnel shall not
      otherwise be a reason for an additional period of performance, or entitlement of compensation except as set forth within the contract.  In
      the event the Contractor’s personnel work during the holiday, they may be reimbursed by the Contractor, however, no form of holiday or
      other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, other than their normal compensation for the time
      worked.  This provision does not preclude reimbursement for authorized overtime work if applicable to this contract.


   d. When the Federal and governmental entities grants excused absence to its employees, assigned Contractor personnel may also be dismissed.
      The Contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform critical tasks already in operation or scheduled, and shall be
      guided by the instructions issued by the TO CO or the TO COTR.


   e. If Government personnel are furloughed, the Contractor shall contact the TO CO or the TO COTR to receive direction.  It is the Government’s
      decision as to whether the contract price/cost will be affected.  Generally, the following situations apply:


      1.    Contractor personnel that are able to continue contract performance (either on-site or at a site other than their normal work
        station) shall continue to work and the contract price shall not be reduced or increased.


      2.    Contractor personnel that are not able to continue contract performance (e.g., support functions) may be asked to cease their work
        effort.


   f. In those situations that furloughed Government personnel are reimbursed, the Contractor may not invoice for their employees working during
      the Government furlough until such time as the special legislation affecting Government personnel is signed into law by the President of
      the United States.


   g. Nothing in this clause abrogates the rights and responsibilities of the parties relating to stop work provisions as cited in other sections
      of this contract.


   h. Contractor and any subcontractor personnel assigned to this Task Order shall be granted access to the OSC during recognized Government
      holidays (see (a)) as necessary to provide staffing to meet system availability requirements of the systems supported at the OSC.


   i. The Contractor shall adhere to the USCG OSC’s facility policies on closing or delayed opening due to inclement weather, or other reasons as
      directed by the Commanding Officer through the Contracting Officer.


30 Non-Personal Services


The Government and the Contractor understand and agree that the services delivered by the Contractor to the Government are non-personal
services.  The parties also recognize and agree that no employer-employee or master-servant relationship exists or will exist between the
Government and the Contractor.  The Contractor and the Contractor’s employees are not employees of the Federal Government and are not eligible
for entitlement and benefits given federal employees.


Contractor personnel under this contract shall not (i) be placed in a position where there is an appearance that they are employed by a Federal
Officer, or are under the supervision, direction, or evaluation of a Federal Officer, or (ii) be placed in a position of command, supervision,
administration, or control over Government personnel.


31 Identification of Contractor Personnel


The Contractor shall ensure that its employees will identify themselves as employees of their respective company while working on DHS/USCG
contracts.  For example, contractor personnel shall introduce themselves in person and in voice-mail, as employees of their respective
companies, and not as DHS/USCG employees.  The Contractor shall ensure that their personnel use the following format signature on all officials
e-mails generated by DHS/USCG computers:


    • Name


    • Position or Professional Title


    • Company Name


    • USCG OSC


    • Phone


    • Fax


    • Other contact information as desired


32  FAR 42.15 Contractor Performance Information


FAR 42.15 requires agencies to prepare annual and final evaluations of Contractor performance.  DHS utilizes the Contractor Performance
Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to record and maintain past performance assessment information.  Once the Contractor is registered and a
performance assessment is prepared by the COTR and ready for comment, CPARS will send an e-mail to the Contractor representative with
notification that a performance evaluation is electronically available for review and comment.  The Contractor can elect to review the
evaluation and submit additional information or a rebuttal statement.  The Contractor will be permitted thirty (30) days to respond.  Contractor
response is voluntary.  Any disagreement between the parties regarding and evaluation will be referred to the Head of Contracting Activity,
whose decision is final.  Copies of the evaluations, contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract
file, and may be used to support future award decisions.

SECTION I – CONTRACT CLAUSES



I.1	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE





This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same full force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:   or for a DHS specific clause at  



I.2  FULL TEXT CLAUSES

52.204-1 Approval of Contract (DEC 1989) 

This contract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer and shall not be binding until so approved. 

52.215-19 Notification of Ownership Changes. (OCT 1997) 

a.	The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing:

1.	When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 30 days.

2.	The Contractor shall also notify the Contracting Officer within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership.

b.	The Contractor shall -

1.	Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs;

2.	Provide the Contracting Officer or designated representative ready access to the records upon request;

3.	Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor's ownership changes; and

4.	Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change.

c.	The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity (OCT 1995) 

This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule.  The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. 

Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the “maximum.”  The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the “minimum.” 

Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued.  The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. 

Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order.  The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 30 days. 

52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999) 

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed six months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days. 

52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000) 

The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five years. 

52.219-18 Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8(A) Concerns (JUN 2003) 

Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA's 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer - 

The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and 

The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action directed by the SBA. 

(b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. 

(c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the successful 8(a) Offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation. 

d. (1)."Agreement." A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas.  If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm.  This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts. 

(2).	The [insert name of SBA's contractor] will notify the [insert name of contracting agency] Contracting Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest to any other party. 

3052.209-72 Organizational Conflict of Interest. (JUN 2006) 

Determination:  The Government has determined that this effort may result in an actual or potential conflict of interest, or may provide one or more offerors with the potential to attain an unfair competitive advantage.  The nature of the conflict of interest and the limitation on future contracting ["description to be included if applicable to a specific task order"].

If any such conflict of interest is found to exist, the Contracting Officer may (1) disqualify the offeror, or (2) determine that it is otherwise in the best interest of the United States to contract with the offeror and include the appropriate provisions to avoid, neutralize, mitigate, or waive such conflict in the contract awarded.  After discussion with the offeror, the Contracting Officer may determine that the actual conflict cannot be avoided, neutralized, mitigated or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the Government, and the offeror may be found ineligible for award.

Disclosure: The offeror hereby represents, to the best of its knowledge that:

It is not aware of any facts which create any actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest relating to the award of this contract, or

It has included information in its proposal, providing all current information bearing on the existence of any actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest, and has included a mitigation plan in accordance with paragraph (d) of this provision.

Mitigation:  If an offeror with a potential or actual conflict of interest or unfair competitive advantage believes the conflict can be avoided, neutralized, or mitigated, the offeror shall submit a mitigation plan to the Government for review.  Award of a contract where an actual or potential conflict of interest exists shall not occur before Government approval of the mitigation plan.  If a mitigation plan is approved, the restrictions of this provision do not apply to the extent defined in the mitigation plan.

Other Relevant Information:  In addition to the mitigation plan, the Contracting Officer may require further relevant information from the offeror.  The Contracting Officer will use all information submitted by the offeror, and any other relevant information known to DHS, to determine whether an award to the offeror may take place, and whether the mitigation plan adequately neutralizes or mitigates the conflict.

Corporation Change:  The successful offeror shall inform the Contracting Officer within 30 calendar days of the effective date of any corporate mergers, acquisitions, and/or divestures that may affect this provision.

Flow-down:  The contractor shall insert the substance of this clause in each first tier subcontract that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold.





FAR Clause No.

Title and Date

52.202-1

Definitions (Jul 2004) 

52.203-3

Gratuities (Apr 1984) 

52.203-5

Covenant against Contingent Fees (Apr 1984)

52.203-6

Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government 

52.203-7

Anti-Kickback Procedures (Jul 1995) 

52.203-8

Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997)

52.203-10

Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (Jan 1997) 

52.203-11

Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (APR 1991)

52.203-12

Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sep 2007)

52.203-13

Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008)

52.203-14

Display of Hotline Posters (Dec 2007)

52.204-2

Security Requirements (Aug 1996)

52.204-4

Printed or Copied Double-Sided On Recycled Paper (Aug 2000) 

52.204-7

Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008) 

52.204-9

Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sep 2007) 

52.209-6

Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, Or Proposed For Debarment (Sep 2006)

52.215-2

Audit and Records - Negotiation. (Jun 1999) 

52.215-8

Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (Oct 1997) 

52.215-10

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (Oct 1997)

52.215-11

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data – Modification (Sep 1997)

52.215-14

Integrity of Unit Prices (Oct 1997) 

52.215-15

Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (Oct 2004) 

52.215-18

Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (Prb) Other Than Pensions (Jul 2005) 

52.216-7

Allowable Cost and Payment (Dec 2002)

52.216-8

Fixed Fee (Mar 1997) 

52.216-10

Incentive Fee (Mar 1997)

52.216-18

Ordering (Oct 1995)

52.216-19

Order Limitations ((OCT 1995)

52.216-22

Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995)

52.219-14

Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996)

52.219-16

Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999)

52.219-28

Post-Award Small Business Program Re-representation (Jun 2007) 

52.222-3

Convict Labor (Jun 2003)

52.222-19

Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Feb 2008)

52.222-20

Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (Dec 1996) 

52.222-21

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)

52.222-26

Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)

52.222-35

Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006)

52.222-36

Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998)

52.222-37

Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006)

52.222-41

Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) 

52.222-43

Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Nov 2006)

52.222-44

Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act – Price Adjustment (Feb 2002)

52.222-54

Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009)

52.223-3

Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data (Jan 1997) 

52.223-6

Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001) 

52.223-14

Toxic Chemical Release Reporting (Aug 2003) 

52.223-15

Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007)

52.223-16

IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007)

52.224-1

Privacy Act Notification (Apr 1984)

52.224-2

Privacy Act (Apr 1984)

52.225-1

Buy American Act – Supplies (Feb 2009)

52.225-14

Inconsistency between English Version and Translation of Contract (Feb 2000)

52.225-13

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008)

52.227-1

Authorization and Consent (Dec 2007) 

52.227-2

Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (Dec 2007) 

52.227-3

Patent Indemnity (Apr 1984) 

52.227-14

Rights in Data--General (Dec 2007) 

52.227-17

Rights in Data--Special Works (Dec 2007) 

52.227-18

Rights in Data - Existing Works (Dec 2007) 

52.227-19

Commercial Computer Software License (Dec 2007) 

52.227-21

Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding Of Payment--Major Systems (Dec 2007) 

52.227-22

Major System - Minimum Rights (Jun 1987) 

52.228-5

Insurance – Work on a Government Installation (Jan 1997)

52.229-3

Federal, State, and Local Taxes (Apr 2003) 

52.230-2

Cost Accounting Standards (Oct 2008) 

52.230-3

Disclosure and Consistency Of Cost Accounting Practices (Oct 2008) 

52.230-6

Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (Mar 2008) 

52.232-1

Payments (Apr 1984) 

52.232-8

Discounts for Prompt Payment (Feb 2002)

52.232-9

Limitation on Withholding Of Payments (Apr 1984) 

52.232-11

Extras (Apr 1984) 

52.232-16

Progress Payments (Apr 2003)

52.232-17

Interest (Oct 2008) 

52.232-18

Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) 

52.232-19

Availability of Funds for the Next Fiscal Year (Apr 1984)

52.232-20

Limitation of Cost (Apr 1984) 

52.232-22

Limitation of Funds (Apr 1984) 

52.232-23

Assignment of Claims (Jan 1986) 

52.232-25

Prompt Payment (Oct 2008) 

52.232-33

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)

52.233-1

Disputes (Jul 2002) 

52.233-2

Service of Protest (Sep 2006) 

52.233-3

Protest After Award (Jun 1985)

52.237-2

Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (Apr 1984) 

52.237-3

Continuity of Services (Jan 1991) 

52.239-1

Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996)

52.242-1

Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (Apr 1984) 

52.242-13

Bankruptcy (Jul 1995) 

52.242-71

Dissemination of Contract Information (Dec 2003)

52.243-1

Changes - Fixed-Price (Aug 1987) 

52.243-2

Changes - Cost-Reimbursement (Aug 1987) - Alternate I (Apr 1984) 

52.243-6

Change Order Accounting (Apr 1984)

52.244-2

Subcontracts (Jun 2007) 

52.244-5

Competition in Subcontracting (Dec 1996) 

52.245-1

Government Property (Jun 2007)

52.245-9

Use and Charges (Jun 2007) 

52.246-17

Warranty of Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature (Jun 2003)

52.246-18

Warranty of Supplies of a Complex Nature (May 2001)

52.246-19

Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria (May 2001)

52.246-20

Warranty of Services (May 2001)

52.246-23

Limitation of Liability (Feb 1997)

52.246-25

Limitation of Liability – Services (Feb 1997) 

52.247-64

Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006)

52.249-2

Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (May 2004) 

52.249-4

Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short Form) (Apr 1984) 

52.249-6

Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (May 2004) 

52.249-8

Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Apr 1984) 

52.249-14

Excusable Delays (Apr 1984) 

52.251-1

Government Supply Sources (Apr 1984)

52.252-2

Clauses Incorporated By Reference (Feb 1998) 

52.253-1

Computer Generated Forms (Jan 1991) 



SECTION J - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS



J.1	LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

J.1.1	Sample Task Order PWS



J.1.2	Vendor Enrollment Payment Form





J.1.3	Automated Information Systems (AIS) User Acknowledgement Form (CG-5500A)



J.1.4	Contract Security Classification Specifications (DD 254)





J.1.5	Department of Homeland Security MD 11042.1 Safeguarding Sensitive But Unclassified Information



J.1.6	Classified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement (SF 312)



J.1.7 	DHS Non-Disclosure Agreement (DHS 11000-6)





Attachment Number

Number of Pages

Attachment Title

1

46

Sample Task Order

2

1

EFT/ACH Vendor Enrollment Payment Form

3

1

Automated Information Systems (AIS) User Acknowledgement Form (CG-5500A)

4

2

DOD Contract Security Classification Specification (DD 254)

5

13

Department of Homeland Security MD 11042.1 Safeguarding Sensitive But Unclassified Information

6

2

Classified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement (SF 312)

7

3

DHS Non-Disclosure Agreement (DHS 11000-6)

                                   SECTION K â REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS





52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS â COMMERCIAL ITEMS ALT 1 (JUN 2009)




An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications
electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov.  If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA
website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision.

   a. Definitions. As used in this provision -

"Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS
code designated.

"Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-


     1. Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not
        offer himself voluntarily; or


     2. Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.

"Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except--

     1. FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;


     2. Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;


     3. FSG 88, Live Animals;


     4. FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;


     5. FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;


     6. FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;


     7. FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;


     8. FSC 9610, Ores;


     9. FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and


    10. FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.


"Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials
into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled,  the place of reassembly is
not the place of manufacture.

"Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-
related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007
(Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person conducting the business can demonstrate--

     1. Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;


     2. Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
        expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;


     3. Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;


     4. Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;


     5. Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or


     6. Have been voluntarily suspended.

"Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-


     1. Means a small business concern-


        i. Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business,
           not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and


       ii. The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
           service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.


     2. Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38
        U.S.C. 101(16).

"Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and size
standards in this solicitation.

"Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-


     1. Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly
        owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and


     2. The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

"Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by
one or more women.

"Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-


     1. That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
        of which is owned by one or more women; and
     2. Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.


   b. 1.    Annual Representations and Certifications.  Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not
        automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA)
        website.


      2.    The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov.
        After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and
        certifications currently posted electronically  at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been
        entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business
        size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this
        offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ________ (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (m) of
        this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or
        certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes
        provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
        certifications posted on ORCA.)


   c. Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying
      areas. Check all that apply.


     1. Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a small business concern.


     2. Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1)
        of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a veteran-owned small business concern.


     3. Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small
        business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a
        service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.


     4. Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1)
        of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ___ is, ___ is not a small disadvantaged business
        concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.


     5. Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
        this provision.) The offeror represents that it ___ is, ___ is not a women-owned small business concern.


Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.


     6. Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and
        did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ___ is a
        women-owned business concern.


     7. Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor
        surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount
        to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ____________________


     8. Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the
        Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business
        concern under the size standards for this solicitation.)


        i. (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated
           industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not an emerging small business.


       ii. (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated
           industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows:


           A. Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is
              expressed in terms of number of employees); or


           B. Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if
              size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts).

(Check one of the following):

                          Average Annual Gross Revenues
Number of Employees

___ 50 or fewer            ___ $1 million or less
___ 51-100                 ___ $1,000,001-$2 million
___ 101-250                ___ $2,000,001-$3.5 million
___ 251-500                ___ $3,500,001-$5 million
___ 501-750                ___ $5,000,001-$10 million
___ 751-1,000              ___ $10,000,001-$17 million
___ Over 1,000             ___ Over $17 million


     9. Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged
        Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the
        offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.


        i. General. The offeror represents that either-


           A. It ___ is, ___ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on
              the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small
              Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its
              certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each
              individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set
              forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or


           B. It ___ has, ___ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be
              certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application
              is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.


       ii. Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of
           its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in
           paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint
           venture. The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that  is participating in the joint venture:
           _______________________


    10. HUBZone small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
        provision.) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that--


        i. It ___ is, ___ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone
           Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal
           office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13
           CFR part 126; and


       ii. It ___ is, ___ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph
           (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
           venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the
           joint venture:____________.) Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed
           copy of the HUBZone representation.


   d. Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-


     1. Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-


        i. It ___ has, ___ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this
           solicitation; and


       ii. It ___ has, ___ has not filed all required compliance reports.


     2. Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-


        i. It ___ has developed and has on file, ___ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action
           programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or


       ii. It ___ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations
           of the Secretary of Labor.


   e. Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
      $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds
      have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of
      Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of
      any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror
      with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying
      Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to
      whom payments of reasonable compensation were made.


   f. Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act-Supplies, is
      included in this solicitation.)


     1. The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and
        that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced,  or manufactured
        outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do
        not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2)
        of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end
        product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy
        American Act--Supplies."


     2. Foreign End Products:

Line Item No.                Country of Origin
_____________                _________________
(List as necessary)


     3. The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.


   g. 1.    Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American
        Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)


        i. The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a
           domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined,
           produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially
           available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade
           Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product, " "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause
           of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act. "


       ii. The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan,
           Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act -
           Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act":

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

Line Item No.          Country of Origin
____________           _________________
(List as necessary)

      iii. The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this
           provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act." The
           offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic
           end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of
           "domestic end product."

Other Foreign End Products

Line Item No.          Country of Origin
____________           _________________
(List as necessary)

          iv. The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

     2. Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3  is
        included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph g.1.ii for paragraph g.1.ii of the basic provision:

                 g.1.ii  The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this
                 solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act":

Canadian End Products:

Line Item No.          Country of Origin
____________           _________________
(List as necessary)

     3. Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
        included in this  solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

                 (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the
                 clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act":

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

Line Item No.          Country of Origin
____________           _________________
(List as necessary)

     4. Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

        i. The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or
           designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements."
       ii. The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.

Other End Products:

Line Item No.          Country of Origin
____________           _________________
(List as necessary)

      iii. (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by
           the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions
           of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless
           the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient
           to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.


   h. Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
      simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
      principals--


     1. ___ are, ___ are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any
        Federal agency;


     2. ___ have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them
        for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a  Federal, state or
        local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or
        Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion,
        violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and


     3. ___ are, ___ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any
        of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and


     4. ___ Have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that
        exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.


        i. Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:


           A. The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally
              determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the
              liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.


           B. The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when
              full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.


       ii. Examples.
           A. The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec.  6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court
              review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer
              seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.


           B. The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a
              notice under I.R.C. Sec.  6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien
              filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the
              taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the
              liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this
              will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.


           C. The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec.  6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and
              is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to
              make full payment.


           D. The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed
              under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code).


   i. Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in
      paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
      Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).)


     1. Listed end products.

Listed End Product          Listed Countries of Origin
[ ]                         [ ]


     2. Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision,
        then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.)

        i. The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in
           the corresponding country as listed for that product.


       ii. The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the
           corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether
           forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the
           basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.


   j. Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
      statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects  to provide in
      response to this solicitation is predominantly--


     1. In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds
        the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or


     2. Outside the United States.


   k. Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
      respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt
      services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.)


     1. Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify
        that--


        i. The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or
           traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the
           course of normal business operations;


       ii. The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
           4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and


      iii. The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as
           that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.


     2. Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify that--


        i. The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or
           subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business
           operations;


       ii. The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
           4(d)(2)(iii));


      iii. Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly
           average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the
           contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and


       iv. The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that
           used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.


     3. If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies--


        i. If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service
           Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and


       ii. The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or
           (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.


   l. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
      information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)

     1. All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection
        requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations
        issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).


     2. The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the
        Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904,
        the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.


     3. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).


           ___ TIN: --------------------.
           ___ TIN has been applied for.
           ___ TIN is not required because:


           ___ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with
           the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in
           the United States;


           ___ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;


           ___ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.


     4. Type of organization.


           ___ Sole proprietorship;
           ___ Partnership;
           ___ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
           ___ Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
           ___ Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
           ___ Foreign government;
           ___ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
           ___ Other ----------.


     5. Common parent.


           ___ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
           ___ Name and TIN of common parent:


           Name --------------------.
           TIN --------------------.

      (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that it does not conduct any restricted
      business operations in Sudan.




SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS



GENERAL INFORMATION TO OFFERORS

STANDARD FORM OF CONTRACT AND PROPOSAL

The Offeror’s proposal response shall consist of:

(1) Signed cover letter certifying that the Offeror has read and agrees to comply with all the conditions and instructions provided in this solicitation document,

(2) Cost Proposal, to include completed Cost Templates and corresponding cost data for the Phase-In, Base, and all Option Periods (Section L, Attachment 4),

(3) Offeror’s Technical Proposal (Part I, II, III, and IV), 

(4) A completed copy of the Representations and Certifications at FAR 52.212-3, ALT I (JUN 2009) (Section K of the solicitation), and 

(5) Acknowledgement of Solicitation Amendments, if applicable.

(6)  The Offeror’s cognizant security office contact information (name, phone, e-mail).

INQUIRIES

Offerors shall only contact the Contracting Officer, Kathy P. Klein,   or Contract Specialist, Sherrie D. Walters,   for information about this solicitation.  Other Government personnel must not be contacted in regard to this solicitation prior to award.  Prospective Offerors are also cautioned to advise potential subcontractors or teaming members of this instruction.

Solicitation Amendments

Any amendments or other informational material issued by the Government prior to the due date for proposals will be made available only on FedBizOpps.  ().  The Government reserves the right to amend or cancel the solicitation as necessary to meet USCG requirements.

Incurring Cost Prior to Contract Execution

Issuance of this solicitation does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government.  This request does not commit the Government to pay for costs incurred prior to the execution of a formal contract unless specifically authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.  The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally obligate the Government to the expenditure of public funds should a contract result by reason of a response to this Request for Proposal.

Sample Task Order  

The hardware, network and infrastructure engineering work currently being performed at the OSC under the Systems Engineering and Technical Services (SETS II) Task Order #HSCGG3-05-F-TWV436, is representative of the type of tasking to be performed under the CTS IDIQ contract.  Accordingly, this solicitation includes a Sample Task Order encompassing all hardware, network and infrastructure engineering work currently being performed at OSC.  The Sample Task Order is included in Section J, Attachment 1.

It is anticipated that the initial CTS Task Order for the “follow-on” hardware, network and infrastructure engineering work at OSC will be issued immediately after award of the IDIQ contract and is anticipated to be effective 1 November 2010.  The initial Task Order will be Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF) type.

The period of performance for the initial CTS Task Order is 26 months.  The Task Order period will encompass a one month Phase-In Period (1 – 30 November 2010), a  one month Base Period (1 – 31 December 2010), and two annual 12 month option periods.

Offerors must demonstrate their technical capabilities, and past performance based on the requirements in the Sample Task Order.  Additionally, Offerors must base their cost proposal for the IDIQ contract on the tasking detailed in the Sample Task Order for the Phase-in, Base and all Option Periods (60 month period of performance) as stipulated in the CTS Cost Template in Section L, Attachment 4.

The IDIQ evaluated price will be based on the Cost Templates provided.

ACCESS TO BUILDING

The U.S. Coast Guard Operations Systems Center, located at , is a controlled access building.  At all times, prior arrangements for access must be made by contacting Kathy P. Klein, Contracting Officer, via e-mail  , or Sherrie D. Walters, Contract Specialist, via e-mail ,  at least 3 workdays prior to the date when access is required.  It is the Offeror’s responsibility to ensure that proposals are delivered by the due date and time required in the solicitation.

Access to Supplementary Technical Information

Compact Disks (CDs) with supplemental technical information will be available to interested Offerors.  The CDs will be available for distribution at the site visit on 23 June 2010.  One CD will be provided to each Offeror and/or Subcontractor.  The CD will include pertinent documents and data relevant to this solicitation.  

VENDOR SITE VISIT

The vendor site visit will be conducted at the Annex 1 Building of the OSC, on 23 June 2010 at 10:00 AM EDT.  Vendors must submit the full legal names and company affiliation of all persons wishing to attend the site visit to the Contracting Officer via e-mail  no later than  June 21, 2010,  12:00 NOON, EDT.  Only those persons listed on the official OSC Visitor Log for that date will be admitted.  Individuals must present a valid picture ID to OSC security personnel upon entering the premises. 

VENDOR QUESTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS

All vendor questions and clarifications pursuant to this solicitation must be received by the Contracting Officer,   or Contract Specialist, Sherrie Walters,   no later than 13 July 2010 at 3:00 PM EDT. The preferred method of submission is via e-mail. The Government reserves the right not to provide an answer for any vendor question/clarification received after the date and time stated above.  If, however, the Contracting Officer determines that a request cites an issue of significant importance, the Government will provide written responses to all Offerors.

Other than administrative information or previously communicated public information, the Government will not provide any additional information in response to telephone calls.  Contacting other USCG personnel regarding this solicitation in an attempt to gain procurement-sensitive information may result in disqualification from the evaluation process.

Written responses to all vendor questions/clarifications will be publicly posted on  with due regard to the proper protection of proprietary information.

NAICS AND SMALL BUSINESS SIZE STANDARD

This procurement is set-aside for 8(a) Business Development Program, NAICS code 518210 - Data Processing, Hosting and Related Services, and the small business size standard is $25M.

PRIME CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES

If the Offeror proposes a teaming arrangement, the Offeror shall be the prime Contractor and all other team members shall be subcontractors.  The prime Contractor shall be responsible for all requirements.

EXCEPTIONS AND DEVIATIONS

Offerors must state, as part of their proposals, any exceptions taken to the terms and conditions of the solicitation.  Any exceptions taken must contain sufficient amplification and justification to permit evaluation.  All benefits to the Government shall be explained for each exception taken.  Such exceptions will not, of themselves, automatically cause a proposal to be termed unacceptable.  A large number of exceptions, or one or more significant exceptions not providing benefit to the Government, may result in rejection of the proposal(s) as unacceptable.  Offerors are therefore encouraged to resolve any potential exceptions or deviations through the clarification process.

ALTERNATE PROPOSALS

Alternate proposals are not permitted.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PROPOSAL PREPARATION, DELIVERY AND PACKAGING

This section of the solicitation provides general guidance for preparing proposals as well as specific instructions on the format and content of the proposal.  The Offeror’s proposal must include all data and information requested by this solicitation document and must be submitted in accordance with these instructions.  Non-compliance with the instructions provided in the solicitation may result in an unfavorable proposal evaluation.

The written proposal shall be clear, concise, and shall include sufficient detail for effective evaluation and for substantiating the validity of stated claims.  The proposal should not simply rephrase or restate the solicitation requirements, but rather provide convincing rationale to address how the Offeror intends to meet these requirements.   

Offerors are cautioned that the quality of their proposals and adherence to solicitation response requirements and/or restrictions are considered reflective of the manner in which Offerers will be expected to conduct this contract and will be given due consideration throughout the evaluation process.  Offerors are strongly encouraged to emphasize content in response to all solicitation requirements.

All narrative text contained in the proposal response must be printed on 8 ½ x 11 paper with margins of at least 1” at the top, bottom, and both sides, using Times New Roman 12 point font.  For charts, tables, exhibits and figures, no less than 8 point font is acceptable.  Contractors are cautioned that proposal elements using a font less than 8 point Times New Roman will not be reviewed by the Government.   Proposal pages shall be printed single-side only.   Foldouts will be accepted for the cost proposal worksheets only.

Proposal Delivery 

Technical and Cost Proposals shall be submitted in two separate binders, along with one (1) electronic copy of both the Technical and Cost Proposals, each on a separate CD (one CD each for the Cost and Technical Proposals).  All Subcontractors must submit an electronic copy of their cost proposal in Excel format using the required worksheets in the Cost Template.  The electronic proposals should be submitted in a format that is compatible with Microsoft Office 2007.  The Technical Proposal shall consist of 4 separate sections:  Part 1, Part II, Part III, and Part IV.  Part I is the Offeror’s written submittal that corresponds to the technical approach.  Part II is the Offeror’s management approach.  Part III consists of the Offeror’s quality control program.  Part IV is the Offeror’s past performance.  The Technical Proposal shall include a one page proposal compliance matrix showing page and paragraph references for each specific proposal requirement.  The Technical Proposal shall include a one page table of contents.  The compliance matrix and table of contents is not included in the maximum 25 page count of the Offeror’s Technical Proposal.  All other pages will count against the page limit.

The Cost Proposal shall be in a separate binder.  

One (1) original and four (4) separate hardcopies of the Technical and Price/Cost Proposal shall be delivered by 3:00 PM EDT,  5 August 2010,  to the following address:

Kathy P. Klein

U. S. Coast Guard









When proposals are hand-carried or sent by courier service, Offerors assume the full responsibility for ensuring that the proposal is received at the location by the Contracting Officer by the required time.  All offers must be closed and sealed as if for mailing and fully identified on the sealed envelope.  Please note that there are no provisions for acceptance of late offers sent by overnight courier service regardless of the date of mailing.  Offerors are hereby notified that the building located at the address stated above is a secure building and only uniformed couriers such as Federal Express, DHL, UPS, etc., will be allowed access into the building.  All other couriers will be required to leave packages with U.S. Coast Guard OSC security personnel for delivery by the USCG mail courier.

Proposal Packaging

The Technical and Cost Proposals shall be delivered in separate volumes, bound in separate binders of minimum size to contain the material.  A binder cover sheet shall be affixed to the outer cover of each volume, which clearly identifies each volume (by volume number and name), original or copy number (e.g., copy 1 of 3), the solicitation number, date of submission, the Offeror’s name, and the names of the first-tier Subcontractors.  Each part of the Offeror’s proposal shall be separated by a tab to clearly identify the sections within a particular proposal volume.  There shall be no writing on the tab index page other than that writing necessary to identify the tab particular section.

PROPOSAL PREPARATION

Technical Proposal Requirements and Instructions

The Technical Proposal shall consist of the Offeror’s technical approach for satisfying the requirements of the Sample Task Order.  The Technical Proposal shall clearly delineate the division of performance between the Prime Contractor and the first-tier Subcontractor(s), if applicable.  The Offeror’s technical proposal will consist of 4 separate sections:  Part 1 (Technical Approach), Part II (Management Approach), Part III (Quality Control Program), and Part IV (Past Performance).  

L.2.3.1.1	PART I – TECHNICAL APPROACH 

Page Limitation:  Page limitation: Not to exceed 30 pages, single-sided. One cover page and one table of contents are allowed in addition to the 30 page limit.

The Technical Proposal shall address each work area in sufficient detail to demonstrate a clear understanding of the Sample Task Order.  General statements that the Offeror understands, can, or will perform the listed functions without supporting information/narrative is inadequate.  Paraphrasing the PWS or parts thereof, is similarly inadequate, as are phrases such as “standard procedures will be employed” or “well-known techniques will be used.”  This section shall be written to enable evaluators to make a thorough analysis as to whether the services offered adequately respond to the specific Government requirements in the Sample Task Order.  The Technical Proposal shall clearly delineate and explain the division of performance between the prime Contractor and the first-tier subcontractor(s), if applicable.  

Specifically, the Offerors’ proposal shall demonstrate their ability to provide support for hardware engineering (including lifecycle support of the operating system), network engineering, and infrastructure services for current and future IT engineering initiatives supporting DHS and USCG enterprise applications.  This support includes procurement, initial configuration, and lifecycle support of hardware and software supporting enterprise applications.  The Offeror’s technical approach shall address all sub-factors listed in Section M. 

L.2.3.1.2	PART II (FACTOR 2): MANAGEMENT APPROACH

Page Limitation:  Page limitation: Not to exceed 20 pages, single-sided, excluding submission of Offeror’s proposed Resumes of Key Personnel (resumes are limited to 2 pages each and a 1 page Letter of Commitment), and labor category position descriptions (descriptions are limited to 1 page for each labor category).  One cover page and one table of contents are allowed in addition to the 20 page limit.

For the Sample Task Order, the Offerors’ proposal shall clearly describe  their management approach with emphasis on the applied use of management controls, IT certification concepts and policies to ensure appropriate management and execution of tasking detailed in the Sample Task Order.    The Offeror’s proposal shall describe their approach to developing and implementing Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and monitoring Contractor performance against the SLA requirements.  The Offeror’s management approach shall address the strategy for implementing integrated product teams.  This includes the integration of the Offeror and their Subcontractors, as well as the Government and other Contractor personnel into integrated product teams to support all IT engineering activities.  The Offerors’ proposed organizational structure and staffing shall clearly demonstrate the Offerors’ ability to successfully accomplish all tasking in the Sample Task Order.  This should include the management approach to implementation, tracking and reporting of proposed metrics.

It is expected that resumes for key personnel shall articulate the scope and specific type of IT management experience for this initiative.  Offerors shall identify current information technology certifications held by Key Personnel and shall describe how these certifications support the Offeror’s technical approach.  Offerors shall address the extent to which the proposed Key Personnel have committed themselves to work on this effort, and shall state whether these Key Personnel have worked on any of the contracts used as past performance references.  Offerors shall provide position descriptions for each labor category.  This information shall be provided for all levels of personnel proposed.  The Offeror’s management approach shall address all sub-factors listed in Section M.

L.2.3.1.3	PART III (FACTOR 3): QUALITY CONTROL

Page Limitation:  Page limitation: Not to exceed 7 pages, single-sided. One cover page and one table of contents are allowed in addition to the 7 page limit.

Offerors shall describe their corporate Quality Control Program and how the Contractor will implement and evaluate on-site quality control efforts for the Sample Task Order.  Quality control shall address the method of ensuring the quality of delivered IT services and capabilities, continuous improvement initiatives, and the accuracy of cost, labor, and invoice projections.  The quality control program narrative shall also include a discussion of the proposed methods for ensuring cost accountability through the use of efficient and effective solutions and alternatives. The Offeror’s quality control program shall address all sub-factors listed in Section M.

L.2.3.1.4	PART IV (FACTOR 4):  PAST PERFORMANCE REFERENCES

Page Limitation:  Not to exceed 15 pages, single-sided.

The Offeror’s recent and relevant performance relative to work of similar in size, content, scope, and complexity to the requirements of the Sample Task Order will be evaluated.  This evaluation will include Past Performance References for the Offeror and all first-tier Subcontractors.  The evaluation will also include the past performance questionnaires submitted by the Offeror’s customers.  In accordance with the FAR, the Government may supplement the information contained in the proposal with information obtained from other Government organizations and personnel, commercial sources, public information sources, and if applicable, data gathered during the discussion phase of the evaluation.  Emphasis will be given to the extent of direct experience and quality of past performance on previous contracts that are recent and relevant to the effort defined in the Sample Task Order.

Past Performance information shall not exceed 3 pages per reference.  The Past Performance Information submitted in Part IV will address the following:

Offers shall identify Past Performance References (3 for the Prime Contractor and 2 for each first-tier Subcontractor) for separate contracts/Task Orders performed with the Federal Government, state or local government, a quasi-governmental organization, or a commercial organization.  The references shall cover performance by the Offeror and all proposed first-tier Subcontractors.  For the purposes of this solicitation, the definition of first-tier subcontractor is any subcontractor holding a subcontract with the prime contractor that will be performing work equating to 15% or more of the tasking for each individual period of performance (base and all options).

References provided shall be from within the last 3 years, been performed for a minimum of 1 year, and should be of comparable type, size, scope, and complexity to the requirements in the Sample Task Order.  Information submitted to describe past performance shall directly relate to the Offeror and the first-tier Subcontractor(s) (i.e., do not include work performed under the same contract by another party).   Subcontractor data shall reflect comparable contract performance (type of work) for which they are proposed on this Contract.

NOTE:   It is understood that the Prime Offeror may not have references of comparable “size.”  Therefore, the Government’s evaluation will focus on the combined references submitted for the Prime Offeror and first-tier Subcontractors.



Offerors shall provide the following information, for each Past Performance Reference:

Customer’s name, address, and telephone number, and email of the contracts and technical points of contact. Ensure that the information is current and accurate by verifying the all contact information.

Contract type and total value.

Date contract was awarded, place(s) of performance, and contract period of performance.

Average number of personnel on the contract per year and labor categories for these personnel.

Describe how the respective contract is similar in size, content, and complexity to the CTS requirement. It is not sufficient to state that it is comparable in magnitude and scope.  Rationale must be provided to clearly demonstrate that it is comparable.

Terminated contracts (partial or complete) within the past three years and the basis for termination (convenience or default).  Include the contract number, name, address, and telephone number of the terminating contracting officer.  Include contracts, or portions of contracts that were “de-scoped” by the customer because of performance or cost problems.

Describe any awards or other recognition received from customers.

L.2.3.1.5	Past Performance Questionnaire

In addition to the required Past Performance Reference Information, the Offeror shall include Past Performance Questionnaires (Section L, Attachment 1) for each of the Past Performance References provided in the Technical Proposal.   Offerors are advised that questions in the past performance questionnaires receiving an Excellent or Very Good rating require comments from the Evaluating Organization otherwise the Government will consider the rating for the question to be Satisfactory.

The Past Performance Questionnaires shall be mailed directly from the Evaluating Organization to the Contracting Officer.  It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure Past Performance Questionnaires arrive not later than date and time of receipt of proposals, to the following address:



Kathy P. Klein

U. S. Coast Guard











NOTE:  The Government reserves the right to contact and use information provided by the references and any other sources.  It is the Offeror’s responsibility to ensure all reference data is current so that the performance information can be evaluated.

PRICE/COST PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Offerors are to submit price/cost proposals that provide complete pricing/costing as required to comply with the Schedule in Section B of the solicitation and the instructions contained in Section L of the solicitation.  Offerors will be advised that pricing/costing should be:	

	1)  Realistic for the work to be performed;

	2)  Reflect a clear understanding of the requirements;

	3)  Consistent with the various elements of the Offerors’ technical proposal.

Cost/Price will not be rated but will be evaluated with respect to completeness, reasonableness, and realism based on information submitted in the Offeror’s cost proposal.  The proposed labor skill mix associated with the proposed labor rates will be analyzed to determine if the prices proposed for the periods of performance are reasonable and realistic for the work described in the Sample Task Order.  


Completeness

The cost proposals will be evaluated as to completeness, including the adequacy of supporting data.  This includes the identification, estimation, and documentation of elements of direct and indirect costs.  The cost proposals must be prepared and supported in accordance with Section L, Attachment 4.

Reasonableness

The cost proposals will be evaluated for the reasonableness of the overall cost/price and the individual cost elements.  This evaluation will determine if costs or elements of costs of the Offerors’ proposals are reasonableness given the nature of the work to be performed in the Sample Task Order, and the supporting explanations and information provided.  If subcontractors are used, each is required to submit the same level of pricing/costing detail as is required for the prime contractor.

Realism

The cost proposals will be evaluated for realism, involving a summary level review of the cost portion of the Offerors’ proposals to determine if the overall costs proposed are realistic for the work to be performed.  The cost realism analysis includes examination of the following elements: 

 Direct Labor:  Do the direct labor costs indicate appropriate labor hours and appropriate labor mix for the proposed tasking?  Are proposed labor hours consistent with the RFP requirements?  Are the labor rates consistent with the proposed labor categories? 

 Other Direct Costs:  Did the Offerors include the Government provided ODC costs in their proposals?

 Indirect Costs.  Are the proposed indirect costs (general and administrative expenses, etc.,) realistic with respect to the RFP requirements?

Overall Costs.  Are the overall cost figures realistic and do they indicate the ability to support the RFP requirements?

The Cost Template (Section L, Attachment 4) provides details on all cost elements mandatory for submission by the Offeror.  

L.2.3.2.1	Completion of Cost Template 

The Cost Template for the Phase-In Period, Base Period, and all Option Periods must be completed and submitted with the Offeror’s proposal response.  For each spreadsheet provided, the estimated labor cost and fixed fee cost (not a percentage) for the respective period of performance must be stated.  For the purposes of evaluation, other direct costs (ODCs) estimated by the Government will be considered equal for all Offerors.  The Government’s ODC estimates will be used for evaluating cost proposals.  Any and all other indirect costs applied to the Government’s estimated ODC’s will be part of the Offeror’s total evaluated cost and must be included in the Offeror’s cost proposal.  Offerors must retain all formulas for calculations within the spreadsheets.  Indirect rates listed on the Key Rates tab of the Cost Elements workbook must match those rates used for calculations in other tabs within the Cost Template, to include the number of decimal places.

The contractor will provide complete supporting schedules identifying all applicable direct and indirect rate estimates building up to the proposal cost.  Contractors with approved DCAA rates should submit their most recent provisional indirect billing and actual rates for both direct and indirect rates.   Contractors without audited rates shall propose indirect rates in accordance with FAR Part 31.  The fee will be negotiated for each task order proposal consistent with statutory limitations. 

L.2.3.2.2	Cost Template Components

Offerors’ Cost/Price Proposals shall have the components as detailed in the CTS Cost Template, provided as a Microsoft Excel workbook in Section L, Attachment 4.  Data in the detailed worksheets for each performance period is arranged by system for purposes of Government budgeting and evaluation purposes.  Offerors are encouraged to provide staffing requirements with the aim of providing overarching core technologies enterprise services and Task Order support rather than focusing on staffing individual enterprise service area teams.  Offerors should strive to develop staffing profiles which promote and achieve functional efficiencies through matrixed resource assignments.  

The Cost Template must be completed for the Transition, Base and all Option Periods, and submitted with the Offeror’s proposal response.  The total number of full time equivalent (FTEs) hours for each performance period are indicated in each table (ex., for the 12-month Option Period 1, 1 FTE is equal to 1850 hours).  The Cost Template must be completed in its entirety.

The following data is provided to assist in preparing cost/price proposals: 

FY09 SETS II Historical Data (spreadsheet), Section L, Attachment 2.

FY10 Level of Effort Budget Data, Section L, Attachment 3.



The table below is a summary of the workbook components.

Completion of the Cost Template will allow for a streamlined review of cost proposals.  The specific formats provided are required to ensure that costs are compiled using the same methodology to facilitate efficient evaluations of cost proposals. 

The spreadsheets are not protected to allow for adjustments as necessary to support the technical approach, but overall structure of each component shall not be modified.  The spreadsheet has been pre-populated with some formulas for illustrative purposes.  Due to variations in how costs are assigned by different Offerors, not all formulas were included to allow flexibility in submitting the cost proposal.  Offerors are responsible for validating all data provided in the Cost Template.

L.2.3.2.3	Summary Pricing Tables

The Summary Pricing Tables (Section B, Attachment 1) will provide a roll-up of the detailed costs proposed in the Cost Template (Section L, Attachment 4).  The Summary Pricing Tables must be completed and submitted with the Offeror’s cost proposal response.  For each Summary Pricing Table (Phase-In, Base, and all Option Periods), the estimated labor cost and fixed fee for the respective period of performance must be stated.  ODC costs in the Summary Pricing Tables should reflect the Government’s estimated ODCs with all applicable indirect rates applied.  

DCAA Approved Accounting System

The Offeror must have an adequate accounting system that is in compliance with FAR 16.301.3(a)(1) that has been or will be reviewed and deemed adequate by DCAA.  If available, provide the audit report number and date associated with the accounting system review for each team member.  If you do not have a copy of the report, you may furnish the audit report number. 

If the Offeror’s accounting system has not been audited to determine adequacy, then upon award, DCAA will be requested to perform a review of the Offeror’s and/or team’s accounting system, and agree in advance to correct any issues identified by DCAA in the accounting system.

FAR 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the Offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer.  Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address:  .

FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) PROVISIONS

NUMBER		DATE		Title

52.204-6	OCT 2003	Data Universal Numbering System 
		(DUNS) Number

52.214-34		APR 1991	Submission of Offers in the English Language
52.214-35		APR 1991	Submission of Offers in  Currency

52.215-1	JAN 2004	Instructions To Offerors—Competitive 
		Acquisition

52.215-8	OCT 1997	Order of Precedence-Uniform Contract Format

52.222-24	FEB 1999	Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance
		Evaluation

52.222-46		FEB 1993	Evaluation Of Compensation For 
					Professional Employees					

52.232-38		MAY 1999	Submission Of Electronic Funds Transfer Information 
					With Offer

52.237-1		APR 1984	Site Visit


					


 FAR CLAUSES, FULL TEXT

FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of an Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract as a result of this solicitation. 

At the discretion of the Contracting Officer, the Government may use a variety of contract types for task orders issued under the IDIQ contract, to include:  Firm Fixed Price (FFP), Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF), Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF) and Cost Plus Performance Incentive Fee (CPPIF).  Each Task Order Request for Proposal issued under this IDIQ contract will identify the Government’s determination of task order type.

FAR 52.233-2 – SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed 
directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) 
by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from the Contracting Officer. 
(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of
filing a protest with the GAO. 

COMMANDING OFFICER (OSC)
408 Coast Guard Drive 
Kearneysville, WV 25430 

NOTICE FOR FILING AGENCY PROTESTS

It is the policy of the Coast Guard to issue solicitations and make contract awards in a fair and timely manner.  The Ombudsman Program for Agency Protests (OPAP) was established to investigate agency protest issues and resolve them without expensive and time-consuming litigation.  OPAP is an independent reviewing authority that is empowered to grant a prevailing protester essentially the same relief as the General Accounting Office (GAO).

Interested parties are encouraged to seek resolution of their concerns within the Coast Guard as an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) forum, rather than filing a protest with the GAO or some external forum.  Interested parties may seek resolution of their concerns informally or opt to file a formal agency protest with the contracting officer or Ombudsman.

Informal forum with the Ombudsman.  Interested parties who believe that a Coast Guard procurement is unfair or otherwise defective should first direct their concerns to the cognizant contracting officer.  If the contracting officer is unable to satisfy the concerns, the interested party is encouraged to contact the Coast Guard Ombudsman for Agency Protests.  Under this informal process, the agency is not required to suspend contract award performance.  Use of an informal forum does not suspend any time requirement for filing a protest with the agency or other forum.  In order to ensure a timely response, interested parties should provide the following information to the Ombudsman:  solicitation/contract number, contracting office, contracting officer, and solicitation closing date (if applicable). 

Formal Agency Protest with the Ombudsman.  Prior to submitting a formal agency protest, protesters must first use their best efforts to resolve their concerns with the contracting officer through open and frank discussions.  If the protester’s concerns are unresolved, an independent review is available by the Ombudsman.  The protester may file a formal agency protest to either the contracting officer or as an alternative to that, the Ombudsman under the OPAP program.  Contract award or performance will be suspended during the protest period unless contract award or performance is justified, in writing, for urgent and compelling reasons or is determined in writing to be in the best interest of the Government.  The agency’s goal is to resolve protests in less than 35 calendar days from the date of filing.  Protests shall include the information set forth at FAR 33.103(d)(2).  If the protester fails to submit the required information, resolution of the protest may be delayed or the protest may be dismissed.  This will not preclude re-filing of the protest to meet the requirement.  To be timely, protests must be filed within the period specified in FAR 33.103(e).  Formal protests filed under the OPAP program should submitted to:

Department of Homeland Security
United States Coast Guard (CG-9131)
Ombudsman Program for Agency Protests
1900 Half Street, SW, Room 11-0602
Washington DC  20593-0001
FAX:  202-475-3904


FAR 52.219-18 NOTIFICATION OF COMPETITION LIMITED TO ELIGIBLE 8(a) CONCERNS-ALT III (DEVIATION)(NOV 2005)

 (a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA’s 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer— 

(1) The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and 

(2) The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action directed by the SBA. 

(b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. 

(c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made directly by the Contracting Officer to the successful 8(a) Offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation.

 (d)(1) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the  or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts. 

(2) The ____________ [insert name of SBA's contractor] will notify the ____________ [insert name of contracting agency] Contracting Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest to any other party. 

EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FAR 52.222-46) (FEB 1993)

Recompetition of service contracts may in some cases result in lowering the compensation (salaries and fringe benefits) paid or furnished professional employees. This lowering can be detrimental in obtaining the quality of professional services needed for adequate contract performance. It is therefore in the Government’s best interest that professional employees, as defined in 29 CFR 541, be properly and fairly compensated. As part of their proposals, Offerors will submit a total compensation plan setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for the professional employees who will work under the contract. The Government will evaluate the plan to assure that it reflects a sound management approach and understanding of the contract requirements. This evaluation will include an assessment of the Offeror’s ability to provide uninterrupted high-quality work.  The professional compensation proposed will be considered in terms of its impact upon recruiting and retention, its realism, and its consistency with a total plan for compensation.  Supporting information will include data, such as recognized national and regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations, used in establishing the total compensation structure. 

The compensation levels proposed should reflect a clear understanding of work to be performed and should indicate the capability of the proposed compensation structure to obtain and keep suitably qualified personnel to meet mission objectives.  The salary rates or ranges must take into account differences in skills, the complexity of various disciplines, and professional job difficulty.  Additionally, proposals envisioning compensation levels lower than those of predecessor contractors for the same work will be evaluated on the basis of maintaining program continuity, uninterrupted high-quality work, and availability of required competent professional service employees.  Offerors are cautioned that lowered compensation for essentially the same professional work may indicate lack of sound management judgment and lack of understanding of the requirement. 

The quality and stability of the work force to be employed on task orders issued under this IDIQ contract is important to the Government.  Professional compensation that is unrealistically low or not in reasonable relationship to the various job categories may impair the Contractor’s ability to attract and retain competent professional service employees.  This may be viewed as evidence of failure to comprehend the complexity of the contract requirements. 

FAR 52.237-10 IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Uncompensated overtime” means the hours worked without additional compensation in excess of an average of 40 hours per week by direct charge employees who are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act. Compensated personal absences such as holidays, vacations, and sick leave shall be included in the normal work week for purposes of computing uncompensated overtime hours. 

“Uncompensated overtime rate” is the rate that results from multiplying the hourly rate for a 40-hour work week by 40, and then dividing by the proposed hours per week. For example, 45 hours proposed on a 40-hour work week basis at $20 per hour would be converted to an uncompensated overtime rate of $17.78 per hour ($20.00  40 divided by 45 = $17.78). 

(b) For any proposed hours against which an uncompensated overtime rate is applied, the Offeror shall identify in its proposal the hours in excess of an average of 40 hours per week, by labor category at the same level of detail as compensated hours, and the uncompensated overtime rate per hour, whether at the prime or subcontract level. This includes uncompensated overtime hours that are in indirect cost pools for personnel whose regular hours are normally charged direct. 

(c) The Offeror’s accounting practices used to estimate uncompensated overtime must be consistent with its cost accounting practices used to accumulate and report uncompensated overtime hours. 

(d) Proposals that include unrealistically low labor rates, or that do not otherwise demonstrate cost realism, will be considered in a risk assessment and will be evaluated for award in accordance with that assessment. 

(e) The Offeror shall include a copy of its policy addressing uncompensated overtime with its proposal. 

FAR 52.252-6 AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

Whenever any FAR or supplemental clause is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the clause when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental clause, except that the contracting officer shall insert “(DEVIATION)” after the date of the clause. 

52.252-1 Solicitation Provision Incorporated by Reference

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):











SEcTION L 

ATTACHMENT 1: PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

This attachment contains the Past Performance Questionnaire that is required for the CTS contract.  





SECTION l 

ATTACHMENT 2: fy09 sets II historical data

Due to formatting and sizing constraints, the FY09 SETS II Historical Data spreadsheets have been embedded in the object below.  The spreadsheets should be printed to legal size copy paper for best viewing.  Click on the icon to view actual FY09 labor breakdown and all other direct costs.











SECTION L 

Attachment 3: FY10 Level of effort Budget Data

Due to formatting and sizing constraints, the FY10 Level of Effort Budget Data spreadsheet is embedded in the object below.  The spreadsheets should be printed to legal size copy paper for best viewing.  Click on the icons to view the complete CTS labor and other direction costs (ODC) projections for FY10.  













SECTION l 

ATTACHMENT 4: CTS cost Template

Due to formatting and sizing constraints, the CTS Cost Template summary spreadsheet is embedded in the object below.  The spreadsheets should be printed to legal size copy paper for best viewing.  Click on the icon to view the information.











	



Cost Template Component 

Component Overview

1. CTS Cost Proposal Summary

The cost proposal summary provides total costs for the Phase-in Period, Base Period, and each Option Period. (TAB NAME = Summary)

2. Cost Elements

A separate worksheet identifying all separate elements of cost by performance period including: direct labor, subcontractor costs, the other directs costs (ODCs) provided by the Government, applicable indirect cost rates, and fixed fee. (TAB NAME = Cost Elements)

3. Key Rates

A separate worksheet identifying key rates for all performance periods including: fringe benefits, overhead, material/subcontract handling, G&A, salary escalation, and any other indirect cost rates that may be applicable.  A separate worksheet shall be completed for the Prime and all Subcontractors.  (TAB NAME = Key Rates)

4. Hours

A separate worksheet shall be completed by the Prime and all Subcontractors with the number of proposed hours by labor category for each performance period.   (TAB NAME = Hours)

5. Ratios

This worksheet shall provide the distribution of hours among the Prime and all Subcontractors for all performance periods. (TAB NAME = Ratios)

6. Assumptions

All general and specific cost assumptions for all performance periods must be identified in this worksheet. The assumptions should include a description and application of the stated assumption. (TAB NAME = Assumptions)

7. Phase-In Costs 

This worksheet will reflect all proposed costs for the one-month Phase-In effort (1 – 30 November 2010).  (TAB NAME = Phase-In)

8. Base Period Costs

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for the Base Period (1 - 31 December 2010).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Base)

9. Option Period 1 Costs  

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for Option Period 1 (1 January through 31 December 2011).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Option Period 1)

10. Option Period 2 Costs 

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for Option Period 2 (1 January through 31 December 2012).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Option Period 2)

11. Option Period 3 Costs  

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for Option Period 3 (1 January through 31 December 2013).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Option Period 3)

12. Option Period 4 Costs  

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for Option Period 4 (1 January through 31 December 2014).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Option Period 4)

13. Option Period 5 Costs 

This worksheet details hours and costs by System for Option Period 5 (1 January through 31 October 2015).  Hours will be proposed by labor category and level.  Estimated ODCs provided by the Government have been included on the worksheet.  Offerors should apply all other indirect costs in the cells provided.  Composite Burdened Labor Rates should be applied to proposed hours.  The worksheet will calculate the total Enterprise Service area cost. (TAB NAME = Option Period 5)

                                                     SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD


1 EVALUATION AND SOURCE SELECTION – GENERAL



   a) The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications, as described in
      FAR 15.306(a)).  Therefore the Offeror’s initial proposal should contain the Offeror’s best terms from a cost/price and technical
      standpoint.  The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary.


   b) Evaluation Factors:  The evaluation factors are Technical Approach, Management Approach, Quality Control, Past Performance, and Cost/Price.
       Section M provides a further description for each evaluation factor and sub-factors.


   c) Relative Order of Importance of Evaluation Factors:  The Technical Approach evaluation factor will be of greater importance than the
      Management Approach evaluation factor.  The Sub-Factors under each Factor are of equal importance.  The Technical Approach and Management
      Approach factors are more important than both the Quality Control and Past Performance factors.  The combined technical factors (Technical
      Approach, Management Approach, Quality Control, and Past Performance) are more important than Cost/Price.  Cost significance will increase
      if technical evaluations approach equivalence, possibly promoting cost to a determinative factor.  The Government’s evaluation of the
      Technical Proposal will be done separately from the evaluation of the Cost/Price Proposal.
   d) Award will be made to the Offeror whose proposal is determined to provide the best value to the Government after consideration of all
      information.  For the purpose of this solicitation, “best value” is defined as the procurement process that results in the most
      advantageous acquisition decision for the Government and is performed through an integrated assessment and trade-off analysis between the
      technical and cost factors.

2 TECHNICAL EVALUATION FACTORS AND SUB-FACTORS


Factor 1: Technical Approach

The Technical Proposal shall address each work area in sufficient detail to demonstrate a clear understanding of the Sample Task Order.  General
statements that the Offeror understands, can, or will perform the listed functions without supporting information/narrative is inadequate.
Paraphrasing the PWS or parts thereof, is similarly inadequate, as are phrases such as “standard procedures will be employed” or “well-known
techniques will be used.”  This section shall be written to enable evaluators to make a thorough analysis as to whether the services offered
adequately respond to the specific Government requirements in the Sample Task Order.  The Technical Proposal shall clearly delineate and explain
the division of performance between the prime Contractor and the first-tier subcontractor(s), if applicable.  The Offerors’ technical approach
shall address the sub-factors listed below:

Sub-Factor 1:  Proposed technical approach supports PWS requirements for the Sample Task Order.

Offerors shall describe, in detail, the proposed technical approach for addressing the requirements in the Sample Task Order.  Specifically, the
Offerors’ proposal shall demonstrate their ability to provide support for hardware engineering (including lifecycle support of the operating
system), network engineering, and infrastructure services for current and future IT engineering initiatives supporting DHS and USCG enterprise
applications.  This support includes procurement, initial configuration, and lifecycle support of hardware and software supporting enterprise
applications.  Offerors shall include a narrative discussion of how the unique aspects of their technical approach which will result in cost
savings and/or improved efficiency for the Government.  The proposal shall include a discussion of knowledge, experience and applied use of
industry best practices for supporting networks (LAN, WAN and data floor), infrastructure as a service, enterprise storage, enterprise backups
and monitoring, utility computing, and other critical services and collaboration infrastructure.  The Offerors’ technical approach shall address
their strategy for evaluating and recommending new and emerging technologies to support USCG IT infrastructure.  The Offerors’ proposal shall
provide a mapping of their technical approach to the SDLC phases to demonstrate a clear alignment with the USCG SDLC.  The Offeror’s proposal
shall describe the use of metrics for reporting performance against established SLAs and other elements of the Sample Task Order.

Sub-Factor 2:  Use of industry standard tools.

The proposal shall demonstrate knowledge and experience with industry standard  tools, hardware, infrastructure components, and network devices
to support the enhancement and operations and maintenance activities in the Sample Task Order.  This should include a narrative discussion of
the Offeror’s experience in the implementation and use of tools to support IT engineering activities including, but not limited to: source code
control, consolidated logging, automated testing, backup and monitoring, application diagnostics, IT inventory, and configuration management.
The Offeror should not limit their response to this subset of activities but should describe their ability to provide services to support a
software development center.  This includes the procurement and demonstrated use of hardware and software available under Enterprise License
Agreements (ELAs) in support of tasking identified in the Sample Task Order.


Factor 2: Management Approach.

For the Sample Task Order, the Offerors’ proposal shall clearly describe  their management approach with emphasis on the applied use of
management controls, IT certification concepts and policies to ensure appropriate management and execution of tasking detailed in the Sample
Task Order.    The Offeror’s proposal shall describe their approach to developing and implementing Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and
monitoring Contractor performance against the SLA requirements.  The Offeror’s management approach shall address the strategy for implementing
integrated product teams.  This includes the integration of the Offeror and their Subcontractors, as well as the Government and other Contractor
personnel into integrated product teams to support all IT engineering activities.  The Offerors’ proposed organizational structure and staffing
shall clearly demonstrate the Offerors’ ability to successfully accomplish all tasking in the Sample Task Order.  This should include the
management approach to implementation, tracking and reporting of proposed metrics.

It is expected that resumes for key personnel shall articulate the scope and specific type of IT management experience for this initiative.
Offerors shall identify current information technology certifications held by Key Personnel and shall describe how these certifications support
the Offeror’s technical approach.  Offerors shall address the extent to which the proposed Key Personnel have committed themselves to work on
this effort, and shall state whether these Key Personnel have worked on any of the contracts used as past performance references.  Offerors
shall provide position descriptions for each labor category.  This information shall be provided for all levels of personnel proposed.  The
Offerors’ management approach shall address the sub-factors listed below:

Sub-Factor 1:  Management organization and business model.

Offerors will be evaluated on their overall management organization and business model for accomplishing the requirements of the Sample Task
Order.  The proposal shall address the degree of autonomy of the on-site Contract Program Manager with respect to management of personnel,
subcontractors, and overall execution of tasking for the Sample Task Order.  The Offerors’ proposed organization and business model shall
demonstrate relevant aspects including, but not limited to: proposed plan for utilizing Integrated Product Teams (IPTs), proposed approach to
project planning, scheduling and communications, tools for monitoring, controlling and reporting progress, and tools for monitoring, controlling
and reporting costs.    The Offeror shall describe the proposed on-site management team for the Offeror and all proposed Subcontractors.  The
Offeror’s proposal shall describe their plan for executing and managing contract procurements in accordance with the requirements in the Sample
Task Order.  The Offerors’ proposal shall describe the role of all proposed Subcontractors in the overall management and execution of tasking in
the Sample Task Order, to include specific areas of expertise and roles within IPTs.

Sub-Factor 2:  Proposed organizational structure and staffing.

The Offerors’ proposal will be evaluated on their proposed overall organizational and staffing structure, to include: (1) staffing levels that
align personnel by proposed task and proposed labor category, and (2) staffing information to support their proposed level of effort for the
tasking detailed in the Sample Task Order.  The Offeror’s organizational structure shall demonstrate clear alignment of Contractor management to
Government management, from Division Chief to Project Officer.  The Offeror shall include a summary table which provides the number of full time
equivalents (FTE) proposed for each labor category (breakout by labor category level is not required).  The Offerors’ will also be evaluated on
the qualifications, education, experience, and availability of proposed Key Personnel.  Resumes for all Key Personnel (personnel proposed in the
Program Manager I, II, III and IV labor categories), along with Letters of Commitment shall be submitted as part of the Offeror’s proposal.  The
Offerors’ proposed staffing structure shall specifically address the Offerors’ approach to staffing positions requiring TS and/or TS/SCI
clearances to support certain classified work at the OSC as described in the Sample Task Order PWS.  Offerors shall describe their approach to
recruiting and retaining technically qualified personnel, filling vacancies, and maintaining performance and quality of services during employee
absences.


Factor 3: Quality Control

Offerors shall describe their corporate Quality Control Program and how the Contractor will implement and evaluate on-site quality control
efforts for the Sample Task Order.  Quality control shall address the method of ensuring the quality of delivered IT services and capabilities,
continuous improvement initiatives, and the accuracy of cost, labor, and invoice projections.  The quality control program narrative shall also
include a discussion of the proposed methods for ensuring cost accountability through the use of efficient and effective solutions and
alternatives.

The Offerors will be evaluated on their proposed Quality Control Program.  The Program shall describe the Offerors’ ability to effectively
utilize time, material and staff hours in an equitable manner to achieve the greatest results with a minimum of time and effort.  The Program
shall likewise address the Offerors approach to continuous improvement, capturing lessons learned, and sharing these lessons learned across all
Integrated Product Teams (IPTs) assigned for tasking described in the Sample Task Order.  Offerors shall describe the proposed on-site quality
control process, including methods of monitoring performance to meet acceptable quality levels identified in the Sample Task Order, as well as
established Performance Metrics, and shall propose additional measurable requirements and corresponding performance metrics.  Offerors should
not submit a Quality Control Plan with their proposal.  A comprehensive Quality Control Plan supporting the Sample Task Order requirements will
be required after award of the initial Task Order.


Factor 4: Past Performance

The Offeror’s recent and relevant performance relative to work of similar in size, content, scope, and complexity to the requirements of the
Sample Task Order will be evaluated.  This evaluation will include Past Performance References for the Offeror and all first-tier
Subcontractors.  The evaluation will also include the past performance questionnaires submitted by the Offeror’s customers.  In accordance with
the FAR, the Government may supplement the information contained in the proposal with information obtained from other Government organizations
and personnel, commercial sources, public information sources, and if applicable, data gathered during the discussion phase of the evaluation.
Emphasis will be given to the extent of direct experience and quality of past performance on previous contracts that are recent and relevant to
the effort defined in the Sample Task Order.
The Government will evaluate past performance and assign one of the following adjectival ratings as defined below:

Superior:  The Offeror’s relevant past performance is of exceptional merit and highly pertinent to the requirements of the Sample Task Order.
All records indicate exemplary performance in a timely, efficient, and economical manner; very minor (if any) problems with no adverse effect on
overall contract performance.  Past performance clearly demonstrates the Offeror’s successful experience in performing contracts of similar size
and scope.  Based on the Offeror’s performance record, there is an extremely high level of confidence that the Offeror will successfully perform
the required effort, and be responsive to the requirements of the Sample Task Order.

Satisfactory:  The Offeror’s relevant past performance is of acceptable merit and pertinent to the requirements of the Sample Task Order.  All
records indicate effective performance and responsiveness to requirements; a few reportable problems, but with little adverse effect on overall
performance.  Past performance demonstrates Offeror’s experience in performing contracts of similar size and scope.  Based on the Offeror’s
performance record, there is a moderate level of confidence, that the Offeror will successfully perform the required effort and be responsive to
the requirements of the Sample Task Order.

Unsatisfactory:  The Offeror’s relevant past performance is not pertinent to the requirements of the Sample Task Order.  In one or more areas,
problems have adversely affected or impacted overall performance.  Past performance fails to demonstrate Offeror’s experience in performing
contracts of similar size and scope.  Based on the Offeror’s performance record, there is a low level of confidence that the Offeror will
successfully perform the required effort.

Neutral:  In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available,
the Offeror will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance {See FAR 15.305(a)(2)(ii) and (iv)}.


Factor 5: Cost/Price

Offerors are to submit price/cost proposals that provide complete pricing/costing as required to comply with the Schedule in Section B of the
solicitation and the instructions contained in Section L of the solicitation.  Offerors will be advised that pricing/costing should be:

      1)  Realistic for the work to be performed;
      2)  Reflect a clear understanding of the requirements;
      3)  Consistent with the various elements of the Offerors’ technical proposal.

Cost/Price will not be rated but will be evaluated with respect to completeness, reasonableness, and realism based on information submitted in
the Offeror’s cost proposal.  The proposed labor skill mix associated with the proposed labor rates will be analyzed to determine if the prices
proposed for the periods of performance are reasonable and realistic for the work described in the Sample Task Order.

   1) Realism


   The cost realism analysis is the process of independently reviewing and evaluating specific elements of the Offerors’ proposed cost estimate
   to determine whether the estimated proposed cost elements are realistic for the work to be performed.  The cost realism analysis includes
   examination of the following elements:


     a)  Direct Labor:  Do the direct labor costs indicate appropriate labor hours and appropriate labor mix for the proposed tasking?  Are
        proposed labor hours consistent with the RFP requirements?  Are the labor rates consistent with the proposed labor categories?

     b)  Other Direct Costs:  Did the Offerors include the Government provided ODC costs in their proposals?

     c)  Indirect Costs.  Are the proposed indirect costs (general and administrative expenses, etc.,) realistic with respect to the RFP
        requirements?

     d)  Overall Costs.  Are the overall cost figures realistic and do they indicate the ability to support the RFP requirements?

   2)  Reasonableness
   The cost proposals will be evaluated for the reasonableness of the overall cost/price and the individual cost elements.  This evaluation will
   determine if costs or elements of costs of the Offerors’ proposals are reasonableness given the nature of the work to be performed in the
   Sample Task Order, and the supporting explanations and information provided.  If subcontractors are used, each is required to submit the same
   level of pricing/costing detail as is required for the prime contractor.


   3)  Completeness


   The cost proposals will be evaluated as to completeness, including the adequacy of supporting data.  This includes the identification,
   estimation, and documentation of elements of direct and indirect costs.  The cost proposals must be prepared and supported in accordance with
   Section L, Attachment 4.

3 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JULY 1990)

Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best interests, the Government will evaluate offers
for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirements.  Evaluation of options will not
obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).
