



















STATEMENT OF WORK



Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V)



January 26, 2012

















Performed for the



Public Buildings Service (PBS)

Office of the PBS Chief Information Officer (CIO)

U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)







































1.0	INTRODUCTION



Organization



The General Services Administration (GSA), Public Buildings Service (PBS), Office of the PBS Chief Information Officer (PGA), Enterprise Quality Program (EQP), 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405.



Background



The Office of the PBS CIO’s mission is to strategically acquire information and technology designed to improve the quality, timeliness, and cost effectiveness of PBS service delivery to its customers.  The PBS CIO manages the design, development, implementation, and maintenance of all National PBS software applications, as well as the relationships between the PBS CIO’s office and PBS Central Office business lines, regional customers, and stakeholders.  



The Enterprise Quality Program (EQP) provides the foundation for continuously improving, managing, and evaluating the quality of PBS applications.  The EQP has developed processes and procedures based on the principles and practices of the Software Engineering Institutes (SEI) Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI).  The EQP also incorporates the concepts of the ISO 9000 quality management processes.  The EQP focuses on the areas of Quality Assurance, Configuration Management, Project Management and IV&V.  Support for the IV&V function will be the only focus of this SOW.  Support for the other EQP areas is performed under a separate contract and will not be included as part of this SOW. 



These IV&V services have been provided currently at a level of support consisting of 8 individuals in project management, quality assurance, and information systems and application areas of specialty.  The contractor is encouraged to be innovative and develop new approaches to increase efficiencies and reduce costs to the Government.





SCOPE



The contractor shall provide all labor, administration and management necessary to provide for the Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) evaluation and testing support services relative to PBS applications required by the GSA PBS Enterprise Quality Program (EQP).  This statement of work establishes the requirements for task order services to provide project management, technical, and system/application evaluation and testing support services specific to the IV&V project area of the EQP.  Details of these support requirements associated with this task are in the Task Description and Requirements section provided herein.



PBS currently supports approximately 60 applications that form the basis of the work for this task order.  







TASK DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS



Project Management Support



The contractor shall provide project management for the following functions:



Personnel/Staffing Plan



The contractor shall provide the personnel required to meet the specific technical, operational, and support requirements as detailed in this statement of work.  The contractor will maintain the staffing plan for this task and ensure compliance with all requirements of this statement of work as well as the explicit personnel requirements and coverage as specified in paragraph 3.6 Personnel Requirements.  The contractor shall provide the staffing plan updates including work schedule and contact information details to the COR immediately following changes in schedules of staff or contact information.



Project Plan Development and Schedules



The contractor shall provide input into master schedules and project plans as it applies to the specific activities and resources associated with IV&V support and tasking.  Project plans of work associated with this task will be developed and maintained, when required, to ensure compliance with program schedules and objectives.  Project plans created will be provided to the COR upon creation with updates provided at progress meetings held every two (2) weeks or at an interval requested by the Government.



Standard Operating Procedures Development and Maintenance



   The contractor shall coordinate and execute the development of standard operating 

procedures (SOP) sufficient for supporting applicable work activities described in this task order.  There are currently 15 SOP’s associated with the IV&V function at PBS with no immediate plans to add more.  This does not proclude the addition of more in the future.



  The contractor shall ensure all new and existing SOPs are updated, maintained and 

access is provided to the COR upon completion of creation or update.  This is a common occurrence as policy and procedures change.  



Quality Assurance



The contractor shall monitor the quality of all work performed as part of this task.  This includes both the content of the products produced (e.g. test cases) and the documents specified in section 4.  Deliverables section of this task order.  The contractor will  and ensure the quality, completeness, and timeliness of all deliverables and work performed.  The contractor shall ensure that all deliverables comply with all applicable EQP and PBS CIO standards, policies, and procedures. 





Status/Progress Meetings



The contractor shall hold status/progress meetings with the COR, when required, and provide a status report to review current issues, status of current activities, pending action items, upcoming activities, etc.  The contractor shall maintain minutes documenting the results of these meetings and provide them within three (3) workdays of the meeting.  Status meetings will occur bi-weekly or as needed as defined by the COR.



Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) Support



The contractor shall provide IV&V testing support for the PBS Enterprise Quality Program (EQP).  This support includes, but is not limited to, the following activities:



The contractor shall provide a monthly, written summary of all IV&V-related activities.



The contractor shall review all submitted applications deliverables, design and prepare test plans/scripts/cases, and perform testing of application systems based on these deliverables.  The contactor shall ensure the application functionality is in accordance requirements and that the requirements, as defined in the deliverables, have been fully satisfied.



The contractor shall optimize the utilization of IV&V contractor personnel across 

multiple projects and ensure effective, efficient, and thorough testing of PBS 

applications.



The contractor shall coordinate IV&V testing activities with other teams and individuals, both internal and external, (e.g. project managers, business lines, developers, IT security, EPQ, system integration) and provide input and/or feedback as required.



Approximate workload for software deliverables is 175 to 200 per year, these are referred to as TBRRs (Test Baseline Release Report).  These would require full testing of the new functionality in addtion to basic assurance that thee release does not break existing functionality.



The IV&V team also receives around 25 releases based on operating system and database (Oracle and SQL Server) upgrades that require modifications to the applications.  These would require a testing plan similar to the TBRR.



PBS performs approximately 250 security patching activities per year that do not require application code changes.  These will require a basic test of major functionality to validate that the patch does not introduce issues to the application or database.







The vendor should propose an SLA for the individual tasks listed in the previous bullets.  This should be based upon their staffing and operations strategy to support this task order.  The current cycle time for this work is approximately 2 calendar weeks per action.



The contractor shall prepare a written report (Product Evaluation Report) of all test results from the executed test cases. This report should document and include any discrepancies, inconsistencies, or deficiencies identified during the evaluation and testing of the delivered application and its associated documentation.  



The contractor shall provide recommendations regarding the acceptability of the delivered product.  These recommendations should be included in the written report documenting the test results.



The contractor shall post all reports and applicable testing documentation in the PBS configuration management workflow tool, Serena Business Manager.  The PBS CIO encourages all our industry partners to make recommendations for alternative technology solutions where they will provide greater benefit to the government.  The vendor may propose a suite of tools as part of their offering or they may propose that they continue to use the technology that is in place. 


The contractor shall coordinate with the Enterprise Service Center (ESC) and assist with maintaining the test environment, including scheduling installation of software for testing as required.  The contractor is not responsible for installing application software or for system administration of the servers, however, the contractor will coordinate as necessary with the developers and ESC personnel to ensure the installation and configuration settings are correct.



The contractor shall participate in Integrated Project Team (IPT) meetings with application stakeholders (e.g., project managers, business lines, developers, IT security, EQP, system integration), organizational meetings, or systems/software development, testing, and implementation meetings as required.  Generally these IPT meetings are one to two hours in length and there are typically around 3 per week.



The contractor shall participate, as required, in system/application reviews, requirements and design reviews, upgrade strategy sessions, program or process reviews, etc. and provide feedback and recommendations related to the IV&V function or associated activities. 



The contractor shall research, review, evaluate and provide recommendations regarding the implementation and use of tools for use in support of this task.  This shall include automated testing tools/suites to be used to improve the quality of PBS applications in support of IV&V testing efforts to improve test results and reduce testing cycle times.  Recommendations shall be provided to the COR for consideration.  The contractor will 





be required to use the tools should PBS elect to purchase and deploy them.  The contractor should provide expertise and insight into tools and propose solutions that improve productivity and efficiencies within the IV&V functional area.



The contractor shall comply with all applicable GSA and PBS standards, policies, processes, procedures, and guidance as it relates to performing IV&V tasking and including but not limited to the use of the GSA environment, applications, network, systems, and workstations. 



Personnel Requirements



The contractor shall provide personnel with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to complete all requirements described in this statement of work.  In addition, the contractor shall provide personnel that meet the following requirements:



The contractor shall provide personnel that are skilled in and able to effectively communicate by verbal and written means, including but not limited to the use of e-mail, word processing, and spreadsheet applications.  



The contractor shall provide personnel that are able to work well in a team environment and demonstrate an ability to work with individuals of all skill levels including members of other teams in effectively meeting the requirements of this statement of work.



The contractor shall provide personnel who have a working knowledge, experience, skills, and abilities for the following, where applicable, to successfully complete their duties, in support of the requirements of this statement of work.



Solaris 10

Microsoft Windows 2003 R2 Enterprise Edition or later

Oracle Application Server 10g 

Oracle Application Server 11g 

Oracle Database 11g or later

Oracle 10g Portal or later

Oracle Clients used in conjunction with the above

Microsoft SQL Server 2005 or later

Microsoft IIS 6 or later

Serena Business Manager 2009.R4 or later

MS Office 2007 (Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Access) or later

MS Project Professional 2003 or later

MS Internet Explorer (IE) 8.0 or later 

Hummingbird

PuTTY

WinSCP

Remote Desktop



Oracle Enterprise Manager

Cygwin

SQL+

ODBC



 HSPD12 Compliance:  All contract personnel must be HSPD12 cleared with a minimum MBI background clearance.  Personnel will NOT be allowed to work until they have completed the initial clearance portion of the HSPD12 background investigation.  All proposed personnel must initiate their clearance process and complete all required documentation within 5 business days of contract award.  



Key Personnel: Critical to performance of this contract are both the positions identified as key and the experience of the people in those positions.  The proposed key positions as well as proposed staff will show experience in the different skill sets necessary and the different functions to be performed. 



NOTE:  Key personnel may not be added nor removed from the task without approval 

from the Contracting Officer (CO) and/or COR. 



The Contractor shall provide resumes for all proposed staff.  The resume must show the 

position title the employee will be filling.



The Contractor will identify key contractor personnel.  Key Contractor personnel shall be 

maintained through completion of the order.  Proposed changes of key personnel shall be 

provided in writing to the COR for approval. This should describe the proposed action 

(including resignation if applicable), any corresponding transition plan, and assessment of 

the anticipated impact to the program efforts.



The Contractor shall ensure a stable workforce during the performance of this Task 

Order.  The Contractor shall designate at least three key personnel, one with managerial 

oversight responsibilities, and sufficient technical staff.  Key personnel shall remain 

responsible for each of the tasks until point of completion. 



The Contractor shall notify the GSA CO, in writing, of a proposed substitution of key 

personnel.  This notification shall be submitted at least twenty (20) calendar days in 

advance of the proposed substitution.  All proposed substitutes should have qualifications 

equal to, or greater than, the person to be replaced. 



The Government (GSA CO), in consultation with the COR will evaluate such requests 	and promptly notify the Contractor, in writing, of his/her approval or disapproval thereof.  	At the discretion of the COR, an interview with the proposed key individual may be 	required to verify that the proposed substitute has qualifications equal to, or greater than, 

the person to be replaced.  The COR will notify the Contractor ten (10) working days in 







advance of the proposed substitution date if the COR chooses to conduct an interview to 

review the qualifications of the proposed individual.



The GSA CO, in consultation with the COR, has the right to request removal of, or 

approval of, any contractor or subcontractor personnel assigned to accomplish this Task 

Order.  Any personnel replacement shall be performed within 30 calendar days from date 

of the vacancy.  





DELIVERBALES



Identification and Schedule



All deliverables shall be provided to the COR according to the scheduled identified for each in the table below.  An electronic media copy of each written deliverable shall be delivered in the applicable Microsoft Office format in conformance with approved GSA standards unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the COR.





Delivery Instructions



All deliverables shall be submitted to the Government COR.



Acceptance of Deliverables



The Government shall have five (5) working days to complete the review of each deliverable and accept or reject the deliverable by giving written notice to the contractor.  When the Government fails to complete the review within the review period, the deliverable will become acceptable, unless an extension of the review period is requested and mutually agreed upon.  The contractor shall have five (5) working days to correct the rejected deliverable and return it to the Government COR.  An extension of this correction period may be approved by the COR only under special circumstances advantageous to the Government.  The contractor shall be allowed one re-submission of deliverables.



Written documents delivered to the Government in draft and final form will be evaluated against the following acceptance criteria:



Standards.  The document conforms to the prescribed standard, where applicable.

Completeness.  The document covers all aspects of the subject matter.

Clarity.  The document is understandable by the intended user/recipient of the document.

Consistency.  The document is logically coherent both internally and in conjunction with other related documentation.

Accuracy.  The document is functionally and technically accurate.

Editorial Accuracy.  The document is free of typographical and grammatical errors, logically organized, and follows consistent formatting styles.



4.4	FAR Clauses for this Award



4.4.1 	The following FAR Clauses are made part of this task order in their entirety:



52.212-2   Evaluation—Commercial Items.  (Jan 1999) 



The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: 

Technical Approach and Understanding of the Requirements

Professional Staff

Past Performance

Corporate Capability 

Technical and past performance, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or 

price 

Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). 





A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the 

successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. 

(End of provision) 



52.217-8 Option to Extend Services. (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.

(End of clause) 



52.217-9   Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years. 

(End of clause) 



52.219-17   Section 8(a) Award. (DEC 1996)

(a) By execution of a contract, the Small Business Administration (SBA) agrees to the following: 

(1) To furnish the supplies or services set forth in the contract according to the specifications and the terms and conditions by subcontracting with the Offeror who has been determined an eligible concern pursuant to the provisions of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended (). 

(2) Except for novation agreements and advance payments, delegates to the General Services Administration the responsibility for administering the contract with complete authority to take any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract; 

provided, however that the contracting agency shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating the right of the subcontractor to proceed with further performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. 

(3) That payments to be made under the contract will be made directly to the subcontractor by the contracting activity. 





(4) To notify the General Services Administration Contracting Officer immediately upon notification by the subcontractor that the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility was based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. 

(5) That the subcontractor awarded a subcontract hereunder shall have the right of appeal from decisions of the cognizant Contracting Officer under the “Disputes” clause of the subcontract. 

(b) The offeror/subcontractor agrees and acknowledges that it will, for and on behalf of the SBA, fulfill and perform all of the requirements of the contract. 

(c) The offeror/subcontractor agrees that it will not subcontract the performance of any of the requirements of this subcontract to any lower tier subcontractor without the prior written approval of the SBA and the cognizant Contracting Officer of the General Services Administration. 

(End of clause)



4.4.2	FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  In addition, the full text of a clause accessed electronically at this address:







52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items. (NOV 2011)



52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors—Competitive Acquisition. (JAN 2004)



52.219-14 Limitations on Subcontracting. (NOV 2011)



52.243-1 Changes—Fixed-Price. Alternate 1 (APR 1984)



52.246-4 Inspection of Services—Fixed-Price. (AUG 1996)



52.249-2 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price). (MAY 2004)



52.249-8 Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service). (APR 1984)



52.217-4 Evaluation of Options Exercised at Time of Contract Award. (JUN 1988)















GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND POINTS OF CONTACT



Government Furnished Equipment (GFE)



The Government shall furnish the following:



Use of Government equipment necessary for contractor personnel to complete task requirements and deliverables.  Generally this equipment is limited to include laptop computer and smartphones or blackberry device for each member of the proposed staff.  Vendor will be expected to provide any additional hardware that they deem necessary to support the work.  All Government furnished property shall be issued upon receipt of the appropriate Government forms and property passes and shall be returned to the issuing office upon termination of the task(s) and/or the responsible contractor personnel.



The contractor shall provide an accounting of all GFE issued by the Government to the contractor.  This is to be performed quarterly and provide to the COR.



Licenses for all application software packages required to perform the IV&V services.



All available functional and technical documentation associated with the IV&V support services



Access to GSA networks and resources once security access has been successfully adjudicated.



Points of Contact



5.2.1	The GSA COR assigned to the EQP will also perform management of this task order and will have decision-making authority, including approval of changes, reports, documentation, and deliverables for all Government and contractor meetings, direction, and product deliverables.  The COR shall be capable of providing all technical assistance and clarification required during the performance of this tasking.



Program Manager/Contracting Officer Representative (COR)



TBD



All contract-specific issues shall be directed to the GSA Contracting Officer and Contract Specialist.













  The GSA Contracting Officer (CO) under this Order is:



TBD





5.2.3    For Contractual questions, please contact the Contract Specialist:



Ms. Doris D. Williams

Contract Specialist

Contracting & Facilities Division

PBS, Contracting and Facilities Division (PGE)

Email:  



U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)

Public Buildings Service (PBS)

Acquisition Services (PG)

1800 F Streets, NW - Room 4046

Washington, DC  20405



5.2.4   Changes and Revisions.

The Contracting Officer is the only authorized official to issue modifications to this Contract.  The GSA, PBS shall not be liable for any costs due to changes or revisions not originally negotiated under this contract.  Requests for changes or revisions received from the contractor shall be referred to the Contracting Officer and COR for review.  Upon approval, the Contracting Officer on a Standard Form 30 (SF30) will issue a formal modification to this Contract.  





PERIOD AND PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



Base Period



The base period for performance of this task order shall be from 1 May 2012 through 30 April 2013.



Option Years



This task order will include four one-year options periods as follows:



Option One:	1 May 2013 – 30 April 2014

Option Two:	1 May 2014 – 30 April 2015

Option Three:	1 May 2015 – 30 April 2016

Option Four:	1 May 2016 – 30 April 2017





Place of Performance



Contractor should provide optional pricing proposals for working in GSA furnished space or working at a contractor provided location.  If the second option is selected by the government the work on this task order will be performed predominately at the Contractor's IV&V facility which shall be located no more than 25 miles from the Government Offices.  



Occasional in-person attendance at meetings will be required at the Government offices located at 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405 and the PBS Enterprise Service Center (ESC) located at Building #3, 14426 Albemarle Point Place Suite 120 Chantilly, VA 20151.  This is considered local travel and is not reimburseable under this contract.



Work Schedule



The contractor shall provide and ensure support of this contract during the core hours of 7:00 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday, excluding Government holidays and other official Government closures. 



Travel



There is no travel beyond the Washington, DC metropolitan area expected with this contract.  Local travel will not be reimbursed.  Local travel is defined as performing support at any location within 50 miles of the GSA Central Office Building.  

 



TRANSITION REQUIREMENTS



The Contractor shall provide a phase-in/phase-out transition plan that, as a minimum, addresses:



Phase-In:  This includes the receipt of the applications, inventory of all outstanding maintenance requests/modifications/issues, personnel staff-up to full staff, hand-off with the incumbent Contractor, and service levels during phase-in, etc.  The offeror shall propose a transition timeline and process for any phase-in activities as required.



The Contractor shall use the time between contract award and contract start (30 calendar days) to prepare for and achieve fully operational status on the first day of required services.  To accomplish this level of operational readiness, the Contractor shall implement its proposed phase-in plan, which should be submitted as part of the technical proposal in response to the solicitation.  Site access shall be permitted during phase-in to the extent that it does not interfere with the operation of the Incumbent Contractor.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the COTR for site access permission.  The Phase-In Plan shall address no less than the following: 



Manpower requirements 

HSPD12 compliance

Personnel recruitment 

Personnel orientation 

Site familiarization 

Material equipment on-hand levels verification and validation 

Assumption of responsibility and accountability of Government furnished property 

Telephone services 

Initiation of a Point to Point network connection (if not located in PBS furnished space) between the contractor site and the GSA WLAN.

Contractor provided supplies and equipment 

Timelines 



Phase-Out:  The turnover of the application to the successor Contractor, inventory of all outstanding requests/modifications/issues, hand-off with the successor Contractor, and service levels during phase-out, etc. The offeror shall propose a transition timeline and process any phase-out activities required.



The Incumbent Contractor shall maintain full contract compliance during the period of time leading up to contract expiration or termination.  The Incumbent Contractor shall submit to the COR a Phase-Out Plan 30-60 calendar days before contract completion or termination.  The Phase-Out Plan shall address no less than the following: 



Procedures for retaining the staffing levels necessary to maintain required contract services through the day of contract expiration or termination. 

Procedures and responsibilities for performing physical inventory and reconciliation of Government Furnished Property. 

Procedures and responsibility for reconciling and certifying material and equipment on-hand levels and accuracy. 



The Incumbent Contractor shall coordinate its phase-out activities with the incoming Contractor to produce a smooth transition at the end of the contract period.  The Incumbent Contractor shall remove all Contractor-owned property from the Government spaces or facilities by close of business on the last day of the contract.





ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS



Personal Services



The Government has determined that use of a Small Business Set-Aside Open Market (Native American) procurement to satisfy this requirement is in the best interest of the government, economic and other factors considered.  This task order is not being used to procure personal services prohibited by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 37.104 titled "Personal services contract."









Section 508 Compliance



In accordance with Federal Register, 25 APR 01, FAC 97-27, Executive Order 12866, FAR Part 2.101, FAR Part 7.103, FAR Part 10.001, FAR Part 11.002, FAR Part 12.202, FAR Part 39.000 & 39.2, access to electronic and information technology (EIT) by individuals with disabilities must be compliant with the accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless it falls under one of the exceptions noted in FAR 39.204.  For further information see .  The terms of this contract do not include any development work but testing of section 508 compliance is a required function for the testing of applications and websites.



Security



In performance of this task order, the Contractor shall follow and as applicable in the performance of tasks, reference the applicable security laws and regulations.  Contractors who design, operate, test, maintain, and/or monitor GSA systems must have background investigations completed in accordance with GSA order 2100.1 – IT Security Policy and GSA Order CIO P 2181 – HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification and Credentialing Handbook requirements prior to being able to conduct business.   Applicants will not be reinvestigated if a prior favorable adjudication is on file with the Federal Protective Service (FPS) or GSA, there has been less than a one year break in service, and the position is identified at the same or lower risk level.



Contractors entering into an agreement for services to GSA and/or its Federal customers shall be contractually subject to all GSA and Federal IT Security standards, policies, and reporting requirements.  The contractor shall meet and comply with all GSA IT Security Policies and all applicable GSA and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidelines, and other Government-wide laws and regulations for protection and security of Information Technology.  This includes the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), the “Special Publications 800 series” guidelines published by NIST, and the requirements of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA).  



Protection of Information



The contractor shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of work under the contract.  In addition, the contractor shall protect all government data, equipment, etc by treating the information as sensitive.



Sensitive but unclassified information, data, and/or equipment will only be disclosed to authorized personnel as described in the task order.  The contractor shall ensure that appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards are established to ensure the security and confidentiality of this information, data, and/or equipment is properly protected.  When no longer required, this information, data, and/or equipment shall be returned to Government control; destroyed; or held until otherwise directed.  Items returned to the Government shall be hand carried or mailed to COR.  The contractor shall destroy unneeded items shall by burning, shredding or any other method that precludes the reconstruction of the material.



Privacy Act



Work on this project may require personnel to have access to Privacy Information.  Personnel shall adhere to the Privacy Act, Title 5 of the  code, Section 552a and applicable agency rules and regulations.



Confidentiality and Nondisclosure



The preliminary/draft and final deliverables and all associated working papers and other material deemed relevant by the agency that have been generated by the contractor in the performance of this task order, are the property of the U.S. Government and must be submitted to the COR at the conclusion of the task order.



All documents produced for this project are the property of the U.S. Government and cannot be reproduced, or retained by the contractor.  All appropriate project documentation will be given to the agency during, and at the end of this contract.  The contractor shall not release any information without the written consent of the Contracting Officer.  Any request for information relating to the Task Order that is presented to the contractor must be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval.  Personnel working on any of the described tasks may, at the Government’s request, be required to sign formal non-disclosure and/or conflict of interest agreements to guarantee the protection and integrity of Government information and documents.



GSA Electronic Invoicing



All invoicing will be done electronically.  Password and electronic invoice access may be obtained through GSA web site http://www.finance.gsa.gov. 



Billing and payment shall be accomplished in accordance with this clause. The contractor’s invoice will be for no less than one month.  The contractor may invoice only for the hours, travel, and/or unique services ordered by GSA and actually used in direct support of the client representative’s project.  A copy of the invoice will be submitted to the COR along with the monthly status report, at the same time that it is submitted for payment.  Failure to comply with the procedures outlined above may result in your payment being delayed.





     PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS AND EVALUATION CRITERIA



Offerors shall prepare and deliver technical and price proposals that will be evaluated in determining the “best value” proposal.   Proposals shall separately identify a schedule and cost for each task.  All proposals must be submitted via email to laurie.schimmel@gsa.gov. The price proposal must be a separate volume from the technical proposal.  Large email attachments can be delayed during regular business hours.  If this may be a problem, submit the statement of qualification as multiple emails with small attachments, or with enough time to clear the server delays.





	All Offerors are advised that all submissions and related materials become the property of the U.S. 	Government and will not be returned.  



9.1     Proposal Submission.



The Contractor must submit Questions NO LATER THAN 11:00AM, E.S.T., Wednesday, March 14, 2012.  The Contractor’s Proposal is due ON OR BEFORE 9:00AM, E.S.T., Thursday, April 5, 2012.



Offerors shall prepare and deliver technical and price proposals that will be evaluated in determining the “best value” proposal.   Proposals shall separately identify a schedule and cost for each task.  All proposals must be submitted via email to . The price proposal must be a separate volume from the technical proposal.  Large email attachments can be delayed during regular business hours.  If this may be a problem, submit the technical proposal as multiple emails with small attachments, or with enough time to clear the server delays.



Any discussions with anyone other than the Contracting Officer about this procurement will be cause for disqualification.



The government intends to award without discussions.  If required, discussion will be conducted in accordance with FAR Part 15.  Clarifications will be requested only if necessary. 



Any discussions with anyone other than the Contracting Officer/Contract Specialist about this procurement will be cause for disqualification.  Award may be made on original proposal submissions only. 



The Government intends to award without discussions with the offerors (except communications conducted for the purpose of clarification).  Each offer should be submitted in the most favorable terms to the Government.  Proposals will be evaluated in terms of quality, depth and relevance of information presented in response to this Statement of Work.  The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if it is later determined by the Contracting Office to be necessary.



The Offeror’s proposal(s) shall be submitted in two volumes as set forth below.  





Submissions shall be formatted as letter size paper (8.5 x 1l inches) using a Times New Roman, 12 point font.  



 Volume I:  Technical Proposal



Proposal Transmittal Letter



The Proposal Transmittal Letter shall formally transmit the complete proposal and include the following items:



1. 	Introduction – showing Corporate Capabilities and overall approach to the Statement of Work.

2. Teaming Arrangements/Subcontractors Offerors shall provide, if applicable, a summary describing the Teaming Arrangements/Subcontractors established for the purpose of responding to this Solicitation and a document defining the legal agreement that exists among the parties.  

3. 	DUNS Number

4. 	Federal Tax Identification Number

5. 	GSA Schedule Number

6. 	POC email, phone, and fax number



The Technical Proposal shall be composed of the following:



Technical Approach and Understanding of the Requirements – Offerors shall describe their technical approach and understanding of the requirements for supporting the Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) evaluation and testing support services of the Enterprise Quality Program in support of PBS application development and maintenance efforts.- Offerors shall: 



Demonstrate their understanding and experience in the area of system/software testing and evaluation, along with applying these concepts to supporting software application development and maintenance efforts in realizing quality systems in today’s dynamic web environments.  

Demonstrate an understanding and knowledge of Oracle, SQL, SBM, and other tools identified in the requirements in Solaris and Windows environments.

Demonstrate their understanding and conformance to the ISO 9000 quality management processes.

Demonstrate their experience in project management planning as it relates to evaluation and testing in support of software development and maintenance efforts.

Demonstrate innovative solutions that will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of IV&V operations.  

Establish SLA’s for test cyles. This includes development of test cases, functional and integration testing (as needed) and creation of the Product Evaluation Report.



Offerors will be evaluated to determine the soundness of the technical approach most suitable to this effort and the ability to deliver within the required timeframes.  The Technical Approach and Understanding of Requirements section is limited to 10 single-sided pages.



Professional Staff – The resumes submitted by the Offeror will be evaluated to assess the availability and qualifications of the proposed staff, their experience in similar projects and their capability to fully and professionally accomplish the objectives stated herein.  The Professional Staff section is limited to a total of 20 single-sided pages.  



Past Performance – Offerors shall submit three (3) past performance references with respect to projects undertaken within the past two (2) years that are similar in scope and size to the work described herein and any past GSA experience. The Past Performance section is limited to a total of 6 single-sided pages.



Corporate Capability – Offerors shall submit a Statement of Qualifications outlining their firm’s capabilities and experience with respect to the effort described herein.  The Corporate Capability section is limited to 5 single-sided pages.  



The Technical Proposal font must be Times New Roman, 12 point.  The total proposal shall not be greater than 41 single-sided, letter size (8.5 x 1l inches) pages.  The evaluation will not consider any information on pages exceeding the page limitation specified for each section as defined above. 



Factor 1 - Technical Approach and Understanding of the Requirements 



The offeror shall describe their technical approach for supporting the Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) evaluation and testing support services of the Enterprise Quality Program in support of PBS application development and maintenance efforts.  Offerors will be evaluated to determine the soundness of the technical approach most suitable to this effort and the ability to deliver within the required timeframes. Specific areas to be evaluated are knowledge in:



Technical understanding of the program requirements

Understanding and approach to IV&V testing and evaluation in support of integrated software development efforts

Understanding and knowledge of Oracle, SQL, SBM, and other tools in a Solaris and Windows environment

Understanding of ISO 9000 quality management processes

Understanding and approach regarding project management concepts and practices

Innovative propositions to improve quality and efficiency within the PBS IV&V program.



Factor 2 - Professional Staff 



The Offeror shall provide a concise staffing plan and resumes of all proposed personnel along with their proposed position identified on the resume.  All personnel proposed must work on this task order as proposed.  A signed letter of contingency for employment must be included for non-employees.  Resumes for all proposed staff must be included.



The resumes submitted by the Offeror will be evaluated to assess the availability and qualifications of the proposed staff, their experience in similar projects and their capability to fully and professionally accomplish the objectives stated herein.  The successful Offeror will maintain the level of expertise covered by the professional staff proposed for the duration of the contract.  If a staff member leaves the project, his/her replacement must have the same level of experience, education, etc.  Any replacement staff is subject to the review and acceptance of the COR.



Factor 3 - Past Performance



Past Performance information is intended to describe the Offeror’s most recent experience with projects of similar size, scope, and complexity and highlight any recognition received from Government or industry for quality, innovation, and cost savings.



Descriptions of projects similar in scope in size performed during the past two (2) years, including two (2) references, at a minimum, each of a cost of at least $1,000,000 per year.  At least 2 references shall be submitted for the prime offeror for contracts where they operated as the prime contractor.  At least 2 references shall be submitted for each partner/subcontractor of the offeror, at a minimum, each of a cost of at least $250,000 per year.



Sufficient information should be provided to allow the Government to contact the agencies/organizations served and assess the quality of the services provided.  In addition, references for all tasks for work currently performed within GSA, if any, must be included.  The reference must have a point of contact name, address, telephone number and e-mail address, and identify the size in dollars and staffing.  The references must clearly show the dollar value requirement has been met for the year.



The minimal acceptable information includes:



Name, Address, Telephone Number and Customer Point of Contact;

Type of Customer (i.e., Federal Government, State/Local Government, or Commercial/Private Organization).

Contract Number (if applicable).

Total value of the Contract at time of Contract Award and Total Value of the Contract at time of Completion (value to date if an active contract).  Provide a brief summary of the causes for any increase/decrease in contract value.





Required Delivery Schedule/Period of Performance and Actual Delivery Schedule/Period of Performance.

Description of services offered

Description of the type of system (i.e., financial management, or other type of system).

Description of the Offeror’s or subcontractor’s self evaluation of its performance on the contract, subcontract, order, or similar effort.



If the Offeror proposes to use subcontractors, the Offeror shall provide similar information on each subcontractor anticipated to perform at least 30 percent of the services including a description of the Offeror’s past experience and relationship with the proposed subcontractor.



The Offeror shall note that the Government may consider all information available on the Offeror’s experience and past performance.  This may include information that is in addition to that which is provided to the Offeror.  For example, the Government may also consider information available to it through Government records, industry databases (e.g., Dunn and Bradstreet), and other sources.  



Factor 4 - Corporate Capability



Offerors shall submit a narrative discussion of their Corporate Capability. The discussion should provide a thoughtful description and examples of their corporate abilities to include, but not limited to:

Required capabilities

Recent experience within the Federal and private sectors

Knowledge of issues, problems and interrelationships between them

Use of specialized tools and new technologies

Proactive and creative methodologies

Sharing lessons learned from similar engagements



Volume II:  Price



Offerors shall provide a detailed price proposal separately identifying prices for each task and unit price for each labor category.  Price proposals should be submitted on a firm-fixed price basis.



Price will be evaluated based upon realism, reasonableness, and consistency with the offeror’s proposed Technical Approach.  Offeror should specify as a separate line item costs for hosting the services at a vendor provided location.  The government will determine if this option is accepted or if the services will be supported in government provided space.



Best Value Evaluation Methodology 



Best value evaluation is, in and of itself, a subjective assessment by the Government of the proposed solution that provides the optimal results to the Government, price and other factors considered.  Subjectivity is inherent in the process and is the cornerstone of the source selection decision.  In an effort to provide insight to the Offerors as to the decision making process of the Government, the following information is provided:



Evaluation will be made on two factors – Technical and Price.  In the evaluation, technical is significantly more important than price.  While price is not as important as Technical, it does have significance to the Government.



In rating the technical proposals,



The four factors (Technical Approach and Understanding the Requirements, Past Performance, Professional Staff, and Corporate Capability) are in the order of importance.  

Technical Approach and Understanding the Requirements is more important than Past Performance, Professional Staff, and Corporate Capability.  Past Performance and Professional Staff are more important than Corporate Capability.

The Government will perform a price/technical trade-off analysis in accordance with the above methodology and select the offer that provides the best value.



Organizational Conflict Of Interest 



The Contractor’s attention is directed to FAR Subpart 9.5, Organizational Conflicts of Interest. 



Method Of Award 



Award will be based on the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered. 







.

Deliverable Description

Delivery Schedule

3.1.1

Staffing Plan

Upon changes or updates

3.1.2

Project Plans and Updates

As required and updates reported every two (2) weeks

3.1.3

Standard Operating Procedures and Updates

As required or updated

3.1.5

Status Report and Progress Meeting Minutes

As required

3.2.2

IV&V Activity Summary Report

Monthly

3.2.2

Test Plans/Cases

Upon initiation of the evaluation and testing of each application build

3.2.3

Product Evaluation Report (PER)

Upon completion of each application build evaluation and test

3.3.7

Research Tools and Provide Recommendations

Ongoing and as requested

5.1

Inventory of Government Furnished Equipment (GFE)

Annually

7.1

Phase-In Transition Plan

Draft due with proposal, final due 5 work days after award 

7.2

Phase-Out Transition Plan

Due 30-60 calendar days before contract completion or termination







VOLUME



TITLE

MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PAGES

NUMBER OF COPIES

TECHNICAL PROPOSAL

TECHNICAL PROPOSAL

8.5 x 11 inches

 Times New Roman Font size 12

Electronic

1

Technical Approach and Understanding of the Requirements

10

1

1

Professional Staff

20

1

1

Past Performance

6

1

1

Corporate Capability

5

1

PRICE PROPOSAL



PRICE PROPOSAL







2

Price

5

1