<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FRFQ.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FRFQ.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>
This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared IAW the format in FAR subpart 12.6 as supplemented with additional
information included in this notice.  This announcement constitutes the only solicitation.  Quotes are being requested, and a separate written
solicitation will not be issued.  The NAICS code for this acquisition is 541990 and size standard is $5 Million.

STATEMENT OF WORK - The OCC’s Global Banking and Financial Analysis (GBFA) Department of the Economics Division requires a responsible vendor to
provide web-based products to facilitate economic and financial analysis of the U.S. economy.  These products shall provide ready access to
data, forecasts, and analysis of the U.S. economy, including regional detail by state and Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), and by sector.
The vendor shall have proven analytical expertise in the areas covered by the products.  The vendor shall provide technical support to help GBFA
users retrieve and understand the data and forecasts provided.

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE-
January 22, 2011 through January 21, 2012 and four additional option years.

PRICING-  The vendor must include appropriate price information, including the cost of providing the service for one year, followed by four
option years.

PRODUCTS - The products offered shall include:

National and regional economic database: The database shall allow access for up to 15 users, and shall cover the economy at the national, state,
and MSA level. The database should include historical data and forecasts; where possible, historical data should go back to 1980 or earlier.

Data and forecasts shall have the following characteristics:


    • Consistency: Data must be compiled and forecasts must be applied using consistent methods for MSAs, States and U.S. economic series to
      permit sound analysis. Forecast models must integrate regional factors directly into their national forecasts in order to ensure
      consistency and accuracy.
    • Frequent updates:  Data shall be updated at least monthly; forecasts should be updated at least quarterly; regional data should cover all
      the states and MSAs.
    • Comprehensive coverage: Since national banks operate in both large and small metro areas, data and forecasts must include coverage of the
      MSAs in the U.S. to help identify and analyze local economic factors that affect the condition and performance of national banks.
    • Complementary regional and CRE analyses and reports. Data and forecasts should, if possible, complement the regional economic and
      commercial real estate analyses that the OCC currently receives and uses in various products.

Optional Products
GBFA would also like several related items which may be included in quotes responding to this solicitation.  Vendors are encouraged but not
required to propose a solution to the following items:

Implications of alternative macro paths: A way to analyze implications of alternative paths of the macro economy.  This shall be produced either
by GBFA staff using an interactive computerized model of the economy, or by the vendor’s staff generating alternative macro scenarios from its
own macro model.

State and regional analysis: Periodic analyses of the economy of each state, and of as many MSAs as possible.  These reports must be
downloadable, and must include history and forecasts for each region covered, and must be updated at least twice per year.

Housing market analysis: Residential lending is of great importance in the commercial banking system, therefore GBFA would like regular reports
and analyses on the state of the US residential real estate industry.

Web-based reports on economic data releases with commentary and analysis: Real-time access to economic data releases with analysis and
commentary on the releases.
                                                             [End Optional Products]

ELECTRONIC MEDIA SPECIFICATIONS - Data and model outputs should be suitable for use on OCC network and OCC microcomputers.  OCC microcomputers
use the Windows XP operating system, with the Microsoft Office 2003 suite of applications, and SAS 9.2.  Products must allow the user to import
model output into other software available to the user. The following is a partial list of data formats commonly encountered that the vendor
must support: Standard FFIEC format ASCII Fixed format ASCII Delimited format Spreadsheet formats (i.e., Lotus, Excel, etc.) SAS datasheet
format

SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:  To evaluate quotes submitted, vendors must submit the following:
1) Description of products included in quote.  This should include some indication of geographic coverage and length of typical data series, how
   long products have been commercially available; approximate number of users, both total and within the federal government.
2) Description of technical support to be provided, which must include telephone access to a user desk, access to analysts, quick response to
   questions and issues, and regular conferences or client meetings to discuss economic issues.
3) Explanation of how OCC users would access the product.
4) Samples of all products offered: for example, recent versions of state and local economic analysis, recent versions of housing analysis.
5) Temporary access from the date of quote submission until 1/17/2011 to databases, other on-line products, and economic model which are offered
   for purposes of evaluation
6) Documentation for all products offered
7) Past Performance- Provide all references that have requirements the same or similar to the OCC’s requirements who have used your products
   during the past two years.
8) THE VENDOR MUST PROVIDE COPIES OF ALL ITS LICENSING AGREEMENTS AND ANY ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
EVALUATION:  The OCC’s assessment of technical capability will focus on, but not be limited to:
     1) Examination of products for coverage, accuracy, timeliness, and consistency with existing OCC applications.
     2) Examination of product history, outside evaluation of products, and experience of other users of products.
     3) Tests of databases and other on-line products for ease of use and for compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act.  To be
        considered eligible for award, respondent must propose goods and/or services that meet the applicable provisions of the accessibility
        requirements.  Alternatively, quotes may propose goods or services that provide equivalent facilitation defined in 36 CFR 1194.5.  Such
        quotes will be considered to have met the accessibility requirements for the feature or component providing equivalent facilitation by
        ensuring and demonstrating equal or greater access to individuals with disabilities, as compared to the access available to individuals
        without disabilities has been met.  If none of the quotes meet all applicable standards of the accessibility requirements, those
        respondents whose products or services meet some of the applicable standards will be considered eligible for award and evaluated to
        determine which quote best meets the applicable standards.  Award will not be made to a respondent meeting all or some of the applicable
        Accessibility requirements if award would impose an undue burden upon the agency.
     4) Examination of product documentation for clarity and accuracy.
     5) Past Performance- Evaluation of past performance will be a subjective assessment based on OCC’s experience, if any, with the contractor;
        the experience of references submitted by the contractor; and a consideration of other relevant facts and circumstances that are
        obtained by OCC from any source.  It will not be based on absolute standards of acceptable performance.  Past performance is a scored
        evaluation factor.

INSTRUCTIONS:
If interested e-mail your quote to the contract specialist stated herein on letterhead stationery.  Quotations must be received no later than
5:00 PM EST, Thursday, December 9, 2010.  All quotes must be e-mailed to the point-of-contact below with the solicitation number (EconQ0001) and
vendors name listed in the subject block.  In addition, the vendors shall include any additional terms, price discounts for the items specified
above, a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all the terms, conditions, and provisions included in this RFQ and a copy of the
representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3.  The Government primary point-of-contact is Natalie Wallace, email -
Natalie.Wallace@occ.treas.gov.

52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE - (FEB 1998) - This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and
effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a
clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html?menu_id=40 and
http://www.ustreas.gov/offices/management/dcfo/procurement/

52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors Commercial Items - (JUNE 2008)
52.212-2 Evaluation Commercial Items - (JAN 1999) - (a) The Government intends to award a single contract but reserves the right to award
multiple contracts (one contract for the required products and one contract for the optional products) resulting from this solicitation to the
responsible Offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.
The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers in descending order of importance:       1. Technical Capability     2.  Past Performance
3.  Price, where Technical Capability and Past Performance, when combined, significantly outweigh Price.
FAR 52.212-3, Reps/Certs - (AUG 2009) - should be completed on-line at www.orca.bpn.gov.
52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions Commercial Items (JUNE 2010)
52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Commercial Items (OCT 2010)

The following additional clauses cited in FAR 52.212-5 are applicable to this specific acquisition: FAR 52.222-3, Convict Labor (JUN 2003), FAR
52.222-19, Child Labor-Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (JUL 2010), FAR 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999), FAR
52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007), FAR 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other
Eligible Veterans (SEP 2010), FAR 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010), FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic
Funds Transfer CCR (OCT 2003).

1052.242-8001 (OCC) POINT OF CONTACT (SEP 2008)

A. The Point of Contact for this requirement is responsible for inspection, and where required by this procurement action, acceptance of
deliverables, items, supplies, or services rendered. The POC does not have authority to take any action, either directly or indirectly, that
would change pricing, quantity, place of performance, delivery schedule, or any terms and conditions of this requirement or to direct the
contractor in the accomplishment of effort which goes beyond the scope of this requirement. If the contractor believes the POC has changed the
scope of this requirement, the contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer verbally or in writing. In the event the contractor
effects any change at the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the change will be considered to have been made without
authority and no adjustment will be made in the procurement action price to cover any increase in charge incurred as a result thereof.

B. The POC for this requirement is

Name: TBD at award
Address: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
250 E. Street, SW, Mail-stop
Washington, D.C. 20219

Telephone:
E-mail:

C. The Point of Contact will monitor the progress and quality of contractor performance. The duties of the POC are limited to those described in
this clause. The POC shall perform the following:

a. Review and approve invoices
b. Notify Contracting Officer to address any required changes to this order
(End of Clause)

1052.212-8001 (OCC) SUPPLEMENTAL INVOICING REQUIREMENTS - Commercial Item (OCT 2008)

In addition to the invoicing requirements specified in clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items, of this contract, the
following special invoicing requirements also apply to the submission of invoices.

(a)(i) The contractor shall submit invoices in a format that replicates the line item (CLIN) and subline item (subCLIN) structure of the
contract or, in the case of an order against a contract, the CLIN and subCLIN structure of the order. Each invoice shall provide, by CLIN and
subCLIN, the line item number, description, quantity being invoiced, unit of measure, unit price, and current invoiced amount. Each invoice
shall sequence CLINs and subCLINs in the same order in which they appear in the contract or order and shall be totaled at the bottom of the
invoice.

(ii) If the contract allows for the submission of partial or periodic invoices, the contractor shall include an additional column, titled
"Cumulative Amount," to the right of the "Current Invoiced Amount" column. In the "Cumulative Amount" column, the contractor shall enter the
total amount that has been billed for each contract line item and subline item through the end of the current invoice period.

(iii) The contractor shall submit invoices that conform to the requirements listed in subparagraphs (a)(i) and (ii) above. The contractor shall
not deviate from this format without the expressed, written permission of the contracting officer. To further clarify the guidance provided in
these paragraphs, a sample, generic invoice accompanies this clause.

(b) The contractor shall identify the point of contact (POC) or contracting officer's technical representative (COTR) for this contract on the
face sheet of all invoices submitted under the contract. The POC or COTR is identified in (b)(ii) below. The contractor shall precede the POC or
COTR's name with either a "POC" or "COTR" label, as appropriate (e.g., "POC: John E. Doe").

(c) The contractor shall submit an original and two copies of each invoice. The contractor shall submit the original and all copies of the
invoice at the same time. Submission shall be as follows:

i) The contractor shall submit original hardcopy or electronic copy of invoice(s) to the designated billing office. Hardcopy invoices shall be
sent to:

Address: Comptroller of the Currency
Accounts Payable, MS FM 2
250 E Street, SW
Washington, DC 20219-0001
Telephone: (202) 874-5140

Electronic invoices shall be sent to OMAPVendorInvoice@occ.treas.gov

(ii) The contractor shall submit a copy of the invoice (hardcopy or electronic) to the point of contact (POC) or contracting officer's technical
representative (COTR), as designated in the contract. The POC or COTR for this contract is...

Name: TBA on contract award
Address:
Telephone:

Electronic copy invoices shall be sent to _________Fill In Name______________________.

(iii) The contractor shall submit a copy of the invoice (hardcopy or electronic) to the contracting officer or contract specialist. The
contracting officer or contract specialist is...

Name: Natalie Wallace
Title: Contract Specialist
Address: 250 E Street SW, FM-4
Washington, DC 20219
Telephone: 202-874-4542

Electronic copy of invoices shall be sent to Natalie.Wallace@occ.treas.gov.

(d) The OCC may deem any invoice that does not fully comply with the invoicing requirements specified in 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions
-- Commercial Items, and this clause, as an improper invoice and return the invoice to the contractor.
(e) Contractors shall select one method to submit invoices, either hardcopy or electronically. Once a method is selected, Contractors must
submit a request to the Contracting Officer to change the manner of submitting invoices for payment. The contract will be modified to effect the
change.
(End of clause)

1052.239-70(OCC) REQUIREMENT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS

All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this contract must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194,
unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. (36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is
viewable at
http://www.section508.gov . The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this contract:

[ ] 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems. .
[XX] 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.
[ ] 1194.23 Telecommunications products.
[ ] 1194.24 Video and multimedia products.
[ ] 1194.25 Self contained, closed products.
[ ] 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.
[XX] 1194.31 Functional performance criteria
[XX] 1194.41 information, documentation, and support

The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device,
but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in
the future.


