
                                                           National Library of Medicine

                                                             Public Services Division

                                                                Statement of Work

                                             Consumer health and medical news source for MedlinePlus


1.  Background Information

To assist consumers in obtaining the information they need to make informed decisions about health and wellness, the National Library of
Medicine has developed MedlinePlus (http://medlineplus.gov), an easily understandable Web resource for the public.  MedlinePlus (including all
of the NLM MedlinePlus branded Web sites) contains links to information from authoritative health web sites, especially those from the National
Institutes of Health.  Currently, MedlinePlus receives over 60 million page views per month.


2.  Purpose and Objectives of the Procurement

It is the intent of the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to procure health and medical news stories, written for a lay-audience, to be
included in MedlinePlus.  “MedlinePlus” means all NLM MedlinePlus branded Web sites, including but not limited to MedlinePlus, MedlinePlus en
español, MedlinePlus Connect, MedlinePlus Mobile and MedlinePlus Mobile en español.  Stories must be in a format for viewing with a web browser,
but NLM will also consider additional news content in video or other formats.  NLM will host the content on its own servers.


 3. Mandatory requirements:

   a) Vendor must allow NLM to host the health news stories, and retain them for public search & display for an agreed upon time (minimum of 90
      days).
   b) News stories must cover health and medical stories of broad (national or international) interest targeted at a U.S. audience and should
      include: health and wellness, biomedical research results, new drug information and new disease treatments.  NLM will not display or
      consider in-scope stories focusing on the business aspects of medicine/healthcare or stories written solely for health professionals.
   c) Stories must include: headline, byline, body, and published-on date.
   d) Vendors must provide at least five English and five Spanish in-scope health news stories daily, Monday through Friday.
   e) Spanish stories must be in culturally neutral Spanish, not written or narrated in the style or vocabulary of a particular Spanish
      nationality.
   f) Vendor must not require NLM to display all news stories received.
   g) The provider must have editorial policies and procedures in place to insure the accuracy and integrity of each story. Please provide these
      policies and procedures in response to RFP.
   h) Delivery of content must be reliable and consistently available at least every weekday.
   i) Currency of information:  Information must be current.  Published dates and times included as a standard field are required.  The vendor
      must also provide NLM with the ability to identify the final version of each news article and to associate that final version with all
      previous versions, so NLM may display only the final version.
   j) Attribution to outside resources provided: Information should include names and affiliations for sources quoted, and publication date and
      issue if source is a journal article.
   k) No commercial content: Information must be free of commercial endorsements or advertisements.
   l) Unobtrusive co-branding: Co-branding must not be intrusive.  Please describe your co-branding request in the proposal.
   m) Format of content: Awardees must deliver content to NLM via XML.  NLM prefers to retrieve data via FTP.
   n) Accessibility of content:  All electronic content must meet Section 508 Guidelines.  See the more specific requirements below regarding
      Section 508 compliance.
   o) Vendor must allow NLM to index the content provided for our search engine.
   p) Vendor must allow NLM to have linked headlines to the content appear on any MedlinePlus-branded page and in the search results for the NLM
      main web site.  Linked headlines may also appear on the NLM homepage (http://www.nlm.nih.gov).
   q) Vendor must allow NLM to send out linked headlines to individual subscribers by email, via RSS feeds or through links in social media
      applications such as twitter.
   r) Vendor must allow NLM to implement links to social networking sites and other online sharing forums from the individual content pages to
      allow MedlinePlus users to share content of interest within their social networks.  NLM will implement the links through a custom solution
      or through a third party such as AddThis.com.  Vendor must allow MedlinePlus users to generate an ‘email to a friend’ containing the linked
      headline, to generate a print version of the article on the fly, or to otherwise share for personal use.  Vendor must allow NLM to create
      this formatting.
   s) Awardees will be required to provide NLM with technical support and advance access to their files for the NLM transition team to work on
      necessary programming.


Preferred in addition to requirements:

   t) For citations of journal articles in the PubMed database (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed), the data provided by the vendor includes a
      mechanism for linking from individual news stories to the specific PubMed record/abstract.
   u) Equivalent news content provided in English and Spanish.
        1) English stories translated or trans-created in Spanish should be delivered within 2 business days of the equivalent English story.
        2) There should be a mechanism for toggling between the English and Spanish versions of a news story when it is available in both
           languages.
   v) Images are included with some stories to provide added value (indicate what percentage of stories include images).
   w) Story file data includes metadata such as Medical Subject Heading unique identifiers or UMLS Metathesaurus Content Unique Identifiers.
   x) Video or other multimedia health news stories meant for consumers are available (indicate the average frequency and volume as well as
      format for this news).
   y) Indicate other special features which are available.

4.  Specific requirements
a. Section 508 Compliance:

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that Federal agencies' electronic and information technology is accessible to people with
disabilities.  The news files received must be Section 508 compliant. Specifically, the end product must be conformant with all applicable
provisions, including:

1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications
1194.24 Video and multimedia products (if applicable to the product offering)
1194.31 Functional performance criteria.
1194.41 Information, documentation, and support.

These provisions can be found at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/standards.htm


Section 508 Program Need

Requirements for accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the
following program need: "Consumer health and medical news source for MedlinePlus."


Section 508 Product Requirements

Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must describe
how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in
the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Functional performance criteria from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart C have been determined to apply to this acquisition. Solicitation respondents must
describe how their proposed Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those functional performance criteria
identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).

Information, documentation, and support requirements from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart D have been determined to apply to this acquisition.
Solicitation respondents must describe how the information, documentation, and support proposed for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT)
deliverables meet at least the information, documentation, and support requirements identified as applicable in the attached Government
Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT).


Section 508 Evaluation Factors

Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the
requirements for Section 508.  Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508
requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation) will be eligible for any additional merit consideration.


Section 508 Acceptance Criteria

The Consumer health and medical news delivered as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified
Section 508 requirements for accessibility.  The news delivered must include a completed GPAT, a sample of which is included as a part of this
solicitation.


   Other Technical

     1) Vendor must allow for NLM servers to host the content/data for display on the NLM Web sites.
     2) Vendor must deliver files to NLM via the Internet or make them available via FTP retrieval by NLM a minimum of once per business day.
     3) Vendor’s transfer method must be compatible with NLM’s high-security environment.
     4) Story files must be delivered in XML (Extensible Mark-up Language) such that allows NLM to transfer the data into our online system.
     5) Stories include unique identifier and/or “final” version designation to identify duplicates and updated/final stories.
     6) Inclusion of metadata such as Medical Subject Heading unique identifiers or UMLS Metathesaurus Content Unique Identifiers is desirable.
     7) NLM must be able to index content for its search engine.
     8) Vendor must allow NLM to provide users with a printer-friendly version of the individual content pages.  The content vendor does not
        need to provide this formatting, NLM will create the formatting.
     9) Vendor must allow NLM to provide users with the ability to email the individual content pages to other users. The vendor does not need
        to provide the service.  NLM will implement this.
    10)  Vendor must allow NLM to implement links to social networking sites and other online sharing forums from the individual content pages
        to allow MedlinePlus users to easily share content of interest within their social networks.  NLM will implement the links through a
        custom solution or through a third party such as AddThis.com.

   Content

     1) Stories must be of substantial content.  The majority of stories should be a minimum of 150+ words in length.  Please indicate the
        average reading level for your stories.
     2) Titles must be accurate in spelling and grammar and also brief yet descriptive.
     3) Vendor must allow NLM to edit titles for length and/or clarity (spelling out acronyms, removing extraneous words, such as “study” at the
        end of a headline, etc.).

   Additional Performance Issues (not already addressed in Part 3 above):

     1) NLM will forward to the vendor any feedback received from users regarding content.
     2) When NLM staff identify major issues, related to content or technical requirements, they will communicate the issue with the vendor.
        The vendor must describe their procedure and turn-around time for responding to the issues.
     3) In case of major breaking health news, such as in the event of a major change in standard medical practice or a major disease outbreak,
        NLM may update the news provided by the vendor more frequently than usual.

5.  Other required information

a) The response to this solicitation must include the cost for licensing this product. The cost should be an annual flat fee for providing the
   content to users of any MedlinePlus branded site via the Web, mobile Web, email, RSS feeds, Twitter, headline alerts, or other electronic
   communication methods that may emerge.  Provide information showing the factors that determine this fee.
b) Respondents should provide a representative list of other organizations that license the content, along with accompanying web site URLs, for
   NLM to review.  Provide at least three references that we may contact. Also requested is a copy of your policy (or other evidence of
   commitment) of your customer service policy.
c) Respondents should include any documentation related to editorial policies and procedures that insure the accuracy and integrity of each
   story.
d) License agreement governing use of content on Web sites, email, RSS and other electronic distribution/media must be included in response to
   this solicitation.
e) Sample technical documents, including DTD or schema specifying layout of stories, and sample XML marked-up stories for English and Spanish
   should be included in response to this solicitation.
f) Include a description and/or example of the desired co-branding.
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F11-003-ci-syn-sol-GPAT.mht%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2F11-003-ci-syn-sol-GPAT.mht%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>