

                                                         GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
                                                           FEDERAL ACQUISITION SERVICE
                                                       GREATER SOUTHWEST REGION (Region 7)


                                                            PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT
                                           Veterans Administration (VA) Financial Services Center (FSC)
                                                                    Austin, TX


TASK:     FCE36011                                                                      DATE:  26 July 2010
TYPE:  Fixed Price Per Volume
TASK DESCRIPTION:  Clearinghouse Services

                 PERFORMANCE WORK REQUIREMENTS (PWS)


This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Subpart 12.6, the test program in
FAR Subpart 13.5, and FAR Part 15, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.

1.0  BACKGROUND


The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Financial Services Center (FSC) is a franchise fund site operated under the Government Management Reform
Act, P.L. 103-356.  Consequently, the FSC receives no federally appropriated funding and is required to market FSC services to customers.  As a
franchise fund organization, the FSC provides financial services to the VA as well as Other Government Agencies (OGAs).

One of the FSC product offerings is receipt and processing of medical claims.  The FSC requires the services of an electronic clearinghouse to
support this product line and is seeking the services described below.

2.  SCOPE OF WORK

The Contractor shall provide the necessary services to accomplish all of the requirements stated herein.  The vendor, at a minimum, shall offer
services to accept and transmit electronic medical claims received from healthcare providers to the FSC in an 837 file format.  The vendor, at a
minimum, shall offer services to receive TIFF images from the FSC and convert those images into 837 compliant transactions and transmit the
transactions to the FSC.

2.1  Places of Performance:  The contractor shall perform the services of this task order at their own locations.  The FSC does not expect the
contractor to be needed on-site to perform the services described in this PWS.  Travel is not anticipated for this requirement.  The Government
will not reimburse any travel expenses incurred by the contractor.

2.  Contractor Personnel:  The contractor shall not use any offshore resources (personnel, hardware, software, etc) in support of the services
   being provided under this contract.  Data used on this contract shall not be transmitted to or stored at an offshore location.  For the
   purposes of this contract, offshore is defined as being any location outside the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico.

2.3  Security and Privacy Requirements:  Contractor personnel providing services under the contract shall be required to successfully pass
various background investigations before commencing performance on the contract (see Section 6.0)  The Contractor shall comply with all Federal,
VA and FSC security regulations and policies.  The FSC Security and Privacy requirements are provided in Section 6.0.

2.4  The contractor shall ensure that only technically qualified and knowledgeable personnel suited for the individual tasks shall perform under
this contract.  In addition, personnel assigned by the contractor to the performance of work under this contract shall be acceptable to the
Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) in terms of personal and professional conduct.

3.0  TASKS AND DELIVERABLES

3.1  Task 1: Post Award Orientation Conference (PAOC) – Develop Project Plan

3.1.1 Participate in the PAOC via conference call.

3.1.2 Identify Tasks, Subtasks, Timelines, and the Delivery Schedule for project plan.

3.1.3 Meet with FSC Team/Counterparts/Data Contacts.

3.1.4 Prepare a Project Plan that identifies Tasks, Subtasks, Timelines, and the Delivery Schedule for all tasks to accomplish the project
      outcomes of this PWS.

3.1.5 Deliver Project Plan.

3.2   Deliverable 1:   PAOC

3.2.1 Quality Standards Specific to Deliverable 1:  Deliverable 1 shall meet the following minimum quality standards:

3.2.1.1     The PAOC meeting is held on schedule.
3.2.1.2     Comments and concerns raised by the FSC are addressed.
3.2.1.3     Tasks, Subtasks, Timelines and the delivery schedule are determined.

3.3   Deliverable 2:   Project Plan

3.3.1 Due Date for Deliverable 2:  Within 10 workdays from the date of issuance of notice to proceed.

3.3.2 Quality Standards Specific to Deliverable 2:  Deliverable 2 shall meet the following minimum quality standards:

3.3.2.1     The plan is delivered on schedule.
3.3.2.2     Comments and concerns raised by the FSC are addressed in the final plan.
3.3.2.3     Timelines are complete and sound.
3.3.2.4     Data are clear and logical and the plan is one that is fully executable.
3.3.2.5     Project management principles are applied effectively.
3.3.2.6     Documentation is logical and concise.
3.3.2.7     The document is presented and written in a professional business-like manner.
3.3.2.8     The document is grammatically correct and error free.

3.4   Task 2:  Provide medical claims clearinghouse services.  At a minimum, this shall include, but not be limited to, the following:


   1. Receive and document receipt date of electronic medical claims from providers.

   2. Validate the electronic medical claims data using FSC provided required information (a.k.a. edits).

   3. Create Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliant 837 transaction files based on the validated electronic
      medical claims data.


   4. Receive encrypted TIFF images from the FSC and convert those TIFF images into HIPAA compliant 837 transaction files within 48 hours of
      receipt of the TIFF images.
      Electronically transmit the encrypted HIPAA compliant 837 transaction files to the FSC.

   5. The Healthcare Clearinghouse (HCCH) shall be able to transmit and receive health care transactions in the currently adopted HIPAA X12
      4010A1 standard version or proprietary formats acceptable to FSC. The HCCH shall support at a minimum the following transactions and
      relevant code sets as applicable:



    • HCFA OCR Claims
                  • HCFA UB Claims
                  • 837 Health Care Claims (Institutional and Professional, Dental)
                  • 835 Health Care Claim Payment/Advice




   6. The HCCH shall send and receive electronic acknowledgements for X12 Interchange Envelopes and Standard Conformance for HIPAA X12
      transactions to and from FSC or its submitters.


   7. At the time of the award the HCCH shall implement the following transactions with FSC:


3.4.7.1     837 Professional, Dental, Institutional using batch transactions

   8. The HCCH shall assist the FSC in implementing the following transactions within 6 months of the award:


    • 835 Healthcare payment advice


   9. HCCH shall assist FSC in implementing additional transaction types as part of the migration to 5010 or by December 2012 should 5010 be
      delayed. The additional transactions FSC  will considered for implementation include:


3.4.10.3    Acknowledgements 999, 824, 277CA
3.4.10.4    COB payer to payer claims


  10. The HCCH shall provide and implement plans to migrate to future adopted versions of paper institutional and non-institutional health care
      claims before the deadline imposed by industry.  The transition process shall allow ample time for testing of the new versions to assure
      compliance with the National Uniform Billing Committee (NUBC), National Uniform Claim Committee (NUCC) and NCPDP mandated requirements.

3.5   Deliverable 3:   Provide medical claims clearinghouse services.  At a minimum, this shall include each item shown in Task 2.  Also, the
services provided that relate to Internet access must be compliant with the requirements as defined in Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29
U.S.C. 794d).  Section 508 requires that Federal agencies' electronic and information technology is accessible to people with disabilities.
Detailed information about Section 508 can be found at http://www.section508.gov.

   1. Due Date for Deliverable 3:  Start date of award.

   2. Quality Standards Specific to Deliverable 3:  Deliverable 3 shall meet the following minimum quality standards:

3.5.2.1     The TIFF images must be converted into HIPAA 837 transaction files no later than 48 hours or less of receipt 100% of the time.
3.5.2.2     All medical claims data must be 95% accurate for 98% of the time.
3.5.2.3     Comments and concerns raised by the Government are addressed.
3.5.2.4     All written documentation shall be provided in an electronic format that can be read and edited in any Microsoft Office product
        (e.g. MS Word format, MS Excel, MS Visio, etc.), and shall be made available to the FSC IT support staff.

3.6   Task 3:  Written Monthly Activity Reports and Interim Reports.  Provide to the FSC written monthly activity reports regarding medical
claims processing.  No specific format has been established however, at a minimum, this report should include the following:


   1. TIFF claims:

3.6.1.1     The date the TIFF claim was received.
3.6.1.2     The date the TIFF claim was processed.
3.6.1.3     The date the 837 was transmitted to the FSC.
3.6.1.4     The number of pages in the claim.
3.6.1.5     The number of pages rejected from the claim.

   2. Electronic medical claims:

3.6.2.1     The date the electronic claim was received.
3.6.2.2     The date when the electronic claim was validated.
3.6.2.3     The date the electronic claim was transmitted to the FSC.


   3. Daily  837 Claims sent  (Institutional, Professional, Dental) by batch, Payer ID and source

   4. Weekly  837 Claims sent  (Institutional, Professional, Dental) by batch, Payer ID and source

   5. Monthly Summary 837 Claims reports by Payer ID and source (Institutional, Professional, Dental)

   6.  Daily 835 Health Care Payment / Advice Transactions received by payer ID and 835 picked up  by provider/submitter

   7. Weekly 835 Health Care Payment / Advice Transactions received by payer ID and 835 picked up by provider/submitter

   8. Monthly Summary 835 Health Care Payment / Advice Transactions received by payer ID and 835 picked up by provider/submitter

   9. Monthly Summary Paper Claim Report (for network submitters sending paper to payer by payer ID




  10. Daily report of Optical Character Recognition (OCR) files submitted and received by the HCCH with count by type of image (professional,
      institutional, dental), single or multi page, claims rejected, date received, date 837 file is returned and claim count


3.7   Deliverable 4 – Written Monthly Activity Report

   1. Due Date for Deliverable 4:  Due by 12:00PM Central Time 3 workdays after the last day of the month.

   2. Quality Standards Specific to Deliverable 4:  Deliverable 4 shall meet the following minimum quality standards:

3.7.2.1     The monthly activity reports are delivered on schedule.
3.7.2.2     The monthly activity reports are grammatically correct and error free.
3.7.2.3     The monthly activity reports are written in a non-technical manner so that any layperson can understand it.
3.7.2.4     The monthly activity reports are in a format that can be read on any Microsoft Windows Office product (e.g. MS Word format,
        MS Excel, MS Visio, etc.)

3.8   Deliverable 5 – Written Interim Reports


   1. Due Date for Deliverable 5:  Due within 2 workdays after request

   2. Quality Standards Specific to Deliverable 5:  Deliverable 5 shall meet the following minimum quality standards:

3.8.2.1     The written interim reports are delivered on schedule.
3.8.2.2     The written interim reports are grammatically correct and error free.
3.8.2.3     The written interim reports are written in a non-technical manner so that any layperson can understand it.
3.8.2.4     The written interim reports are in a format that can be read on any Microsoft Windows Office product (e.g. MS Word format, MS Excel,
        MS Visio, etc.)

4.0  DELIVERABLES

4.1  Delivery:  All information acquired and documents developed during this contract belong to the Department of Veterans Affairs.  Unless
otherwise directed, deliverables shall be submitted to the COTR or their designee.

           2. Review of Deliverables:  The FSC will complete their review of deliverables within seven (7) calendar-days from date of receipt.
              The contractor shall have five (5) workdays to deliver the final deliverable from date of receipt of VA’s comments.

           3. Data Rights:  The contractor has the responsibility to obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to
              fulfill the contractor’s obligations to the Government (including licensed software) under this contract.  If a subcontractor
              refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the contractor must promptly bring such refusal to the attention of
              the Contracting Officer and not proceed with subcontract award without further authorization.

           4. Rights in Government Furnished Data and Materials:  The Government shall retain all rights and privileges, including those of
              patent and copy, to all Government furnished data.  The contractor shall neither retain nor reproduce for private or commercial
              use any data or other materials furnished under this contract.  The contractor agrees not to assert any rights at common law or in
              equity or establish any claim to statutory copyright in such data.  These rights are not exclusive and are in addition to any
              other rights and remedies to which the Government is otherwise entitled elsewhere in this contract.

           5. Technical Data, Specifications and Document Updates:  The contractor shall provide Technical Data, Specifications and Document
              Updates as project requirements dictate.  The COTR will review all deliverables for accuracy, completeness, and suitability and
              submit required changes to the contractor.  The contractor shall have five working days to correct and re-submit the rejected
              deliverable (this time may be extended with concurrence of the COTR.)  Only the COTR has the authority to inspect, accept, or
              reject deliverables:

5.  INSPECTION and ACCEPTANCE


     1. The COTR with the assistance of the GSA Project Manager shall be responsible for inspecting and accepting services in accordance with
        the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) for the Task Order and Federal Acquisition Regulation clauses 52.246-02 and 52.246-03.

     2. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) – The Government will evaluate contractor performance and deliverables against the following
        criteria to determine final acceptance and completion of the task assignments:

|Item     |Critical Performance    |PWS         |Monitoring                 |Performance Standards        |                                                         |
|         |Objectives              |Section     |Method                     |                             |Incentive/Disincentive                                   |
|1        |Develop Project Plan    |3.0         |On time delivery of        |Monitor for timely, compliant|Incentive - Full payment for meeting the requirement.    |
|         |                        |            |Project Plan               |and accurate submission.     |                                                         |
|         |                        |            |                           |                             |Disincentive – If requirement is not met consistently,   |
|         |                        |            |                           |                             |then the vendor task performance rating may be effected. |
|2        |Provide medical claims  |3.0         |Monitoring of actual       |System meets required        |Incentive - Full payment for meeting the requirement.    |
|         |clearinghouse services  |            |performance against        |performance levels 99% of    |                                                         |
|         |                        |            |expected performance.      |time.                        |Disincentive – If requirement is not met consistently,   |
|         |                        |            |                           |                             |then the vendor task performance rating may be effected. |
|3        |Provide written monthly |3.0         |On time delivery of reports|Monitory for timely,         |Incentive - Full payment for meeting the requirement.    |
|         |activity reports and    |            |                           |compliant accurate submission|                                                         |
|         |interim reports         |            |                           |                             |Disincentive – If requirement is not met consistently,   |
|         |                        |            |                           |                             |then the vendor task performance rating may be effected. |


6. OTHER INFORMATION AND REQUIREMENTS

1. VA INFORMATION SECURITY:

   1. The Contractor and Contractor personnel shall be subject to the same Federal laws, regulations, standards and VA policies as VA, and VA
      personnel, regarding information and information system security.  Contractor activities and personnel must follow all of the Directives
      established by VA to include protection of computers and other mobile devices used to process, store or transmit sensitive information.

   2. Access to VA Information and VA Information Systems: Contractor shall request access to VA information and VA information systems for
      employees, subcontractors and affiliates only to the extent necessary: (1) to perform the services specified in the contract; (2) to
      perform necessary maintenance functions for electronic storage or transmission media necessary for performance of the contract, and (3) for
      individuals who first satisfy the same conditions, requirements and restrictions that comparable VA employees must meet in order to have
      access to the same type of VA information.  These restrictions include the same level of investigative requirements, as applicable, with
      the following exceptions:


           • Contract personnel not accessing VA information resources such as personnel hired to maintain the facility grounds, construction
             contracts, utility system contractors, etc.


           • Contract personnel with limited and intermittent access to equipment connected to facility networks where no Protected Health
             Information (PHI) is available, including contractors who install, maintain and repair networked building equipment such as fire
             alarm; heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment; elevator control systems, etc.


    1. All contractors and subcontractors working with sensitive VA information are subject to the same investigative requirements as those of
       regular VA appointees or employees who have access to the same type of information.  The level of background security investigation will
       be in accordance with VA Directive 0710 and Handbook 0710, available at http://www1.va.gov/vapubs/ .

    2. The position risk and sensitivity level(s) for this effort have been designated at as Low Risk.

    3. The contractor shall satisfy all requirements for appropriate security eligibility in dealing with access to sensitive information and
       information systems belonging to or being used on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs.  To satisfy the requirements of the
       Department of Veterans Affairs a Minimum Background Investigation (MBI) or National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI), based on position
       level shall be conducted prior to performing work under this contract.  Appropriate Background Investigation (BI) forms will be provided
       upon contract (or task order) award, and are to be completed and returned to the FSC Personal Identification Verification (PIV) Sponsor
       for processing and submission to VA Security Investigation Center (SIC).  The PIV process currently takes approximately 3-4 weeks for
       completion.  All BI forms shall be submitted to the FSC PIV Sponsor within 5 days after contract award.   Contractors will be notified by
       Office of Security and Law Enforcement (OSL&E) when the BI has been completed and adjudicated.

    4. All costs associated with obtaining clearances for contractor provided personnel will be the responsibility of the contractor.  Further,
       the contractor will be responsible for the actions of all individuals provided to work for VA under this contract.  In the event that
       damages arise from work performed by contractor provided personnel, under the auspices of this contract, the contractor will be
       responsible for all resources necessary to remedy the incident.

    5. All contractor personnel and subcontractor personnel requiring access to VA information and VA information system shall complete the
       following training before being granted access to VA networks:
           a. Sign and acknowledge understanding of, and responsibilities for compliance with, the National Rules of Behavior relating to access
              to VA information systems;
           b. Successfully complete VA Cyber Security Awareness training, and annual refresher training, as required;
           c. Successfully complete VA General Privacy training, and annual refresher training, as required;
           d. Successfully complete any additional cyber security or privacy training as VA personnel with equivalent information system access,
              as required.


       The contractor shall provide to the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative a copy of the training certificates for each
       applicable employee within one week of the initiation of the contract, prior to systems access and badge issuance, and annually
       thereafter, as required.  The courses must be taken at the FSC facility or another VA location as directed by the COTR.  Failure to
       complete this mandatory training within the required timeframe will be grounds for suspension or termination of all physical and
       electronic access privileges and removal from work on the contract until such time as the training is completed.  Removal from work on
       the contract due to failure to complete mandatory training shall result in a reduction in the overall contract cost and is not sufficient
       reason to warrant an extension in the delivery order time or cost.

    6. Comply with the same standards, conditions and restrictions placed on VA personnel for the handling of VA sensitive data, to include the
       standards, conditions, and restrictions contained in VA Directive and Handbook 6500.

   3. Physical Security Requirements.

    1. General:

     1. The FSC is a high-security government facility.  For purposes of this specification section, “FSC,” “premises”, “site,” “Center,” and
        “facility” shall mean the FSC building and surrounding property, including parking areas.

     2. All contractor and subcontractor personnel must read and abide by the security requirements in place at this facility.  Failure to
        comply with these security requirements may result in revocation of physical and/or electronic access privileges and/or termination of
        the contract for default.

     3. Failure to complete the work in a timely manner, or by any required completion date, caused by delays in requesting security clearances,
        or due to revocation of access privileges resulting solely from the actions of the contractor or their personnel, is not sufficient
        reason to warrant an extension in contract time or cost.

    2. Access Privileges.

     1. Access into the FSC is only allowed through the main entrance.  All items will be manually inspected (this includes opening and
        inspecting all packages) prior to being allowed entry.

     2. Access Cards/Badges.  After award of the contract, all contractor employees requiring long-term access (more frequent than once per
        month) to the FSC or the project site may be required to obtain an FSC-issued access badge.  Each contractor or subcontractor employee
        shall conspicuously display, on his/her person, a government-provided identification badge.  The identification badge record and
        associated data will be kept in a government-maintained computer database for security purposes.

     3. Security Clearances.  All contractor personnel who will routinely work on-site at the FSC or other FSC-controlled government
        installations shall satisfy all security requirements prior to starting work under this contract.  These requirements necessitate that
        the contractor submit certain information in order to initiate the government’s background investigation process, and for certain
        positions, may require that the contractor employee actually obtain the VA security clearance before they may begin work at the FSC.
        The contractor shall pre-screen all personnel requiring physical or electronic access to ensure they are U.S. citizens and are able to
        read, write, speak, and understand the English language (in addition to any other languages they may speak).

     4. Physical Access.  Each person requiring unescorted physical access to the property will be required to submit personal identifying
        information (full legal name (first, middle, and last), date of birth, state-issued driver’s license or identification card number and
        the state that issued it, and name as it appears on the identification card.  This information will be used to perform a criminal
        history check.  Visitors who are not subjected to the criminal history check must be escorted at all times by someone who has been
        issued a permanent FSC ID badge.  The cost of conducting the criminal history check is the responsibility of the FSC.  The cost, if any,
        of arranging for an escort is the responsibility of the contractor.  The contractor shall pre-screen all personnel requiring physical
        access to the property to ensure they are legally able to work in the U.S. and are not currently sought by law enforcement authorities.
        Adjudication of information discovered during or after the criminal history check is solely the responsibility of the Chief, Security
        Services.  Being admitted entry into the FSC based on a finding of no criminal history does not convey any security clearance.  The
        Chief, Security Services may revoke physical access privileges at any time if criminal history is discovered, or if the person commits
        security incidents warranting such revocation.  NOTE: Personnel doing work on the FSC site under contract to GSA will also be required
        to submit additional documentation and be fingerprinted, and be determined by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal
        Protective Service (FPS) to be suitable to work on this property.


     5. Both Physical and Computer System Access.  Persons requiring both physical and computer system access are subject to all of the
        requirements listed above.

   4. Contractor System Security:  The contractor shall ensure adequate LAN/internet, data, information and system security in accordance with VA
      policy, standard operating procedures and Federal standards, laws and regulations.  The contractor’s firewall and web server shall meet or
      exceed the Government minimum requirements for security.  VA Directives are available on the VA Directives website at
      http://vaww1.va.gov/vapubs/. The contractor shall administer and maintain firewall and web server implementations that meet or exceed the
      Government minimum requirements for security. All Government data shall be protected behind an approved firewall.  The Contractor shall
      adhere to applicable federal laws, standards and VA policies and procedures governing information security, especially those that pertain
      to certification and accreditation.

   5. Information System Design and Development: Information systems designed or developed for or on behalf of VA at non-VA facilities shall
      comply with all Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), NIST, and related VA security control requirements for Federal
      information systems.  This includes system security categorization level designations in accordance with FIPS 199, and implementation of
      all baseline security controls commensurate with the FIPS 199 system security categorization (reference Appendix D of VA Handbook 6500, VA
      Information Security Program).

      The security controls must be designed, developed and implemented in accordance with the provisions of VA security system development life
      cycle as outlined in VA 6500 Handbook.

      The Contractor will be required to design, develop, or operate a system of records on individuals, to accomplish an agency function subject
      to the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, December 31, 1974 (5 U.S.C.552a) and applicable agency regulations. Violation of the Act may
      involve the imposition of criminal penalties.

      The Contractor agrees to:
           a. Comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (the Act) and the agency rules and regulations issued under the Act in the design,
              development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function when the contract specifically
              identifies the systems of records and the design, development or operation work the contractor is to perform.
           b. Include the Privacy Act notification contained in this contract in every solicitation and resulting subcontract and in every
              subcontract awarded without a solicitation, when the work statement in the proposed subcontract requires the redesign,
              development, or operation of a system of records on individuals that is subject to the Act; and
           c. Include this clause, including this subparagraph (3), in all subcontracts awarded under this contract, which requires the design,
              development, or operation of such a system of records.

      In the event of violations of the Act, a civil action may be brought against the agency involved when the violation concerns the design,
      development, or operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, and criminal penalties may be imposed
      upon the officers or employees of the agency when the violation concerns the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish
      an agency function. For purposes of the Act, when the contract is for the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an
      agency function, the Contractor is considered to be an employee of the agency.

           a. “Operation of a system of records,” as used in this clause, means performance of any of the activities associated with maintaining
              the system of records, including the collection, use, and dissemination of records.


           b.  “Record,” as used in this clause, means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained
              by an agency, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment
              history and that contains the person’s name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the
              individual, such as a fingerprint or voiceprint or a photograph.


           c. “System of records on individuals,” as used in this clause, means a group of any records under the control of any agency from
              which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying
              particular assigned to the individual.


   6. Information System Hosting, Operation, Maintenance or Use:  For information systems which are hosted, operated, maintained or used on
      behalf of VA at non-VA facilities, contractors are fully responsible and accountable for ensuring compliance with all FISMA, NIST, FIPS,
      and VA security policies and procedures.  The contractor security control procedures must be identical, not equivalent, to those procedures
      used to secure VA systems.  A privacy impact assessment (PIA) must also be included and approved by VA Privacy Service prior to operational
      approval.  All external Internet connections involving VA information must be reviewed and approved by VA prior to implementation.

      The security controls must be in place prior to hosting, operation, maintenance, or use of the information system, or systems by or on
      behalf of VA.  Security controls for collecting, processing, transmitting, and storing of personally identifiable information (PII) must be
      in place prior to operating.


      Outsourcing (contractor facility/contractor equipment/contractor staff) of systems or network operations, telecommunications services, or
      other managed services requires certification and accreditation of the contractor’s systems prior to operation of the systems.  Government
      owned (government facility/government equipment), contractor operated systems require a system interconnection agreement for all systems
      connected to VA networks.


      The contractor must adhere to all FISMA, FIPS and NIST legislation and standards related to conduct of an annual security controls
      assessment and review and updates to the Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA).  Any deficiencies noted during this assessment must be provided
      to the VA Contracting Officer and the Information Security Officer (ISO) for entry into VA’s Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M)
      management process. The contractor will use VA’s POA&M process to document planned remedial actions to address any deficiencies in
      information security policies, procedures, and practices, and the completion of those activities.  Security deficiencies must be corrected
      within the timeframes approved by the Government.  Contractor procedures will be subject to periodic, unannounced assessments by VA
      officials.  The physical security aspects associated with contractor activities will also be subject to such assessments.

      All electronic storage media used on non-VA leased or owned IT equipment that is used to store, process, or access VA sensitive information
      must have all VA sensitive information removed, cleared, sanitized, or destroyed in accordance with VA policies and procedures upon the
      earlier of: (1) completion or termination of the contract or (2) disposal or return of the IT equipment by the contractor or any person
      acting on behalf of the contractor.

   7. VA Information Custodial requirements:  As a consequence of this agreement, the contractor may become a temporary custodian of VA data on
      behalf of VA.  Information made available to the Contractor by VA for the performance or administration of this contract shall be used only
      for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer.  This clause expressly
      limits the Contractor’s rights to use data as described in Rights in Data – General, FAR 52.227-14(d)(1).

      Except for uses and disclosures of VA information authorized by this contract for performance of the contract, the contractor may use and
      disclose VA information only in two other situations: (i) in response to a qualifying order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or (ii)
      with VA’s prior written approval.  The contractor will refer all requests for, demands for production of, or inquiries about, VA
      information and information systems to the VA Contracting Officer for response.

      The contractor shall not release information protected by either 38 USC 5705 or 7332 in response to a court order, and shall immediately
      refer such court orders to the VA Contracting Officer for response

      VA information will not be co-mingled with any other data on the contractor’s or subcontractors’ information systems or media storage
      systems in order to ensure VA requirements related to media sanitization can be met.  VA reserves the right to conduct on-site inspection
      of information destruction or media sanitization procedures to ensure they are in compliance with VA policy requirements.
           a.  The VA data associated with this contract has been categorized from VA sensitive to VA critical.
           b.  As custodian on behalf of VA, the contractor shall store, transport and transmit VA data, or any derivatives thereof, utilizing a
              FIPS 140-2 validated encryption module.
           c.  Prior to contract termination, contractor will not destroy VA information received from VA or gathered or created by Contractor
              in the course of performing this contract without prior written approval by the VA Contracting Officer.
           c.  At contract termination or upon demand, the contractor shall return all VA data, and derivatives thereof, and shall purge or
              destroy all electronic, magnetic, optical or hardcopy media in accordance with VA media sanitization procedures.
           d.  Contractor will receive, gather, store, back up, maintain, use, disclose and dispose of VA information only in compliance with
              the terms of this contract and applicable federal and VA information confidentiality and security laws, regulations and policies.
              Applicable federal information security regulations include all Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and Special
              Publications (SP) issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  If federal or VA information
              confidentiality and security laws, regulations and policies become applicable to the VA information or information systems after
              execution of the contract, or if NIST issues or updates applicable FIPS after execution of this contract, the parties agree to
              negotiate in good faith to implement the information confidentiality and security laws, regulations and policies, including FIPS
              or SP, in this contract.
           e.  The Contractor shall not make copies of VA information except as necessary to perform this agreement or to preserve electronic
              information stored on contractor electronic storage media for restoration in case any electronic equipment or data used by the
              contractor needs to be restored to an operating state.
           f.  A determination by VA that the contractor has violated any of the information confidentiality and security provisions of this
              contract shall be sufficient grounds for VA to terminate the contract for default.


   8. Security Incident Investigation: The term “security incident” means an event that has, or could have, resulted in loss or damage to VA
      assets, or sensitive information, or an action that breaches VA security procedures.  The contractor shall immediately (within 1 hour)
      notify the COTR and simultaneously, the VA Network Security Operations Center (vansoc@va.gov) and the designated ISO/Privacy Officer for
      the contract of any known or suspected security/privacy incident, or any unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information, including that
      contained in system(s) to which the contractor has access.

      To the extent known by the contractor, the contractor’s notice to VA will identify the information involved, the circumstances surrounding
      the incident (including to whom, how, when, and where VA information/assets were placed at risk or compromised), and any other information
      that the contractor considers relevant.


      Contractor will simultaneously report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement entities of jurisdiction in instances of theft or
      break-in.  The contractor, its employees, and its subcontractors and their employees will cooperate with VA and any law enforcement
      authority responsible for the investigation and prosecution of any possible criminal law violation(s) associated with any incident.  The
      contractor will cooperate with VA in any civil litigation to recover VA information, to obtain monetary or other compensation from a third
      party for damages arising from any incident, or to obtain injunctive relief against any third party arising from, or related to, the
      incident.


      To the extent practicable, contractor shall mitigate any harmful effects on individuals whose VA information was accessed or disclosed in a
      security incident.  In the event of a data breach with respect to any sensitive personal information processed or maintained by the
      contractor or subcontractor under the contract, the contractor is responsible for liquidated damages to be paid to VA and remediation to
      potentially harmed individuals (such as offering and paying for credit monitoring).

   9. Security Controls Compliance Testing: On a periodic basis, VA, including the VA Office of Inspector General, reserves the right to evaluate
      any or all of the security controls implemented by the contractor under the clauses contained within the contract.  With 10 working-day’s
      notice, at the request of the Government, the contractor will fully cooperate and assist in a Government-sponsored security controls
      assessment at each location wherein VA information is processed or stored, or information systems are developed, operated, maintained, or
      used on behalf of VA, including those initiated by the Office of Inspector General.    The Government may conduct a security control
      assessment on shorter notice (to include unannounced assessments) determined by VA in the event of a security incident or at any other
      time.

  10. Data Security and Privacy:

    1. Confidentiality and Disclosure

    2. The Contracting Officer will be the sole authorized official to release verbally or in writing, any data, draft deliverables, final
       deliverables, or any other written or printed materials pertaining to this task order.  The contractor shall release no information.

    3. Press releases, marketing material or any other printed or electronic documentation related to this project, shall not be publicized
       without the written approval of the Contracting Officer.

    4. While in the custody of the contractor, all information shall be protected from unauthorized disclosure, depending upon the content of
       information provided to the contractor, the key staff shall be required to sign non-disclosure statements to endure the confidentiality
       of Government information.

2. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973:

   a. NOTICE OF THE FEDERAL ACCESSIBILITY LAW AFFECTING ALL ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENTS (SECTION 508)


      On August 7, 1998, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 was amended to require that when Federal departments or agencies develop,
      procure, maintain, or use Electronic and Information Technology, that they shall ensure it allows Federal employees with disabilities to
      have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of information and data by other Federal
      employees.


      Section 508 required the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) to publish standards setting forth a
      definition of electronic and information technology and the technical and functional criteria for such technology to comply with Section
      508. These standards have been developed were published with an effective date of December 21, 2000. Federal departments and agencies must
      develop all Electronic and Information Technology requirements to comply with the standards found in 36 CFR 1194.


   b. SECTION 508 – ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (EIT) STANDARDS

      The Section 508 standards established by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) are incorporated
      into, and made part of all VA contracts, solicitations and purchase orders developed to procure Electronic and Information
      Technology (EIT). These standards are found in their entirety at http://www.section508.gov . A printed copy of the standards will be
      supplied upon request.  The contractor must comply with the technical standards at 36 CFR 1194.21-24, 26, 31, and 41 in performing this
      contract.


6.3   FAR Clause 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sept 2007)
(a) The contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland
Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24, and Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201.
(b) The contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a
Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system.
Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) was issued to implement the policy of the United States to enhance security, increase
Government efficiency, reduce identity fraud, and protect personal privacy by establishing a mandatory, Government-wide standard for secure and
reliable forms of identification issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors (including contractor employees).  Under this
directive, the heads of executive departments and agencies are required to implement programs to ensure that identification issued by their
departments and agencies to Federal employees and contractors meets the Standard.  This policy can be found at the following website:

http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2004/08/20040827-8.html .

In performance of services under this task, contractor shall insure all its personnel who require physical access to Federally-controlled
facilities and access to Federally-controlled information systems have been issued identification in compliance with HSPD-12 policy.  In their
quotes, contractors shall confirm they will comply with the government client’s identification procedure that is implementing HSPD-12 policy.
The Security/Identification point of contact for the client agency that is responsible for implementing their HSPD-12 compliant policy is:

Name:  JoAnne Rountree
Phone:  (512)460-5757

6.4   Government Points of Contact:

6.4.1 Project Manager:

      Carol England
      GSA/FAS
      100 N.E. Loop 410, Ste 1400
      San Antonio, TX  78216
      Phone:  210-341-8323
      Fax:  210-341-8304
      Email:  carol.england@gsa.gov

6.4.2 Contracting Officer:


      Rose Dominguez
      GSA/FAS
      100 N.E. Loop 410, Ste 1400
      San Antonio, TX  78216
      Phone:  210-341-8359
      Fax:  210-341-8304
      Email:  rose.dominguez@gsa.gov


5.  Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative:

6.5.1 The Contracting Officer will designate a COTR to assist in the administration and oversight of the contract.  The COTR’s authority will be
       delegated in writing by the Contracting Officer and is limited to those duties designated.  The authority is not re-delegable.  If the
       assigned COTR is unavailable, all duties revert back to the Contracting Officer.  The COTR responsibilities will include the following:

            • Act as the sole Government technical focal point and liaison with the contractor.
            • Monitor performance to determine if the services/deliverables meet Government requirements.

            • Provide technical reviews of contract proposals and submittals.

            • Authorize release of Government materials or actions.

            • Coordinate activities between the Government and contractor.

            • Oversee and account for Government furnished material or facilities.

            • Review contractor invoices/payment vouchers and recommend approval.

            • Attend meetings or conferences to determine status.

            • Provide technical direction as long as it does not change price, quantity, or schedule.

            • Review and recommend for approval to the Contracting Officer for contractor travel requests.

            • Advise the Contracting Officer on all technical matters related to performance


   2. The contractor shall notify the COTR if problems arise adversely affecting the performance of any effort under this contract.

   3. The COTR is:


      JoAnne Rountree
      Department of Veterans Affairs
      Financial Services Center
      1615 Woodward St.
      Austin, Texas 78772
      (512) 460-5757  (phone)
      Joanne.rountree@va.gov (email)

7.   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE AND CLAUSES

     1. The performance period is one year from the date of award for the Base Year with an additional four (4) option years.  This solicitation
        requests quotes for work to be performed during the Period of Performance, base and all options.  Submit pricing for the base year and
        all option years, setting out each year separately.

7.2   The following FAR clauses regarding Options (Inserted in their entirety) apply:

7.2.1 FAR 52.217-5 Evaluation of Options - Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best
      interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the
      basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

7.2.2 FAR 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services - The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the
      rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the
      Secretary of Labor. This option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not
      exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the contractor given at least 60 days prior to the
      expiration of the contract period.


7.2.3 FAR 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract

      (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the contractor given at any time prior to the expiration of
      the current period of performance; provided that the Government gives the contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend
      least 60 days prior to the expiration of the current period of performance.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an
      extension.


      (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.


      (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any option years under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years.

7.2.4  This solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through    Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-08.


7.2.5  Solicitation provision at FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items (JAN 2005) is hereby incorporated by reference.

7.2.6  A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for
      acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified
      expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless
      a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

7.2.7  Offerors shall include a completed copy of the provision at 52.2 12-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items (MAR
      2005) with their offer.

7.2.8  Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items (SEP 2005), is hereby incorporated by reference.

      a)  The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph, that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in
      this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

                    [Contracting Officer shall check as appropriate.]

                  __X _(1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Jul 1995), with Alternate I (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 253g
                  and 10 U.S.C. 2402).
                  _____(2) 52.2 19-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999)(15 U.S.C. 657a).
                  _____(3) 52.2 19-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jul 2005) (if the offeror elects
                  to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C.    657a).
                  _____(4) (i) 52.2 19-5, Very Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003)(Pub. L. 103-403, section 304, Small Business Reauthorization
                  and Amendments Act of 1994).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Mar 1999) of 52.219-5.
                        _____(iii) Alternate II (June 2003) of 52.219-5.
                  _____(5) (i) 52.2 19-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
                        _____(iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
                  _____(6) (i) 52.2 19-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003)(15 U.S.C. 644).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
                        _____(iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
                  _____(7) 52.2 19-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
                  _____(8) (i) 52.2 19-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2005)(15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Oct2001) of 52.219-9.
                        _____(iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
                  ______(9) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996)(15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
                  __ ___(10) (i) 52.2 19-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Sep 2005)(10 U.S.C.
                  2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
                  __ ___(ll)52.2 19-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Oct 1999)(Pub. L.
                  103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
                  __ ___(12) 52.2 19-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000)(Pub. L. 103-3 55,
                  section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
                  _____(13) 52.2 19-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004).
                  _____(14) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003)(E.O. 11755).
                  __X__(15) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (June 2004) (E.O. 13126).
                  _ __  (16) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
                  _  _ _ (17) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Apr 2002)(E.O. 11246).
                  _____ (18) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans
                  (Dec 2001)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
                  _____ (19) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998)(29 U.S.C. 793).
                  _____ (20) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans
                  (Dec 2001)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
                  ______(21) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
                  __X__ (22) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Products (Aug 2000)(42 U.S.C.
                  6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Aug 2000) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)).
                  _____(23) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (June 2003)(41 U.S.C. l0a-l0d).
                  _____(24) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act —Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act (Jan 2005)(41 U.S.C. lOa-lOd, 19 U.S.C.
                  3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
                        _____(iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
                  __X_(25) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Jan 2005)(19 U.S.C. 2501, etseq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
                  __X__(26) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Mar 2005) (E.o.s, proclamations, and statutes administered by
                  the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
                  _____(27) 52.225-15, Sanctioned European Union Country End Products (Feb 2000)(E.O. 12849).
                  _____(28) 52.225-16, Sanctioned European Union Country Services (Feb 2000)(E.O. 12849).
                  _____(29) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002)(41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
                  _____(30) 52.232.30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
                  _____(31) 52.232-33, Payment by Elecironic Funds Transfer— Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003)(3 1 U.S.C. 3332).
                  _____(32) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999)(31 U.S.C.
                  3332).
                  __X _(33) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 1999)(31 U.S.C. 3332).
                  _____(34) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996)(5 U.S.C. 552a).
                  _____(35) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S-Flag Commercial Vessels (Apr 2003)(46 U.S.C. 1241 and 10 U.S.C.
                  2631).
                        _____(ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.

      (b)  The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting
      Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to
      acquisitions of commercial items:

                      [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]

                  _____(1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, as Amended (Jul 2005)(41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                  _____(2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989)(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                  _____(3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts)
                  (May 1989)(29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                  _____(4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Feb 2002)(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41
                  U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                  _____(5) 52.222-47, SCA Minimum Wages and Fringe Benefits Applicable to Successor Contract Pursuant to Predecessor Contractor
                  Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) (May 1989)(41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

      (c)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
      awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.2 15-2,
      Audit and Records --Negotiation.

           (1)    The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to
           and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
           (2)    The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for
           examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR
           Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially
           terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination
           settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or
           relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
           (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type
           and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in
           the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.

      (d) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b),  (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
      flow down any FAR clause, other than those in paragraphs (i) through (vi) of this paragraph in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless
      otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-

           (i) 52.2 19-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004)(15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
           subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $500,000 ($1,000,000 for
           construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting
           opportunities.
           (ii) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Apr 2002)(E.O. 11246).
           (iii) 52.222-3 5, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Dec
           2001)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
           (iv) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998)(29 U.S.C. 793).
           (v) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
           (vi) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, as Amended (Jul
           2005), flow down required for all subcontracts subject to the
           Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)


8. PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

8.1   Proposals shall be submitted via email on or before the date and time set out in the FedBizOps RFQ notice.  Proposals shall be emailed to
carol.england@gsa.gov.  All companies must be registered in IT Solutions Shop (ITSS) under open market conditions.  To register in ITSS, open
http://it-solutions.gsa.gov/ and click on contractor registration under the “Tell Me About Registration” drop down menu.  Project award and
contract administration will be conducted in ITSS.

8.2   Contractor’s questions shall be submitted to the GSA PM via e-mail within 3 business days of the issue date of the solicitation.

8.3   52.212-2   Evaluation—Commercial Items.

                                                      EVALUATION—COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible contractor whose offer conforming to the solicitation
will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:

Technical Factors:
1.  Technical Approach
2.  Past Experience

Non-Technical Factor:
Price

8.4   Technical approach is significantly more important than past experience and technical approach and past experience, when combined, are
      more important than price.  Non-Price technical factors will be evaluated first, then price.  GSA will award the task to the vendor that
      provides the best value to the Government.  Note that as non price factors become closer in system capabilities, price could become the
      determining factor for award.

8.5   The proposal shall include the contractor’s DUNS, Tax ID, and NAICS Code.

8.6   PROMPT PAYMENT TERMS:  The contractor shall provide their prompt payment discount terms in their proposal.

8.7   OTHER DIRECT COSTS (ODC’s):  This task does not anticipate ODC’s, however, ODC’s shall be identified if know.

8.8   Pricing must be provided separate from the technical proposal.

8.9   Technical Approach  – Each contractor will be evaluated on their demonstrated understanding of the task order requirements (Feasible), the
adequacy of the solution approach (Practical), the quality and completeness of their technical solutions to these objectives (Appropriate).


8.9.1 Contractors ability to meet VA specific requirements as outlined in the PWS relating to the following key areas:

            ▪ Post Award Orientation Conference
            ▪ Project Plan
            ▪ Provide Medical Claims Clearinghouse Services
            ▪ Written Monthly Activity Reports and Interim Reports
         ▪ Quality Control Plan (QCP) – Contractors will provide a QCP in accordance with the QASP in section 5.2.
         ▪ The Technical Approach shall be limited to 20 pages.

8.10  Past Experience:

8.10.1  Contractors shall submit documentation of at least three past or current contracts/task orders executed within the past 3-5 years with
comparable (same or similar scope, size, duration, complexity) requirements to the solicited task.  At least one contract/task order should be a
Federal contract/order with the U.S. Federal Government.  In rating this factor, the Government will evaluate the firm's comparable experience.
This factor will be evaluated as a measure of the Government's confidence in the vendor’s ability to successfully complete a project with
comparable scope, size, duration, and complexity to the solicited task.  Note:  Limit each narrative to one (1) page.

8.10.2  Each narrative shall include the project title, project number, customer, key personnel, length of project, and description of project
and services provided.

8.10.3  Describe projects your firm has or is working on that address the kinds and types of requirements specifically called out in the PWS.
Direct experience with similar systems of other agencies should be highlighted.

8.10.4  The Government may supplement the information provided with any other information it may obtain from any other source including its own
experience with your firm (or Sub-vendor or teaming partner), and information concerning past experience from any other reliable source.

8.11  Price

8.11.1      Pricing shall be for a base year and four (4) additional one-year option years, with each year set out separately and a grand total
       for all five years.  The proposal must be priced by year and include a summary for the base year and the 4 option years.

8.11.2      This task order will be awarded as Firm Fixed Price Per Volume.

   3. In an effort to receive the highest quality solution at the best value, the government requests all available discounts on all services
      offered by contractors for this requirement.  Contractors are encouraged to offer discounts below contract rates. When offering discounts,
      proposals must clearly identify both the contract and the discount price.

   4. The Government is expecting unit price per volume based costing for the claims.  The contractor shall provide unit prices for each type of
      claim.


9. LEVEL OF EFFORT

Note:  Start-Up Services is an initial connection and set up with the FSC.

Base Year
|ITEM                                |Estimated Volume          |Unit Price Per Volume  |Extended Price            |DISCOUNT                     |
|Start Up Services                   |N/A                       |N/A                    |                          |                             |
|HCFA OCR Claims                     |139,750                   |                       |                          |                             |
|UB OCR Claims                       |53,750                    |                       |                          |                             |
|837 Health Care Claims              |61,500                    |                       |                          |                             |
|835 Health Care Claim Payment       |40,000                    |                       |                          |                             |

 Option Year 1
|ITEM                                |Estimated Volume          |Unit Price Per Volume  |Extended Price            |DISCOUNT                     |
|HCFA OCR Claims                     |143,000                   |                       |                          |                             |
|UB OCR Claims                       |55,000                    |                       |                          |                             |
|837 Health Care Claims              |22,000                    |                       |                          |                             |

Option Year 2
|ITEM                                |Estimated Volume          |Unit Price Per Volume  |Extended Price            |DISCOUNT                     |
|HCFA OCR Claims                     |157,000                   |                       |                          |                             |
|UB OCR Claims                       |60,500                    |                       |                          |                             |
|837 Health Care Claims              |24,200                    |                       |                          |                             |

Option Year 3
|ITEM                                |Estimated Volume          |Unit Price Per Volume  |Extended Price            |DISCOUNT                     |
|HCFA OCR Claims                     |173,030                   |                       |                          |                             |
|UB OCR Claims                       |66,500                    |                       |                          |                             |
|837 Health Care Claims              |26,620                    |                       |                          |                             |

 Option Year 4
|ITEM                                |Estimated Volume          |Unit Price Per Volume  |Extended Price            |DISCOUNT                     |
|HCFA OCR Claims                     |190,000                   |                       |                          |                             |
|UB OCR Claims                       |73,000                    |                       |                          |                             |
|837 Health Care Claims              |29,300                    |                       |                          |                             |



10.0  CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES TO RECEIVE PAYMENT - FAR Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions – Commercial Items (Oct 2003) applies
to this task.  Additional instructions on invoicing and payment are provided below.

10.1  Systems Submission of Invoices -  Invoice submission is a two step process:

10.1.1      The Contractor shall develop an Acceptance Information document in IT Solutions Shop (ITSS) and attach a copy of invoice with all
required back-up documentation.

            Current ITSS web site https://it-solutions.gsa.gov

10.1.2      Contractor must obtain client acceptance through ITSS.  If unable to perform this function in ITSS the contractor must send a copy
of the invoice with client acceptance to the following address:

           GSA/FTS/7TC
           ATTN:  Client Acceptance
           819 Taylor Street, Room 11A30
           Fort Worth, TX  76102

10.1.3      The Contractor shall also complete the invoice form on the Finance web site and attach an electronic copy of invoice.  This is the
official system of record; the invoice will not be processed for payment unless this process is completed.

           Current General Services Administration (GSA) Finance web site is www.finance.gsa.gov.  Go to http://finance.gsa.gov/password/ to
           obtain Password/Sign-Up for Email Notification.

10.2  Invoice Submission Process

10.2.1      Submit each invoice only once in ITSS and the Finance website.  If editing is required, update the first submission; don’t create a
second invoice submission.  Make sure the invoice amount and the acceptance document amount are the same.  Use the same invoice number for both
the Finance and ITSS submission.  Don’t use voucher numbers.  Always enter the invoice number on the Acceptance document in ITSS.  The invoice
number must be identical in both sites.

10.2.2      Do not use special characters in the invoice number, only alpha and/or numeric.  No spaces in invoice number.

10.2.3      If an invoice is rejected, a corrected invoice will be submitted using the original invoice number with some type of unique
identifier attached; i.e. “R” to denote resubmission which will make the invoice number unique.  Each invoice submission must have an invoice
number that is unique.  The corrected invoice must be submitted both in ITSS and the Finance website with the new resubmitted invoice number.

10.2.4      In addition, the contractor is responsible for ensuring client acceptance of invoice. This can be accomplished in ITSS or contractor
may have client sign a hard copy of invoice prior to attaching to the Acceptance Information document in ITSS.

10.3  Timing of invoices - Invoices shall be submitted for payment of items/services that have been completed and accepted by the Contracting
      Officer Representative (COR).

10.4  Payment of Invoices

10.4.1      Payment of invoices shall be based on the acceptability of the invoiced item.  All items invoiced must meet or exceed the
contractual standard.  If the invoiced item does not meet the established contractual standard, the invoice will not be paid until the item has
been determined to meet the established standards.

10.4.2      The contractor is reminded that invoices shall be submitted In accordance with (IAW) FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions –
Commercial Items, paragraph g, which states the following:

           52.212-4(g) Invoice.
           (1) The contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated
           in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include:


           (i) Name and address of the contractor;
           (ii) Invoice date and number;
           (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;
           (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;
           (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of
           lading;
           (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;
           (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;
           (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and
           (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this
           contract.
           (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

10.4.3      The contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

10.4.4      If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the contractor
shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33,
Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contracting Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central
Contracting Registration), or applicable agency procedures.

10.4.5      EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.

10.4.6      Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt
payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.

10.5  Other Information Relating to Successful Invoice Processing

10.5.1      If any of the information listed above is absent from an invoice, GSA will reject your invoice.

10.5.2      Due to Congressional Mandate and the Policy Memo from the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, all purchase order contractor data
(including contracts) in ITSS must match the contractor data in the Central Contracting Registration (CCR).  Finance is now rejecting purchase
orders, purchase order modifications and invoices having data that does not match CCR information.  This includes all orders regardless of
remaining value.  Contact the GSA CO or GSA PM for further information or assistance.

10.5.3      Review contractor registration, individual contract personnel registration and contract registration in ITSS on a regular basis to
ensure all information is correct and up-to-date.  This will help in processing invoices as well as task order actions successfully.  The ITSS
Help desk phone number is 1-877-243-2889 and their website is https://it-solutions.gsa.gov.

10.5.4      Be sure to reference ACT number when submitting requests for client acceptance.  Monthly status report shall also be submitted in
ITSS with the invoice.

10.5.5      If an invoice is rejected, it is the responsibility of the contractor to notify the Project Manager (PM) so issues can be resolved
in a timely manner.

