<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSAQMMA12R0381DD254.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSAQMMA12R0381DD254.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>

ATTACHMENT   1

DS Development, Modernization and Enhancement

Statement of Work





Background

The Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) is responsible for providing a safe and secure environment for the conduct of U.S. foreign policy.  Every diplomatic mission in the world operates under a technical, physical and information security program designed and maintained by Diplomatic Security. In the United States, Diplomatic Security manages and supports these worldwide security programs for the protection of Life, Property and Information.  Critical elements in accomplishing this mission are criminal investigations, local/global intelligence threat analysis and reporting, passport and visa fraud investigations, conduct of personnel security investigations, and protection of the Secretary of State and high-ranking foreign dignitaries and officials visiting the United States.  

The DS Office of the Chief Technology Officer (DS/EX/CTO) has the authority and responsibility for managing and implementing the IT program requirements of DS in a manner that facilitates the achievement of Bureau performance goals. The mission of the CTO is to provide effective information resource management for the Bureau: to maximize the accessibility and utility of information for all DS personnel and stakeholders through excellence in service delivery, program management and innovative technology applications.

The CTO provides the resources necessary to collect, assimilate, and distribute the information essential to the Bureau’s primary mission of providing a secure environment for the conduct of American diplomacy and the promotion of U.S. foreign policy worldwide.  

The CTO supports the Bureau’s performance management goals through internal adherence to quality standards in all areas of its operations and is evidenced by their current organizational ISO 9001 Certification.  These standards are required to allow the organization to meet internal performance measures that support federal and Department of State IT management, security and operations policies and regulations.  The accomplishment of the Bureau’s mission is largely supported by the IT applications developed and supported by CTO many of which involve inter-agency discussion and cooperation due to integration requirements.  Innovation is required to support this dynamic environment, where change is a constant, and modernization and improvement projects utilize a blend of custom developed and commercial-off-the-shelf software applications.  These applications are based on a variety of technology platforms with specific capabilities.  To support the diverse requirements of the Bureau, CTO consistently manages up to 75 IT projects on a concurrent basis.

The work referenced in this request is to provide the Bureau of Diplomatic Security with real time services for Development, Modernization and Enhancement of the IT systems that enable the Bureau to conduct Department of State worldwide security and law enforcement missions.  

The scope of this requirement encompasses obtaining the Information Technology (IT) support services necessary to perform in functional areas such as: Project management, Custom software development, Software & product integration and configuration, quality management and assurance, Testing, Requirements gathering and business analysis, Solutions architecture, Strategic planning, System deployment & transition to operations, Training, Technical writing, enterprise architecture, and, to a lesser degree, systems maintenance and operations support. Additionally some limited telecommunications/networking knowledge and Web site support is required. The services acquired also include the program management and administrative support necessary for the preparation and update of systems documentation and related services.

Purpose

The purpose of the procurement is to acquire software engineering Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME), technical, operations and administrative support for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security. DME work includes support for any and all phases of the software development life cycle.  Technical support services include Level 3 support, software maintenance, analytical and research support, testing and installation of patches, and development and deployment of emergency or urgent releases. Operations support may include managing deployments of applications, administering users, updating security patches, performing database backups, proactively monitoring and tuning database and providing operational training. Administrative support includes quality management & assurance, configuration & change management, financial reporting, executive level administrative assistance, coordination and administration of internal governance committees and boards. The contractor will execute numerous projects and will also support numerous Automated Information Systems (AIS) that support the Bureau of Diplomatic Security’s mission. 

Scope

Work to be performed under this contract will support the mission of DS/EX/CTO to provide effective information resource management for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security; to maximize the accessibility and utility of information for all DS personnel and stakeholders through excellence in service delivery, program management and innovative technology applications.

The scope of this requirement encompasses obtaining Information Technology (IT) support services necessary for requirements definition, design, development, implementation, testing, deployment, and operations and maintenance for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security’s technical solutions. The services acquired will also include program management and administrative support necessary for the preparation and update of systems documentation and related services.  

The following Task Areas apply:

Task Area 1: Contract & Program  Management

Task Area 2: Portfolio Management 

Task Area 3: Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Functional Task Areas



Task Area 1 – Contract and Program Management

Provide the technical and functional activities needed for management of this contract, including productivity and management methods such as Quality Assurance, Program level Change Management, Work Breakdown Structure, and Human Engineering.  Provide centralized administrative, clerical, documentation and other related functions.

The contractor shall be responsible for program control and management for this effort including, but not limited to:

Managing personnel (including development, training, and evaluation)

Staffing

Allocating and scheduling resources

Coordinating and communicating with government management and technical resources

Integrating all development efforts with other engineering efforts within CTO and/or other entities as approved

Monitoring and reporting on status

Ensuring physical security of contractor-operated facilities, including security of networks, equipment, and other infrastructure components used for execution of the tasks under this contract

Providing assistance to the Government in establishing priorities and meeting the needs of the DS user community

Managing customer relationships

Meeting appropriate government standards

Delivering effective and efficient services

The contractor shall provide unified contract management support and control over all projects and tasks approved for or supported under this contract. Activities include but are not limited to:

Contract Management

Program Management

In-progress reviews

Consistency of approach

Management Structure & Organization



Contract Management

Prepare a Contract Management Plan describing the technical approach, organizational resources, management structure and organization, and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements throughout contract execution. 

Program Management

Provide the technical and functional activities needed for program management of this contract, including productivity and management methods such as Quality Assurance, Configuration Management, Work Breakdown Structure, and Human Engineering.  Provide centralized administrative, clerical, documentation and other related functions.

In-Progress Reviews

The contractor shall provide/present a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, configuration management, program metrics, and contract funding data, risks and recommendations. Status reports will be provided monthly and presented no less than quarterly. 

Consistency of Approach

The contractor shall ensure that all analysis, design, development, and documentation activities performed under this contract use consistent analysis techniques, design models, user interface models, database models, technical architectures, and documentation standards. All products delivered are based on consistent design, development tools/techniques, and architectures. All products produced are the property of the government and must not include contractor branding or indicators of corporate marketing. This includes both new systems/components designed and developed under this contract as well as maintenance of existing systems. For the enhancement/maintenance of an existing system, the contractor shall adhere to the architecture and design of an existing system unless directed otherwise as noted in the exceptions below.

Exceptions to this requirement will only be allowed under the following circumstances:

The COR or a Government Technical Monitor (GTM) agrees in writing that a contractor proposed deviation from a standard, guideline or model is acceptable. 



Management Structure & Organization

The contractor shall institute and maintain an effective, efficient, and responsive management organization that shall oversee all contractor personnel and subcontractor resources used in the performance of this contract. The contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that all government authorized projects, tasks and work activities are performed in a timely and cost-effective manner, while maintaining the highest quality of performance. The contractor's management structure and organization shall be capable of ensuring, at a minimum, that the following functional and personnel requirements are met:

A technically proficient and professionally capable staff is established and maintained throughout the life of the contract

Personnel turnover is minimized and individuals are motivated to achieve excellent performance

Provide a plan for addressing a surge in staff when needed by the government

Provide a plan for staffing for new technical skills deemed necessary by the USG

Provide a plan for accommodating staff under this contract at contractor facilities if deemed necessary by the government during the course of the contract 

Seamless phase-in of contractor personnel without interruption 

Effective management of contractor personnel to ensure a minimum of 90% staffing at all times

Consistent and accurate reporting of performance to the Government 

Problems are resolved with minimal disruption to the activities being performed under the contract

Continuous feedback on performance are provided to CTO personnel on all areas of contract performance

All resources used for performance of work under the contract are identified and their roles are clearly defined

Process improvements are made on a continuous basis in an effort to improve both the timeliness and quality of work products

Risks are identified, assessed, and mitigated

All contractual requirements are met

Adequate implementation and management of subcontractor(s)

Effective quality management in accordance with the Contractor’s Quality Control (QC) plan

Work cooperatively and efficiently with contractors from other companies and FTE staff





Task Area 2 – Portfolio & Organizational Management

IT portfolio management is the application of systematic management to large classes of items managed by enterprise Information Technology (IT) capabilities. The goal of this task area is to quantify IT efforts, enable measurement and objective evaluation of IT projects. This quantification is applicable to decision support prior to undertaking a project, monitoring project progress and maturing the organization through application of post-project lessons learned. 

The contractor shall support the performance of several portfolio management associated activities; these include and are not limited to the following: 

The contractor shall perform activities in support of Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC), enterprise architecture, information architecture, the project/work request process (to include coordinating disposition of each request), MS Project Server administration and customer relationship management processes.

In some cases (as approved), the contractor shall perform some or all of the activities below prior to a project being fully approved/authorized in order to:

Achieve a common understanding of the business need and potential impact

Conduct feasibility studies for new projects/systems.

Document the current and proposed business processes and analyze the difference between the two (conduct alternatives analysis)

Develop/prepare concept of operations for proposed project. 

Develop/prepare project plan for project.

The contractor shall perform administrative and coordination activities in support of the DS Information Technology Review Board (ITRB), the CTO IT Project Coordination Group (IT-PCG), and the CTO Process Management Group (PMG)

The contractor shall provide an administrative assistant to the CTO

The contractor shall provide program and strategic planning support.  This support shall include digital government IT solutions consulting, development of portfolio and project plans, oversight, and status reporting of the IT efforts.  The support shall also include all activities necessary to draft and produce program and strategic plans and documents related to planning, development, and implementation of hardware, software, and communication systems employed by the Bureau.  

The contractor shall provide recommendations on both strategic and tactical solutions, perform research into other agency approaches to similar challenges, maintain currency with legal and policy requirements relevant to DS mission areas and associated systems, perform proof of concept work at the request of the Government, and serve as a senior advisor to the DS CTO.

In the performance of each approved project executed under this contract, the contractor shall use the existing Microsoft Project Server tool to manage the project schedule and earned value metrics. 

Certain tasks/efforts/work will be exempt from EVM reporting and monitoring requirements; however accounting for labor expended in all task areas is required to be entered into the MS project server tool by all contractors and appropriately captured and categorized. The contractor shall require all of its subcontractors to also comply with this requirement. (See appendix A for more on EVMS requirements)

The contractor shall provide full program oversight, metrics reporting, and progress monitoring for work performed under this contract as well as by select other vendors performing as members of project teams managed by staff under this contract.

Other tasks as assigned





Task Area 3 – Development, Modernization and Enhancement Services

The contractor shall provide support for any and all phases of software development/deployment to ensure DoS applications and databases will enable their users to meet their mission goals and objectives. These efforts include all phases of SDLC including the full range of project management, software design, development, implementation and integration, including, but not limited to, requirements definition and analysis, systems design and development, coding and testing, preparation for deployment, data conversion, and integration. The SDLC can be tailored to the requirements of each project as appropriate and approved by a designated FTE within DS/EX/CTO.  DME services to be provided under this contract include the following SDLC activities, but are not limited to:

Project Management:

The contractor shall follow CTO’s standard Project Lifecycle (PLC) processes, CTO’s Change and Configuration Management processes, and the Department’s Managing State Projects (MSP) methodology.  The contractor shall also employ the appropriate guidelines, methodologies, best practices, etc., of the following standards organizations to the extent practicable:

Project Management Institute (PMI)

Software Engineering Institute (SEI)

International Standards Organization (ISO)

Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)

Requirements Definition:

Understand the system needs and the basic path to achieve those needs

Prepare SDLC documentation, including but not limited to concept of operations, requirements specifications, and other intellectual property and documentation artifacts  

Identify, analyze, specify and document the business, operational, and security requirements of the project so that the solution meets DoS’s needs

Development of user interface wire-frames, system navigation maps, and mock-ups 

Set up the Common Development Environment—Team Specific  (CDE-T environment) to meet the requirements necessary to support the deployment of the solution 

Support for deployment and release activities

Review and analyze the current solution features and specifications to determine what changes, if any, are needed to accommodate the new requirements

Identify documents for the business processes that will drive the requirements

Elicit, analyze and document the business needs and the requirements to satisfy the business needs

Establish the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM)

Support for the development of system security documentation, including but not limited to system security plans, contingency plans, business impact assessments, and privacy impact assessments 

Develop intellectual property and documentation artifacts as required, including but not limited to; installation guides, software release notices, data models, as-built documentation, administrative standard operational procedures (SOPs) and end user documentation

Design:

Reach technical agreement on how and when the solution will be implemented

Develop design documents which includes the detailed functional, technical, architectural, and security specifications for the software solution

Ensure designs are consistent with the DS enterprise architecture and strategic direction of the Bureau

Develop contractor test plan and test scripts, scenarios, and use cases

Development and Unit Testing

Build and verify the system, and establish a plan and approach to implement the system

Develop the software solution to meet the specified requirements according to the approved requirements document and approved design document

Finalize test plans

Finalize contractor test scripts, scenarios, and cases

Finalize the requirements traceability matrix (RTM)

Develop installation guides

Support the design and development of training materials and on-line help/user manuals (e.g., provide input to training Contractor, conduct train-the-trainer)

Develop IT operations and support manuals

Support the finalization of system security documentation with results from the certification and accreditation test

Integration and System Testing/Acceptance

Project teams will identify system/software release candidates and coordinate the deployment and testing of each release. (See task areas 4 and 5)

Deployment

Project teams will coordinate the deployment of each release through the approved CTO deployment process. (See task areas 3 and 4).

The project team will perform or otherwise support the following:

Transition the system into operational use according to CTO procedures

Develop training materials for deployed solutions as required (see task area 4)

Conduct in person or real-time web-based training as required to users and to user designated trainers (see task area 4)

Support CTO’s Operations Branch for troubleshooting and correcting system bugs as needed. (see task area 4)

Disposition

Support decommissioning of existing automated systems as systems are retired.

Support migration of data from decommissioned systems to new systems



Task Area 4 – Quality Management & Testing

The contractor shall support the performance of several quality related activities. 

The contractor shall perform ongoing quality assurance, quality control, performance improvement and quality program monitoring activities that include all areas of CTO

The contractor shall assume the existing CTO quality management program, improve the program and support the ongoing annual ISO-9001 organizational recertification process.

Ensure the quality program addresses and measures all organizational process areas of CTO across all contracts.

Implement CMMI level 3 compliant processes within CTO where necessary and supported/approved by the COR and/or the CTO.

Integration and System Testing/Acceptance

Provide concurrence to a system’s readiness for use in the operational environment

Develop test plans and test scripts, scenarios, and use cases as appropriate for each system tested.

Conduct system integration testing in the identified testing lab —validate that the software solution modules and components will work as expected with other modules, components, systems, and applications in the expected environment.

Conduct testing/verification —validate the software solution as a whole meets the functional and operational requirements and meets user expectations

Conduct beta pilot tests

Support deployment readiness review activities, as required

Conduct software testing in integrated lab, as required.

As needed; perform automated testing, automated regression testing, update automated test scripts, and conduct performance testing and/or load testing.





Task Area 5 - Technical Support Services

The contractor shall be responsible for making a change or group of changes to software engineering solutions that already exist in production, to enable them to operate according to the most recent set of approved requirements, without changing functionality, features or capabilities. These requests typically result from defect/bug fixes, minor adjustments due to infrastructure changes, vendor patches/service pack releases, and minor version upgrades, but are not emergency/urgent, allowing for planned activities. Typical activities include problem management, incident management, change management, configuration management, availability management, service level management, and support for system security re-certifications and accreditations and assistance with other security documentation.  

Configuration and Release Management

The contractor shall perform configuration management and software release management activities. These activities shall include distribution of software notices, capture and archival of release notes, maintaining the master deployment and patch schedule, ensuring resources are notified and able to complete scheduled deployments, and enforcing deployment and CM processes.  

The contractor shall coordinate the deployment of patches, hot-fixes, minor bug-fix releases, database scripts and new releases of systems produced from the projects executed under Task Area 3 to the test, training and production environments as appropriate. The contractor will ensure the following are performed:

Capture and store release notes for every release

Ensure appropriate fall-back plans exist for each release

Ensure government approval has been obtained for each production release

Deployments & Operations Support

The contractor shall perform installation of patches, hot-fixes or other system level changes to the operating systems, products and configurations existing in development, test, training and production environments for application and database servers.

The contractor shall assist in the administration of the development network and developer workstations.

Seek to establish standard operating system images for developers of various types

Assist in the administration of a VMware enabled development, test, sandbox and core services environments to ensure resources are appropriately utilized

Assist developers in troubleshooting their PCs

Ensure the configuration of system test environments are representative of production systems

The contractor shall support the external operations team in ensuring backups are performed and are recoverable across all environments where database servers require backup. 

The contractor shall support the generation of SQL scripts or other rapid methods required to correct data anomalies or extract specific data from production or other systems as approved.

The contractor shall administer system users as needed or until the respective system is transitioned to the operations team.

The contractor shall provide Tier 3 end-user technical support activities for selected projects and systems up to 8x5 (not including during government holidays, inclement weather, and emergencies), or as requested by the COR and/or GTM.

The contractor shall ensure that the Tier 3 support is available on demand and provide substitutes in the event that assigned personnel are not available.

The contractor shall maintain, deliver, and execute Tier 3 Support SOPs that address the Support Desk operations, including the response and escalation requirements in the below Table.

The COR and/or GTM may authorize and request that staff remain beyond their normal duty hours, or work special hours, in order to resolve an urgent system outage or failure.  This can include any staff operating under this contract, regardless of functional task area.

A specific and limited number of contractor staff may be required to perform should the government ‘shut-down’ in order to maintain basic systems operations. These staff will be designated as part of the emergency support team and required to work, at a minimum, normal duty hours should a government shut-down occur. 

Table—Tier 3 Performance Standards



Tier 3 support includes, but is not limited to:

Treating all customers courteously and professionally

Updating, maintaining and using the current CTO knowledge database of known problems and their solutions in order to provide timely and consistent responses to customers

Recording in the support desk ticket all activities performed as part of the problem resolution. This includes documenting any references to the Support Desk knowledge database used in responding to the support request

Providing statistical and trend analysis reports to show the distribution and frequency of recurring requests for assistance and suggesting and implementing ways to reduce the number of calls regarding a particular issue

Providing rapid, accurate and meaningful responses to requests for support

Providing metrics and reports

Collaborating with Tier 1, Tier 2 and other Tier 3 support providers, including those who are contractors, to provide a positive experience to the customer

If contacted directly by a customer, ensuring that a trouble ticket is created with the IT Service Center and provide the tracking number to the customer for reference

Providing emergency software maintenance  in accordance with an approved Emergency Response Plan

Other technical support includes such activities as:

Providing analytical and research support

Working closely with Development and Quality Assurance (QA) to ensure customer product issues are resolved appropriately

Providing effective and timely communication to support teams

Informing support teams on technical details of new product versions

Providing technical support to customers on specific products, primarily over the telephone and through email

Documenting issues and enhancements

Assisting with and supporting on-going development and technical issues and recommend new solutions



SharePoint and Content Management Support

The contractor shall perform content management activities as requested from designated POCs.

Content management activities include modifications to ASP, CFML, HTML and SharePoint sites.

The contractor shall provide a SharePoint support team that will perform the following

Develop, publish and enforce (once approved) SharePoint governance policies and procedures in order to maintain order within the SharePoint implementation. 

Provide tier 2 support to existing approximately 100 SharePoint site administrators within DS.

Assist in the training process for new site administrators as nominated within DS.

Perform actions necessary to complete approved routine requests for new sites and small modifications to sites.

Perform as members of project teams where SharePoint has been deemed an appropriate technology; utilize SharePoint developer or other tools to implement customizations or implement other features of SharePoint.

Training Support

Provide operational training –work with project teams to develop and deliver training and help materials. This includes developing and presenting training in-person, either locally in the DC area or via real-time web meeting technologies. This training is primarily end-user focused but may include development of administrator oriented training as well. 

The contractor shall develop from scratch training guides, user manuals, integrated help systems and pre-recorded computer based training/simulations, and surveys per DoS, DS and Information Resource Management (IRM) standards.  Experience in current Windows operating systems and Microsoft Back Office products is required. This task may require instruction via classroom, conference calls, or one-on-one settings related to custom or COTS/GOTS applications. As training may be required for students in remote locations, the trainers may be required to conduct training during other than normal duty hours. This occurs infrequently.



Key Personnel & Subject Matter Experts

The contract requires both key personnel and subject matter experts; these two areas may be mixed in that a person indicated as key personnel may also be indicated as a subject matter expert. The contract has specific requirements of both.

The contractor shall assign to this Task the following Key Personnel:

Program Management – Task Area 1 (1 Position)

Project Management Support – Task Area 3 (not less than 5 positions)

IT Program Planning Support – Task Area 2 (1 Position)

Senior Database Developer – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Senior Java Developer – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Senior CRM Specialist – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Senior Integration Specialist – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Senior Reports Developer – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Senior BPM Developer – Task Area 3 (1 position)

Quality Manager - Task Area 4 (1 position)

Database Management Support – Task Area 5 (1 position)



The contractor shall assign to this Task the following Subject Matter Experts:

IC Community and ‘Big Data’ Expert

Law Enforcement Case Management Expert

Background Investigations Expert

Solutions Architecture Expert

The contractor agrees that a partial basis for award of this contract is the list of Key Personnel & Subject Matter Experts proposed.  Accordingly, the contractor agrees to assign to this contract those key persons whose resumes were submitted with the proposal necessary to fulfill the requirements of the contract.  No substitution shall be made without prior notification and concurrence of the COR.  During the first ninety days of performance, the contractor shall make no substitutions of Key Personnel and Subject Matter Experts unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment.  In case of these occurrences, the contractor shall notify the COR promptly and submit documentation (resumes, security clearance information, etc.) pertaining to the proposed substitution.  The Department reserves the right to interview candidates replacing key persons.

The contractor shall ensure that all personnel (key and non-key) performing under this contract possess the training, skill and expertise needed to perform the tasks.  Any training, consulting, etc., (except specific to the Department of State), necessary to ensure that the requirements under this performance work statement are met shall be the responsibility of the contractor.  All proposed substitutes for key and non-key personnel shall meet or exceed the qualifications of the person to be replaced.  The COR shall be notified in writing of any proposed substitution of key and non-key personnel at least fourteen days in advance of the proposed substitution.  Such notification shall include: (1) an explanation of the circumstances necessitating the substitution; (2) a complete resume of the proposed substitute; and (3) any other information requested by the COR to enable that person to judge whether or not the contractor is maintaining the same high quality of personnel and to permit evaluation of the impact of the proposed change on the program and its schedule.  

The Government will provide on-the-job training to contractor employees in business applications specific to the Department of State.



Minimum Desired Qualifications for Key Personnel

The minimum desired qualifications for each Key Personnel position are set forth below.  Refer to Section H of the RFP for personnel security clearance requirements. 

Program Management –Task Area 1

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and 10 years of experience in managing complex IT development programs. Advanced degree preferred.

Project Management Professional (PMP®) Credential or equivalent

Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Certification or equivalent 

A minimum of 5 years experience in implementing Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Levels 2 and 3 processes or Lean Six Sigma practices



Project Management Support –Task Area 2

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A BS degree from an accredited university and 5 years of experience in managing complex IT development programs. Advanced degree preferred.

Project Management Professional (PMP®) Credential or equivalent

Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) foundations Certification

Experience in implementing Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Levels 2 and 3 processes or Lean Six Sigma practices



IT Program Planning Support – Task Area 2

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A BS degree from an accredited university and 5 years of experience in budget and financial analysis for large IT programs. Advanced degree preferred.

A minimum of 3 years experience with the Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC) process with the Federal Government

A minimum of 3 years experience with the Federal Enterprise Architecture and the associated reference models

Understanding of the EVM, portfolio management, and project management processes.





Senior Database Developer – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and/or 10 years experience in the development of enterprise level applications using PL/SQL

Formal training in, and/or certification in, database development, techniques and principles

A minimum of 5 years experience in the development Oracle PL/SQL procedures for enterprise level applications

A minimum of 3 years experience in establishing report marts, search marts, and data warehouse environments

A minimum of 3 years experience implementing Export Transform and Load (ETL) processes using IBM’s Data Stage/Quality Stage tools.

Experience developing T-SQL is also desired.



Senior Java Developer – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and 6 years experience in the development of enterprise level web applications using Java

Formal training in Object-Oriented programming techniques and principles

A minimum of 5 years experience in the development Oracle PL/SQL procedures for enterprise level applications



Senior CRM Specialist – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and/or 6 years experience in the development of enterprise level CRM applications using the Siebel CRM product

Formal training in Siebel CRM development, programming techniques and principles

Current certification as Siebel CRM consultant preferred



Senior Integration Specialist – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and/or 6 years experience in the development of enterprise data exchange interfaces using web services.

4 years experience using the MS BizTalk platform/tool to implement web services or other methods to interface systems and data. 



Senior Reports Developer – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and/or 6 years experience in the development of analytic reports.

4 years experience using the SAP Business Objects platform/tools to implement reports and report universes to provide parametric reporting capabilities to business users.

Experience administering the SAP Business Objects platform/tools, performing upgrades, and working with database and warehouse developers.



Senior BPM Developer – Task Area 3

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and 8 years experience in the development of enterprise level web applications

A minimum of 5 years experience in the development of enterprise level business process management applications leveraging industry leading BPMS technologies.

A minimum of 3 years experience implementing BPM solutions using the Metastorm BPM platform/tools.

A minimum of 5 years experience in the development Oracle PL/SQL procedures for enterprise level applications



Quality Manager - Task Area 4

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and 8 years experience in quality assurance and quality management

Knowledge of test theory, test processes, and experience managing a test team.

Experience implementing a quality program, such as ISO 9001, in an organization. Knowledge of ISO 9001 and the certification process. 

Certification in lean six-sigma or equivalent.



Database Management Support – Task Area 5

Minimum Desired Qualifications for this position:

A technical BS degree from an accredited university and 8 years of experience in the management and administration of enterprise level Oracle databases.  Advanced degree preferred.

Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) in Oracle 10g and/or 11g

A minimum of 5 years experience with Oracle Application Server management

A minimum of 5 years experience with the planning and implementation of Oracle database disaster recovery for enterprise level applications.





Minimum Desired Qualifications for Subject Matter Experts (SME)

The minimum desired qualifications for each SME are set forth below.  These areas of expertise can be met through overlap with key personnel; for example the proposed the Database Management Support key person could also be indicated as the IC community SME should their qualifications match in both areas. Refer to Section H of the RFP for personnel security clearance requirements. 

IC Community and ‘Big Data’ Expert

Minimum Desired Expertise for this position:

Knowledge and experience in the unique needs of Intelligence Community (IC) and counter-terrorism agencies, missions, operations and systems. Specifically through the use of data analytics, link analysis, data warehousing, search and retrieval, support for databases containing extremely large volumes of data, extensive knowledge of federal data exchange standards and data exchange technologies, challenges and policies.

Knowledge and understanding in how intelligence analysts perform their work

Must have, or be able to receive, a TS/SCI clearance



Law Enforcement Case Management Expert

Minimum Desired Expertise for this position:

Knowledge and experience in law enforcement case management systems and a solid understanding of investigative processes, procedures and the unique handling requirements for law enforcement and privacy information.

Knowledge and understanding in how criminal investigators and criminal case analysts perform their work

Knowledge in areas of litigation, FOIA requirements for criminal systems, and technical architectures able to facilitate separations in data layers such that when data is subpoenaed it can be easily extracted without disclosing unnecessary information 

Knowledge of fingerprinting systems, interfaces and integration methods



Background Investigations Expert

Minimum Desired Expertise for this position:

Knowledge and experience in background investigation and adjudication processes and systems related to Federal suitability programs.

Knowledge and understanding in how background investigators, clearance analysts and adjudicators perform their work



Solutions Architecture Expert

Minimum Desired Expertise for this position:

Knowledge and experience in planning, implementing and maintaining continuity of operations sites and fault tolerant technologies able to ensure zero loss of data and system availability in the event of catastrophic loss of a primary site or specific system. This refers to application and database server level methods used to achieve high levels of availability; i.e., application server clustering, load balancing, database clustering, etc.



Security Awareness 

The contractor shall ensure all contractor personnel are initially and periodically instructed on their security responsibilities.   All contractor personnel requiring access to DoS systems shall attend the Department’s Automated Information System Security Briefing conducted by DS prior to being granted access. Signed certificates certifying successful completion will be maintained by DS/CTO ISSO.  This briefing must be completed annually for continued access to DoS systems.  

Initial and periodic briefings shall also include the individual and corporate responsibilities identified in FAR clause 52.205-2, Security Requirements; 52.223-6, Drug Free Workplace; 52.225-2, Privacy Act; and 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards. The contractor shall also ensure each employee is initially and periodically instructed on the State requirements for Internet and e-mail use identified in the 12 FAM and the Personnel Handbook. It is not intended that these Contract specific briefings be separate training programs but may be incorporated into other contractor briefings, such as those required of National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) Chapter 3.





Deliverables



Delivery Schedule







Deliverables



Contract Management Plan

The contractor shall provide a written Contract Management Plan within thirty days of award describing the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance and schedule requirements throughout contract execution.

Status Reports  

The contractor shall provide a monthly report addressing activities, observations, and recommendations.  The written report will address the activities and findings of the prior month.  This report will cover all tasks initiated under this agreement. This report shall be supplied to the Project Office and will be due by the 10th day of each month.  The report shall include but not be limited to:

A summary of all work/activities performed/undertaken during the previous month

Anticipated work for the next month

Suggested improvement with approved/pending/rejected status; and

Summary of problems or issues along with proposed solutions

Contract financial status

Staffing levels



Project Plans

The government will approve many separate projects for execution under this contract.  The contractor shall prepare formal, DS/CTO approved project plans at the beginning of each of these projects as authorized under the contract; each plan will be used to guide both project execution and project control. The project plan will be prepared by the contractor’s project managers with input from the contractor’s project team, and will be reviewed and approved by the DS/CTO COR or designated GTM along with the project stakeholders and will be updated regularly throughout the project lifecycle. The project plan shall describe the milestones and deliverables, the sequence of activities, and what resources are needed to complete the activities.  The project plan shall allow presentation via work breakdown structure (WBS), Gantt chart, and Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT)/Time Network Diagrams. The primary use of the project plan will be to document planning assumptions and decisions, to facilitate communication among stakeholders, and to document cost and schedule baselines.  

System Documentation

System documentation for each approved project is described in the project tailoring form for each project. A project tailoring form describes the deliverables required for each project and can be changed due to a number of situations, each tailoring form is approved by a government GTM and may be changed through a waiver or change request process. The tailoring form is completed and approved early in a project’s lifecycle. All project deliverables will be subject to quality inspection to include; documentation of programming code, completeness of traceability matrix from requirements to architectural design to detailed design to comments in code to test scripts, and thoroughness of deployment and roll-out plans.

As-built design documents

Documentation that describes a system’s data flow, physical and software architecture, components/classes hierarchy and dependencies, external interfaces, data structures and other information necessary for others to support the system in the future.

Minutes of Meetings

The contractor shall prepare minutes of all technical meetings attended within three (3) business days. The minutes shall be stored in a centralized repository accessible to all DS/CTO staff.  

Quality Control Plan  

The contractor’s Government-approved Quality Control Plan (QCP) shall be submitted with the contractor’s proposal and shall be updated and implemented within 15 calendar days after the date of the contract award.  At a minimum, the QCP shall specifically address quality management procedures for:

Management Responsibility, to include the contractor’s mechanisms for periodically communicating current and ongoing progress on quality objectives and performance standards to the Government;

Continuous Improvement, to include the contractor’s systems for corrective and preventive action, internal auditing or verification methods, and customer satisfaction; and

Process Control, to include the contractor’s systems for collecting, measuring, analyzing, and reporting process performance data and metrics to the government.

Subcontracting Plan  

The contractor’s Department of State-approved individual Subcontracting Plan, submitted with the contractor’s proposal in response to DOSAR Clause 652-219.70 of this contract is included at. The contractor’s finalized Subcontract Agreements with its Government-approved subcontractors shall be included in this attachment after award.  It should be noted that subcontractor DD254’s will not be issued by DS/IS/IND until a subcontract agreement is submitted.

Inspection and Acceptance/Rejection of Deliverables

All deliverables will be inspected by the COR for content completeness, accuracy and conformance to contract requirements.

Inspection and acceptance of all work performance, reports and other deliverables under this contract shall be performed by the COR and/or GTM.

Inspection may include validation of information or software through the use of automated tools and/or testing of the deliverables, as specified in the contract. 

The government requires a period not to exceed five (5) business days after receipt from the contractor of final deliverable items for inspection and acceptance or rejection.

If the draft deliverable is adequate, the Government may accept the draft and provide comments for incorporation into the final version.

All of the Government’s comments to deliverables must either be incorporated in the succeeding version or the contractor must demonstrate to the Government’s satisfaction why such comments should not be incorporated.

If the Government finds that a draft or final deliverable contains spelling errors, grammatical errors, improper format, or otherwise does not conform to the requirements stated within this contract, the document may be immediately rejected without further review and returned to the contractor for correction and re-submission.  If the contractor requires additional Government guidance to produce an acceptable draft, the contractor shall arrange a meeting with the COR. 

The government will provide written acceptance, comments and/or change requests if any, within five working days from receipt by the Government of the initial deliverable.

Upon receipt of the Government comments, the contractor shall have five (5) working days to incorporate the government’s comments and/or change requests and to resubmit the deliverable in its final form.

The Government shall provide written notification of acceptance or rejection of all final deliverables within 5 days.  Absent written notification, final deliverables will be construed as accepted.  All notification of rejection will be accompanied with an explanation of the specific deficiencies causing the rejection.

Non-conforming products or services will be rejected. Deficiencies will be corrected by the contractor within 5 days of the rejection notice.  If the deficiencies cannot be corrected within 5 days, the contractor will immediately notify the COR of the reason for the delay and provide a proposed corrective action plan within three (3) working days of this notification.

The basis for acceptance shall be compliance with the requirements set forth in the contract.  Deliverable items rejected shall be corrected as required by the COR.  Document deliverables will be accepted when all discrepancies, errors or other deficiencies identified in writing by the government have been corrected.

Reimbursable items such as travel will be accepted upon receipt of proper documentation specified in this contract.

The contractor shall provide delivery of electronic copies of each deliverable.  Electronic copies shall be delivered via email attachment or other media by mutual agreement of the parties.  The electronic copies shall be compatible with MS Office 2007/2010 or other applications as appropriate and mutually agreed to by the parties.

The contractor shall use best commercial practices for formatting deliverables under this contract.

Quality Assurance

The Government will evaluate the contractor’s performance under all tasks of the contract, including specified deliverables summarized in Section 6.  The DoS COR will record all surveillance observations.  When an observation indicates defective performance, the COR will require the contract manager to initial the observation and forward the observation to the contracting officer for validation and potential corrective action.  The initialing acknowledges the contractor’s awareness of the observation, but does not constitute concurrence.  Additionally, the Government may elect to use a third party contractor for quality assurance and surveillance activities.  

Special Requirements



Constraints and Coordination

The following apply to this Contract:

Requires the contractor to have and maintain complete technical, financial, and managerial independence from any contractor providing and/or supporting (including all prime/subcontractor relationships, partnerships, and corporate relationships) the Systems Authorization (formerly Certification & Accreditation (C&A)) Services for the systems developed, managed, and supported under execution of this contract as well as other security oversight services performed under control of the DS ISSO.

Requires all work performed to be in compliance with applicable Federal laws, regulations, standards, DoS policy/procedures.

Requires the contractor to comply with all DoS guidelines to protect classified and sensitive information and equipment.

Requires contractor employees to successfully work as a team in meeting timelines and budgets.  

All work shall be completed in accordance with the standards, procedures, and guidelines provided in the DoS Foreign Affairs Manual, Information Technology Systems (5 FAM 600) and/or any other standards as may be identified by the DoS/DS COR and/or GTM.  Any additional relevant standards will be provided to the contractor at the outset of this contract or as needed during the period of performance.

All contract staff designated as Project Managers must be PMP certified and maintain a non-expired, “In Good Standing”, credential status.

The contractor will ensure that all development for DS is in alignment with the Bureau’s Enterprise Architecture (EA).  Specifically, the contractor will adhere to the strategic direction set forth in the latest CTO IT strategic plan and technical architecture.  Furthermore, all project plans will be subject to review through DS IT Governance processes. As part of these review processes, the project plan, proposed concept and alternatives analysis, and design documents will be evaluated for compliance with the EA. 

The contractor shall adhere to the guidelines set forth in the DS CTO Configuration Management Plan. The contractor is responsible for ensuring the DS/CTO CM group has all configuration items necessary for compilation/build, installation, execution, testing, and documenting of the software developed.

The contractor shall adhere to the hardware/software baseline as established by the Department of State’s Information Technology Change Control Board (IT CCB), and/or the DS Information Technology Review Board (ITRB). Non-baseline hardware/software may not be used for activities covered under this contract without prior approval by the GTM.  

The contractor shall develop or update end-user documentation for all solutions produced.

The contractor shall comply with any new CTO guidelines or standards that may be imposed during the life of the contract.





Managing the Project Cycle

DoS/DS employs the Managing State Projects (MSP) methodology, as prescribed by 5 FAM 600, for managing the project cycle.  This project cycle defines project phases, activities, products and control gates.  The CTO office has developed a tailored and condensed version of the project cycle specified by MSP known as the ‘CTO Project Lifecycle’ or PLC. The contractor shall incorporate the appropriate phases, activities, products, and control gates into the project plans for each effort executed under this contract.  Not all phases, activities, products and/or control gates are required for all tasks.  The contractor shall complete a Project Tailoring Review Form (PTRF) prior to initiating each effort that describes the gates and deliverables that will be completed. The PTRF shall indicate only those components that are relevant to the size, scope, and complexity of the activities for the project to be completed.  The PTRF is subject to approval by the government.

Control gates are predetermined technical and management reviews that will be conducted during the course of each project to ensure that the results of the various maintenance/development activities are acceptable to all project participants and that the project should proceed.  Anticipated control gates for most projects are identified below:

Project Plan Review

System Requirements Review

Concept Selection Review

Architectural Design Review

Acquisition Plan Review

Detailed Design Review

Test Readiness Review

Deployment Readiness Review

User Acceptance Review

The DoS/DS GTM may require other technical control gates during the course of each project as appropriate.



Specialized Experience/Past Performance

The contractor must: 

Have demonstrated experience supporting the unique needs of Intelligence Community (IC) and counter-terrorism agencies, missions, operations and systems. Specifically through the use of data analytics, link analysis, search and retrieval, and support for databases containing extremely large volumes of data.

Have experience and specific knowledge in supporting and developing mission critical law enforcement case management systems and a solid understanding of investigative processes, procedures and the unique handling requirements for law enforcement and privacy information.

Have experience and specific knowledge in supporting and developing background investigation systems related to Federal suitability programs.

Have experience in planning, implementing and maintaining continuity of operations sites and fault tolerant technologies able to ensure zero loss of data and system availability in the event of catastrophic loss of a primary site or specific system.

Have experience in strategic capabilities and the capacity to support the CTO as IT advisor to the Bureau on evolving and potential IT Solutions relating to the Bureau mission, providing insight gained through inter-agency liaison and industry best practices and innovations.

Have demonstrated the ability to staff and support a large enterprise having a diverse and ever changing technology base.

Have demonstrated the ability to develop and implement innovative solutions.

Have demonstrated the ability to rapidly staff for new technical skills deemed necessary by the USG.

Have demonstrated experience managing IT projects in the federal sector using a variety of lifecycle methodologies; agile, waterfall, etc.

Have demonstrated capacity to support unplanned overtime, and to perform services as directed by the government at contractor facilities when deemed necessary.







Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) & Government Furnished Information (GFI)

For work performed by the contractor at Government facilities, the Government will furnish workspace, furnishings, computer terminals, telephones, and other material and equipment appropriate to the performance of this contract.  The government will provide all computer resources appropriate to and used in the performance of this contract.

For work authorized to be performed at contractor facilities the contractor shall:

Be responsible for maintenance of all contractor-provided facilities and equipment used to support this contract.

Be responsible for all government-provided property used to support this contract, in accordance with FAR Subpart 45 – Government Property.

Receive and inspect all equipment provided for the contract.

Document all asset management activity.

Prepare the Receiving & Inspection Report (DS-0127) and submit to GTM and the DS/CTO/OPS Asset Management Team. 

Perform physical inventories when requested by the COR, GTM or DS/EX/CTO. 

Coordinate all equipment inventory activities with the DS/CTO/OPS Asset Management Team

Not transfer equipment allocated to this contract to other activities without prior approval from the COR/GTM.  In the case of transfer, a Non-Expendable Property Transaction form (DS-0584) shall be prepared and submitted for COR/GTM and DS/CTO/OPS Asset Management Team approval/action.

Prepare the Domestic Property Excess form (DS-1882) for surplus equipment for COR/GTM and DS/CTO/OPS Asset Management Team approval/action.



CMMI Certified

The contractor shall demonstrate that it, and any proposed sub-contractors, have achieved a minimum Capability Maturity Model Integrated (CMMI) Level 2 certification on other projects.  The contractor shall create and maintain documentation that is consistent with CMMI Level 2 (or higher) practices and will make the documentation available to the Government.

The Government will require certification by a ‘to be specified’ date after contract award. The prime contractor, whether a large or small business, must provide evidence that the contractor’s business unit and any sub-contractors being proposed to support the DME effort have achieved at a minimum CMMI Level 2 certification. This can be achieved by citing a past project where the contractor’s project team achieved certification and providing a copy of the company’s CMMI Level 2 or higher (for Software Engineering) appraisal certificate.



Technical Direction



Performance of the work hereunder shall be subject to technical instructions, whether oral or written, issued by the Contracting Officer’s Representative, or the COR’s authorized representative.  As used herein, technical instructions are defined to include the following:

Directions to the contractor which suggest pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, change work emphasis, fill in details or otherwise serve to assist in the contractor’s accomplishment of the Statement of Work.

Guidance to the contractor which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of work description.

Technical instructions must be within the scope of work stated in the contract.  Technical instructions may not be used to:  

assign additional work under the contract; 

increase or decrease the contract price or estimated amount (including fee), as applicable, the level of effort, or the time required for contract performance; or 

change any of the terms, conditions or specifications of the contract.

If, in the opinion of the contractor, any technical instruction calls for effort outside the scope of the contract or is inconsistent with this requirement, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing within ten working days after the receipt of any such instruction.  The contractor shall not proceed with the work affected by the technical instruction unless and until the contractor is notified by the contracting officer that the technical instruction is within the scope of this contract.

Nothing in the foregoing paragraph shall be construed to excuse the contractor from performing that portion of the contractual work statement which is not affected by the disputed technical instruction.

Compliance with the Bureau’s Information Security Plan

The contractor shall be responsible for selecting the appropriate security controls in accordance with NIST guidelines and standards, OMB guidelines, and DoS Foreign Affairs Manuals, and incorporating the controls into the system design. The contractor shall implement a security program that considers the selection, design, implementation, test, and operational monitoring of security controls during all phases of the system development life cycle. The security program implemented shall ensure that all security requirements are met. The system shall be capable of accreditation by DoS Bureau of Information Resource Management/Information Assurance Division (IRM/IA).  The contractor shall document the security controls using the DoS processes and templates. The contractor shall provide support as required for conducting security tests to validate that required security controls are properly implemented, operate as intended, and produce the desired outcome. Should any of the controls fail, the contractor shall be responsible for remediation of the failures and retest the controls until they pass. The contractor shall be responsible for documenting all test activities. The contractor shall ensure that the system’s accreditation baseline is maintained during the operations and maintenance phase of the system’s life cycle.

Reference Documents include but are not limited to:

- 	Public Law 93-579, The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended

- 	Public Law 99-474, Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986

- 	Public Law 100-235, Computer Security Act of 1987

- 	Public Law 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1978, as amended in 1995, U.S. Code 44 Chapter 35

-	Public Law 104-106, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act)

- 	Public Law 107-347, E-Government Act of 2002, Federal Information Systems Management Act (FISMA)

- 	Presidential Decision Directive/NSC-63 (PDD 63), Critical Infrastructure Protection, May 22, 1998 

- 	Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-123, Management Accountability and Control, June 21, 1995  

- 	OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 28, 2000  

- 	Appendix III to OMB Circular No. A-130, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources, November 28, 2000  

- 	GAO/AIMD-12.19.6, Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual (FISCAM), January 1999 

- 	OMB memorandum M-04-04, E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies of December 16, 2003  

- 	NIST SP 800-53 Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems of February 2005  

- 	NIST SP 800-37, Revision 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems, February 2010  

- 	Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems of December 2003  

- 	12 FAM 600 Information Security Technology 

- 	5 FAM Information Management 





Non-Personal Service Statement

Contractor employees performing services under this contract will be controlled, directed and supervised at all times by management personnel of the contractor.  The contractor’s management shall ensure that employees properly comply with the performance standards outlined in the contractor’s Quality Control Plan (QCP) for all Performance Based tasks.  Contractor employees will perform independent of and without the supervision of any Government official.  Actions of contractor employees may not be interpreted or implemented in any manner that results in any contractor employee creating or modifying Federal policy, obligating the appropriated funds of the U.S. Government, overseeing the work of Federal employees, providing direct personal services to any Federal employee or otherwise violating the prohibitions set forth in Parts 7.5 and 37.1 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  The Government will control access to their facilities and will perform the inspection and acceptance of completed work.



Government Data/Software Rights

All documented procedures, customized software, and applications enhancements developed at Government expense under and for this acquisition shall become the property of the Department of State, subject to the FAR, DOSAR (Department of State Acquisition Regulation), and FAM (Foreign Affairs Manual).  However, the Contractor shall grant to the Government unlimited rights to any data (recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded--including technical data and computer software--as defined in FAR Clause 52.227-14 (a)) first produced at Government expense in performance of this contract.  This data includes new and existing, modified, enhanced, adapted, combined, and/or add-on software and documentation.  The Contractor shall waive all of the restrictions placed on the Government by FAR Clause 52.227-19, and grant the Department of State unlimited rights to all data, including source code, developed for this contract at Government expense.



Co-Location

The Government reserves the right to require the contractor to co-locate with the program office being supported all of part of the personnel required by this contract.  In such instance, the Government will provide office, equipment, and supplies for support. 
















Earned Value Management System (EVMS) Guidelines

(a) In the performance of each project executed under this contract, the contractor shall use the existing Microsoft Project Server tool to manage the project schedule and earned value metrics. 

(b) EVMS Reporting:

1.	The contractor shall use “Milestones Completed” as the predominant earned value methodology using a work breakdown structure (WBS) and cost work breakdown structure (CWBS) jointly approved by the Government and the contractor.

2.	The contractor shall provide a cost performance report (CPR) as requested for any projects authorized and underway as requested. The cost performance report must include, at a minimum, the previous month’s financial activity, and fiscal-year-to-date financial activity for the project. 

3.	Ongoing task areas will be exempt from EVMS reporting and will be summarized as hours and funds expended by functional or task area.

4.	The Contractor’s CPR when provided shall document the current and cumulative variances and report on the Cause, Impact and Corrective Action for all variances that are projected to reach or go beyond the current established OMB or DoS’s. EVMS thresholds (i.e., currently +/- 7%). 

(c) The contractor shall require all of its subcontractors to comply with the requirements of this clause.

(d) The EVMS thresholds may be changed at any time by the government. The government may change the EVMS reporting requirements during the contract period of performance based on external factors or through discussion with the vendor. 




Technologies & Products   in Use

The contractor will be required to develop new systems and new features using the technologies and products listed below. The contractor will also be required to deploy and provide tier 3 support for all products listed below. Some products, primarily those used to support the development process, will be fully supported by the contractor.











Priority

Definition

Service Level Requirement

Emergency

Failure in one or more critical DS systems or processes

Emergency tickets must be responded to within 4 hours and status provided every two hours

Urgent

Significant loss of functionality

Urgent tickets must be responded to within 12 working hours and status updates provided every 4 hours

Routine

Default

Routine tickets should be identified in SOP for level 1 and 2 service desk to support in the operational environment

Directed

Urgent action mandated but does not meet objective criterion above

Treated like Urgent



Reference Section #

Deliverable Title

#Calendar Days After Award or Other

Requirement

Standard

6.2.1

Contract Management Plan

Draft – 30 days after award, Final –45 day after award

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

4.1.3, 6.2.2

In Progress Review Report

Monthly, on 10th calendar day

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.3

Project Plan

Initiated at the beginning of each approved project and updated monthly throughout the project lifecycle

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.4

System Documentation as specified in the CTO Project Lifecycle (PLC) and approved by the Government during each project’s Initiation Phase

Per each project’s approved Individual Project Tailoring Form or as otherwise authorized/required

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.5

As-built design documents for systems developed, modernized or enhanced.

Per each project’s approved Individual Project Tailoring Plan or as otherwise authorized/required

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

N/A

Weekly activity reports

Provided to FTE functional managers weekly every Wednesday

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.6

Meeting Minutes

3 business days after each technical or project meeting

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.7

Quality Control Plan

With Proposal – update within 15 calendar days after contract award

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

6.2.8

Subcontract Plan

With proposal

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)

N/A

All developed, modified and configured software created under this contract must be received in electronic format

Per each project’s approved Individual Project Tailoring Form or as otherwise authorized/required

Deliverables are high quality and complete

Deliverables are written clearly and concisely, providing DoS stakeholders a clear understanding of all deliverables. 



Final documentation must be in Microsoft Suite:  Word 2007, Excel 2007, Visio 2007, Project Pro 2010 or current DoS version. (Solutions developed will be delivered an the agreed upon programming language and format)



Final documentation must be spell checked, grammar checked, and accepted by the Government. (Excluding developed code)



Name

Notes

Java

Programming Language

.Net

Programming Language

Delphi

Programming Language

ColdFusion

Programming Language

ASP

Programming Language

PL/SQL

Programming Language

MS Biztalk

Product

Metastorm BPM

Product

Oracle DBMS

Product

MS SQL Server

Product

StopWare PassagePoint

Product

SharePoint

Product

SAP Business Objects

Product

Oracle Siebel CRM

Product

Oracle Internet Application Server

Product

Apache Web Server

Product

MS IIS Web Server

Product

Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC)

Product

IBM InfoSphere: Data Stage/Quality Stage/Fast Trac

Product

HP Autonomy Search



VMware

Product

ESRI ArcGis Server

Product

MS ISA Firewall (ForeFront)

Product

Bugzilla

Product

SubVersion

Product




                                                                   ATTACHMENT 3

|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE                                                                                                                                            |
|Your assistance is requested in support of a source selection.                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|Please complete this Questionnaire and email or send by facsimile [FAX 703-875-5060] to:                                                                             |
|                                                                                  | Desired Response Date:  Within 5 days of receipt                                 |
|Attn: David R. Marr                                                               |                                                                                  |
|marrdr@state.gov                                                                  |                                                                                  |
|(703) 875-6056                                                                    |                                                                                  |
|Wrt: DOS Solicitation SAQMMA11R0001                                               |                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|When complete, the information on this form is SOURCE SELECTION SENSITIVE INFORMATION (41 U.S.C. 423) and shall be protected accordingly.                            |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR                                                                                                                                           |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|1.  CONTRACTOR NAME & ADDRESS:                                                         |2.  CONTRACT NO.:                                                            |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |3.  CONTRACT INITIATION DATE:                                                |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |4.  COMPLETION DATE:                                                         |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |5.  CONTRACT VALUE (with options): $                                         |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                       |6.  TYPE OF CONTRACT:                                                        |
|                                                                                       |                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|7.  DESCRIPTION OF CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS:                                                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|Please add a continuation page if additional space necessary.                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|TO BE COMPLETED BY EVALUATING ORGANIZATION REPRESENTATIVE                                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|8.  EVALUATION:  a. EVALUATOR'S NAME, POSITION (Project Manager/ COR/ Other) AND ORGANIZATION:                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|b. EVALUATOR'S PHONE NUMBER:                                                                      c.  MONTHS PERFORMANCE MONITORED BY EVALUATOR:                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|Please circle the response code for each topic (A – G) that best reflects your experience with this contractor.                                                      |
|O = Outstanding                          |A = Adequate                             |P = Poor                                 |                                         |
|E = Excellent                            |M = Marginal                             |N/O = Not Observed                       |                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|A. Quality of Products and Services - Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g.,         |
|technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|B. Performance – Assess the contractor’s performance as the Prime Contractor or Sub-contractor (as appropriate) for the project.                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|C. Schedule – Assess the timeliness of contractor performance against the schedule of required activities.                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|D. Technical Requirements – Assess the contractor’s ability to fulfill the technical requirements of the contract.                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|E.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s ability to manage the contract budget and control costs.                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|F. Customer Satisfaction – Assess the contractor’s responsiveness to customer concerns and “user friendliness”.                                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                     |
|G.  Overall Assessment.                                                                                                                                              |
|  O E A M P N/O                                                                                                                                                      |
|If an Award Fee contract, what was the average Award Fee % earned?                                                                                                   |














FAR 52.252-1  SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed

by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer.  Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed

electronically at this/these address(es):



FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR):





(End of provision)



FAR 52.252-2/DOSAR 252.252-02	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation/contract incorporates one or more provisions/clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a provision/clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):



FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR):





DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATION (DOSAR):





(End of provision)



SECTION B – SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COST



LABOR CATEGORIES:



Below  is the hourly rate schedule for the base year and 4 options years. Billing shall be in accordance with this rate schedule. The Government may require up to the hours designated below or may require more up to the yearly ceiling if and to the extent that the Ceiling is funded. 



CONTRACT LINE ITEMS:

PRICING – BASE YEAR (___________through__________): 

(To be completed at time of award.)























GRAND TOTAL: BASE YEAR AND 4 OPTION YEARS (ALL CLINS)  		$_________________

 PROPOSED MARK UP ON TRAVE/ODCS/MISC MATERIALS       ____%







TIME AND MATERIAL BILLING RATES SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED YEARLY HOURS

The offers must complete the following Labor Category Rate Schedule. Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the estimated skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations must be fully explained.   The hours set forth herein are estimates and may vary in actual performance.   



BASE YEAR





                    TOTAL ESTIMATED BASE LABOR CLIN 0003:    		                   $________________          





OPTION YEAR 1





                    TOTAL ESTIMATED OPTION YEAR 1 LABOR CLIN 1003:          $________________          











OPTION YEAR 2





                    TOTAL ESTIMATED OPTION YEAR 2  LABOR CLIN 2003:          $________________          







OPTION YEAR 3

  



              TOTAL ESTIMATED OPTION YEAR 3 LABOR CLIN 3003:          $________________          





OPTION YEAR 4





                    TOTAL ESTIMATED OPTION YEAR 4  LABOR CLIN 4003:          $________________          





B.1      GENERAL REQUIREMENTS



This contract for Development, Modernization and Enhancement (DME) services to be performed for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS), U.S. Department of State (DoS).  











B.2      PRICING STRUCTURE



Set forth above are Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs) for the execution of the DME services.  Exercise of options shall be in accordance with FAR 52.217-9, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (see Section I).



CLINs All CLINs, including Option Items (to the extent exercised), will be paid monthly and invoiced in accordance with Section G.3 of this contract.  



CLINs 003 through 040 and to the extent exercised, Option Items 103 through 140, 203 through 240, 303 through 340, 403 through 440, provide for the required travel, other direct costs (ODCs) and necessary material expenses and will be paid as incurred plus an amount determined through application of a contract mark-up rate, and invoiced in accordance with Section G.3.



Time and Material Bill Rate Schedules 



The Billing Rate Schedule above applies to the base and four option periods of the contract. And forms the basis of the estimated lot price for the base year and four option years. The hours established in this schedule are estimates and may vary in actual performance. 



FFP.  CLIN 000 is for the Firm Fixed Price for conducting the single lot of transition support. CLINs 001 through 002, and to the extent exercised, CLINs 101 through 102, 201 through 202, 301 through 302 and 401 through 402, are Firm Fixed Price monthly rates for performance of each of the identified Support Areas for the Base Year and each of the four Option Years.  



T&M.  CLINs 003 and 004  to the extent exercised, CLINs 103,104, 20, 204, 303, 304, 403 and 404  are the T&M CLINs for each of the identified Support Areas for the Base Year and each of the four Option Years.



Travel, ODCs and Materials.  The Travel and ODC line items are  not-to-exceed amounts established by the DoS.  The amount may be adjusted, if needed, during the performance of the contract.  Charges for these items will be incurred and reimbursed as set forth clause B.5 below.   



Other Direct Costs (ODCs) 



The contractor may be required to utilize direct materials or services in the performance of the required services.  ODC’s do not include purchase or leasing of hardware, software, equipment, furnishings, facilities, etc. for the Department of State.  ODC’s are included in a separate CLIN in the pricing tables.  The contractor will be reimbursed for direct materials and services in accordance with FAR Clause 52.232-7, referenced in this section.  The use of subcontractors shall be at the discretion of the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).  



Direct materials are defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause 52.232-7, Payments Under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts, as those materials which enter directly into the end product, or which are used or consumed directly in connection with the furnishing of the end product.  





B.3     CEILING/MINIMUM PRICE (TIME AND MATERIALS/LABOR HOUR CONTRACT) (MAY 1995)



(a)	The ceiling prices of the Time and Materials/Labor Hour and ODCs CLINs of this contract are as set forth below and apply to the base Items and, to the extent exercised, the Option Items:



	CLIN			Ceiling Price		

	0003 and 0004	             TBD 

	1003 and1004		   TBD

	2003 and 2004	              TBD

	3003 and 3004	              TBD

	4003 and 4004	              TBD		

	

	 

(b)	If this contract includes options and a ceiling price is specified for each option, each ceiling price shall apply separately and independently to that option.  The Contractor shall not exceed the ceiling prices of this contract except as provided in FAR 52.232-7, Payments Under Time and Materials and Labor Hour Contracts.



(c)	Notwithstanding the above, if this contract is funded below the ceiling price(s), the Contractor shall not exceed the funded amount(s).











B.4      RATE FOR TIME AND MATERIAL/LABOR HOUR CONTRACT ITEMS (MAY 1995)



(a)	The labor rates set forth in the Billing Rate Schedule above are fixed hourly rates for work at any of the Government’s worksites and include the following: wages, indirect costs (including overhead, fringe benefits, general and administrative expenses) and profit.



(b)	In accordance with FAR 52.232-7, Payments Under Time and Material and Labor-hour Contracts, the Contractor shall only voucher for the time of the personnel whose services are applied directly to the work called for by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) in individual task direction and accepted by the COR.  The Government shall pay the Contractor for the life of a COR-directed task at rates effective when the task direction was given by the COR, unless the contract is modified to incorporate rates adjusted pursuant to FAR 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act - Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts), or FAR 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act - Price Adjustment, as applicable.  The Contractor shall maintain time and labor distribution records for all employees who work under the contract.  These records shall document time worked and work performed by each individual on each directed task.



B.5      TRAVEL COSTS (TIME AND MATERIAL/LABOR HOUR) (NOV 1996)



(a)	Except as otherwise provided herein, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for its reasonable actual travel costs in accordance with its usual accounting practices consistent with FAR Subpart 31.2, specifically FAR 31.205-46.  Travel must be directly related to and required for performance of this contract, and authorized in advance and in writing by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).  In no event shall costs associated with employee commuting be reimbursable as a direct cost under this contract.



(b)	Travel costs shall not be burdened with any indirect costs unless specifically allowable in accordance with the Contractor’s usual accounting practices consistent with FAR 31.2.  In no event shall travel costs be burdened with fee/profit.



(c)	The Contractor shall include a breakout of all authorized travel expenses as an attachment to each invoice submitted for payment.  Administrative support (coordination of travel arrangements, etc.) will be the responsibility of the Contractor.



(d)	Should an Contractor personnel be requested to perform in any area which has been determined by the Department of State to be a hazardous duty area, hazardous duty premium pay will be payable at the same rate as would be given to Department of State direct-hire employees pursuant to Chapter 6450 of the U.S. Department of State Standardized Regulations (Government Civilian, Foreign Areas).  Each employee will be notified upon arrival at any hazardous duty area of the applicable rates, terms and conditions at the time of performance.  Hazardous duty premium pay shall not be burdened with any indirect costs (e.g., overhead, G&A) or fee/profit.



(e)	When local travel between the Contractor employee’s regular place of performance and other locations is specifically authorized by the COR, transportation expenses shall be allowable costs under this contract.  For the purposes of this clause, local travel means travel within a 50 mile radius of the Contractor employee’s regular place of performance and does not include daily commuting or associated costs.



(f)	For travel where use of a personal automobile has been specifically authorized by the COR, reimbursement shall be computed on the basis of actual miles traveled from starting point to destination.  Other related miscellaneous expenses, such as tolls and parking fees, incurred in the performance of tasks authorized under this contract, will be reimbursed.  Car rentals require advance approval by the COR and will be authorized only when consistent with good business practice.  Allowable costs shall not exceed the actual cost of renting a compact automobile (a maximum of one for five Contractor personnel), unless extenuating circumstances (e.g., excess baggage) require other arrangements and subsequent COR approval is obtained.



(g)	The Government will reimburse the Contractor for Contractor employee’s travel time to or from other authorized work locations; except that for labor categories which are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act, a reimbursement will be allowed only for travel during the employee’s regular working hours.  The Contractor will not be reimbursed for time spent in stand-down or temporary layovers for the convenience of the Contractor except as authorized by the Federal Travel Regulations.



(h)	The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that all personnel who will be required to travel outside the United States have current and valid passports.  The Contractor shall also be responsible for obtaining any visas required for travel to foreign countries under this contract.  The Contractor shall make no direct labor charges for obtaining/maintaining passports and/or visas.






SECTION C – DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS



Item 000:  The Contractor shall provide Transition Support services to the DS Bureau in accordance with the Statement of Work provided as Attachment 1 to this contract and all other terms and conditions set forth herein.



CLINs 001 and 002 and   to the extent exercised, CLINs 101,102, 201, 202, 301, 301, 401 and 402 (Firm Fixed Price):  The Contractor shall provide Contract management services to the DS Bureau in accordance with the applicable sections (see the Billing Schedule above for references to pertinent sections) of the Statement of Work provided as Attachment 1 to this contract and all other terms and conditions set forth herein.  The Contractor shall maintain, at a minimum, the same staffing level and skill mix as proposed in the Technical Volume throughout the entire contract performance period, including any exercised option period.   



Items 003 and 004, and to the extent exercised, Option Items 103, 104,203,204,303,304,403, and 404 (T&M Hour):  The Contractor shall provide Development, Modernization and Enhancement support services to the DS Bureau in accordance with the applicable sections (see Bill Rate Schedule for references to pertinent sections) of the Statement of Work provided as Attachment 1 to this contract and all other terms and conditions set forth herein.





C.1	BACKGROUND



The Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) is responsible for providing a safe and secure environment for the conduct of U.S. foreign policy.  Every diplomatic mission in the world operates under a technical, physical and information security program designed and maintained by Diplomatic Security. In the United States, Diplomatic Security manages and supports these worldwide security programs for the protection of Life, Property and Information.  Critical elements in accomplishing this mission are criminal investigations, local/global intelligence threat analysis and reporting, passport and visa fraud investigations, conduct of personnel security investigations, and protection of the Secretary of State and high-ranking foreign dignitaries and officials visiting the United States.  



The DS Office of the Chief Technology Officer (DS/EX/CTO) has the authority and responsibility for managing and implementing the IT program requirements of DS in a manner that facilitates the achievement of Bureau performance goals. The mission of the CTO is to provide effective information resource management for the Bureau: to maximize the accessibility and utility of information for all DS personnel and stakeholders through excellence in service delivery, program management and innovative technology applications.



The CTO provides the resources necessary to collect, assimilate, and distribute the information essential to the Bureau’s primary mission of providing a secure environment for the conduct of American diplomacy and the promotion of U.S. foreign policy worldwide.  



The CTO supports the Bureau’s performance management goals through internal adherence to quality standards in all areas of its operations and is evidenced by their current organizational ISO 9001 Certification.  These standards are required to allow the organization to meet internal performance measures that support federal and Department of State IT management, security and operations policies and regulations.  The accomplishment of the Bureau’s mission is largely supported by the IT applications developed and supported by CTO many of which involve inter-agency discussion and cooperation due to integration requirements.  Innovation is required to support this dynamic environment, where change is a constant, and modernization and improvement projects utilize a blend of custom developed and commercial-off-the-shelf software applications.  These applications are based on a variety of technology platforms with specific capabilities.  To support the diverse requirements of the Bureau, CTO consistently manages up to 75 IT projects on a concurrent basis.



The work referenced in this request is to provide the Bureau of Diplomatic Security with real time services for Development, Modernization and Enhancement of the IT systems that enable the Bureau to conduct Department of State worldwide security and law enforcement missions.  

The scope of this requirement encompasses obtaining the Information Technology (IT) support services necessary to perform in functional areas such as: Project management, Custom software development, Software & product integration and configuration, quality management and assurance, Testing, Requirements gathering and business analysis, Solutions architecture, Strategic planning, System deployment & transition to operations, Training, Technical writing, enterprise architecture, and, to a lesser degree, systems maintenance and operations support. Additionally some limited telecommunications/networking knowledge and Web site support is required. The services acquired also include the program management and administrative support necessary for the preparation and update of systems documentation and related services.



C.1.2	SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS



All electronic and information technology (EIT) products and services produced or procured through this contract must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at .  







C.1.3.  	Government-Supplied Services and Equipment



For Contractor personnel performing the work hereunder on Government premises, the Government shall provide: on-site office, furniture, telephone service, and other associated utilities, supplies and equipment.



C.2	INCORPORATION OF CONTRACTOR’S TECHNICAL PROPOSAL



(a)	The Contractor shall perform this contract in accordance with its technical proposal dated ____TBD________ and any revisions thereto submitted in response to Solicitation SAQMMA12R0381.



(b)	The Contractor’s technical proposal or any part thereof may be incorporated into the contract by reference and thereby made subject to the provisions of the Order of Precedence clause in Section I of this contract.  Under the Order of Precedence clause, all or any portion of the Contractor’s technical proposal incorporated into the contract shall follow “the specifications” in the order of precedence.



C.3	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



In accordance with FAR 52.252-2 and DOSAR 252.252-02, the following clause(s) are incorporated into this solicitation/contract by reference:



FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CRF CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES



52.204-2	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (AUG 1996)

52.217-8	OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

52.223-6	DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)

52.237-3	CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)

52.243-1	CHANGES—FIXED PRICE (AUG 1987)

52.243-3	CHANGES--TIME-AND-MATERIALS OR LABOR-HOURS (SEP 2000)

52.244-2	SUBCONTRACTS (JUN 2007)

(d)  If the contractor has an approved purchasing system, the contractor nevertheless shall obtain the contracting officer’s written consent before placing the following subcontractors:  ___All subcontracts_______________________



Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this clause do not apply to the following subcontracts, which were evaluated during negotiations:  

		______TBD________________________________________________________



52.245-1	GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (JUNE 2007)

52.246-25	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY—SERVICES (FEB 1997)



DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (DOSAR) CLAUSES



652.237-72 – Observance of Legal Holidays and Administrative Leave (APR 2004)



SECTION D - PACKAGING OR MARKING



All deliverables provided hereunder shall be packaged and marked to ensure secure, safe and complete arrival at destination.



SECTION E – INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



E.1	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



In accordance with FAR 52.252-2 and DOSAR 252.252-02, the following clause(s) are incorporated into this solicitation/contract by reference.










SECTION F – DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



F.1	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



In accordance with FAR 52.252-2 and DOSAR 252.252-02, the following clause(s) are incorporated into this solicitation/contract by reference.





F.2	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



This contract shall be effective on the date of the Contracting Officer’s signature, and shall remain in effect until one year from date of Award (end of the base period).  The period of performance is for a one-year base period and four one-year options as shown below:



Base Period		Date of Contract Award (DCA) through 12 months after DCA

Option Year One	12 months after DCA through 24 months after DCA

Option Year Two	24 months after DCA through 36 months after DCA

Option Year Three	36 months after DCA through 48 months after DCA

Option Year Four	48 months after DCA through 60 months after DCA



F.3	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The principal place of performance for this contract effort will be:



	U.S. Department of State

	1801 N. Lynn Street

	Arlington, Virginia 22209



From time to time, and as necessary, other U.S. Department of State and Military District of Washington locations throughout the Metro Washington, DC area and the contractor’s facility will be places of performance for effort provided under this contract.  Work that may be required at the contractor’s facility must be authorized by the COR in advance of work being performed.   On occasion, U.S. Department of State posts worldwide may also be places of performance under this contract.  



Should work at contractor site be authorized, the contractor must perform work authorized in a secure facility following DoS policies for a development network within a 50 mile radius of Diplomatic Security’s headquarters located at the address above. Contractor personnel shall not work from home unless advance written authorization has been granted by the DS Chief Technology Officer, the COR, and the CO.  Emergency on-call personnel may work from home via the Global OpenNet (GO) system to respond to emergencies as long as system administration privileges are not required for the work.  In these situations, the employee must send an email to their FTE managers and the COR explaining the emergency and length of time they were required to work from home in response to the emergency. Supporting information such as ticket numbers should be included in the email along with incident summary, outcome, lessons learned and recommendations.



DoS Working Hours:



The normal Department of State working hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.  Contractor resources assigned to performance at DoS locations shall be available within the normal working hours, unless otherwise approved by the COR. 







F.4	DELIVERABLES



Deliverables



Point of Delivery for Deliverables:



Unless otherwise noted, contractor deliverables shall be submitted to the COR.



Summary of Deliverables:



The summary of deliverables is outlined in the SOW.



Standards for Acceptance of Deliverables:



Acceptance of all written documents and other deliverables shall be based upon DS/CTO COR review and approval.

All document deliverables, other than monthly progress reports, shall first be submitted in draft form to the COR.  The Department will have ten (10) working days to determine the acceptability of all completed drafts.  If the DoS COR suggests changes to the first draft, the contractor shall submit a corrected draft for further review.  Unless valid justification is given to the contrary, the contractor shall incorporate the changes recommended by the COR in its respective final documents and reports.  If DoS COR comments given do not conform to safe and ethical business practices, or are deemed technically unsound, it shall be the responsibility of the contractor to advise the DoS COR.  The corrected document shall be resubmitted to the COR for final approval within five (5) working days after receipt of Department comments.



Format/Content of Deliverables:



In addition to being provided in hard copy, all documents shall be delivered in electronic copy in Microsoft Office and /or Adobe PDF format.  The contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer a copy of the letter transmitting each deliverable to the COR.  The COR will review each deliverable and provide a response to the contractor in a timely manner that does not impede contractor performance.  If the COR does not provide a timely response, the contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer in writing.



F.5	FINAL REPORT



“Final Report” – In conjunction with the submission of a final invoice, the Contractor shall submit three copies of the final report to the Program Office not more than 30 calendar days after the expiration of the final contract period of performance. A copy of the final report shall be submitted to both the COR and the Contracting Officer.






SECTION G – CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA



G.1	DOSAR 652.242-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (AUG 1999) (ACQ STANDARD FORMAT) (09/99)



(a)	The contracting officer may designate in writing one or more Government employees, by name and position title, to take action for the contracting officer under this contract.  Each designee shall be identified as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).  Such designation(s) shall specify the scope and limitations of the authority so delegated; provided, that the designee shall not change the terms or conditions of the contract, unless the COR is a warranted contracting officer and this authority is delegated in the designation.



(b)	The COR is identified below under G.2 “GOVERNMENT CONTACT INFORMATION."



G.2	GOVERNMENT CONTACT INFORMATION



Contracting Officer:		Vince J. Chaverini, Jr.

				(703) 875-6645



Acquisition Analyst:		Don Monaco

				(703) 875-4835

				monacofd@state.gov



Contracting Officer’s 		

Representative (COR):	Mya Hlaing    (571) 345-2324

				hlaingmn@state.gov

Addresses:



First Class Mailing:		 Department of State

				Office of Acquisition Management

				 9115, Rosslyn Station

				



Courier or Hand Delivery	 Department of State

				c/o Don Monaco (703) 875-4835

				Room 3224, SA-15

1800 N. Kent Street

				

				

(Corner of 19th and Kent Streets in Rosslyn)





G.3 INVOICE PAYMENT – DOS (10/11)





G.4	LIMITATION OF FUNDS 



		DOSAR 652.232-72 Limitation of Funds (AUG 1999)



(a)  Of the total price in Section B (or the "Prices" section), only the amount stated on the contract award document or subsequent modifications is now available for payment and obligated.  It is anticipated that from time to time, additional funds will be obligated under the contract until the total price of the task/delivery order is obligated.



(b)  The Government is not obligated to pay or reimburse the contractor more than the amount obligated pursuant to this clause.  The contractor agrees to perform the contract up to the point at which the total amount paid and payable by the Government (including amounts payable for subcontracts and settlement costs if this contract is terminated for convenience) approximates but does not exceed the total amount obligated.



(c)	(1) It is contemplated that funds now obligated under this contract will cover the work to be performed (TBD at time of award).

	(2)  If the contractor considers the funds obligated under this contract to be insufficient to cover the work to be performed until that date, or another date agreed to by the parties, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing and indicate the date on which it expects expended funds to approximate 75 percent of the total amount obligated.  The notice shall state the estimated amount of additional funds required to continue performance through the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause or another date agreed to by the parties.

	(3)  If, after notification is provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this clause, additional funds are not obligated, or an earlier date than the date in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause is not agreed to, the contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance under this contract (including actions under the termination clause of this contract) beyond the funds obligated for contract performance.



(d)  When additional funds are obligated from time to time for continued performance of this contract, the contract shall be modified to increase the funds obligated and to indicate the period of performance for which funds are applicable.  The contractor may notify the contracting officer as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this clause regarding any additional funds obligated.



(e)  If the contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the performance of work under this contract, solely by reason of the Government's failure to obligate additional funds in amounts sufficient for the timely performance of this contract, an equitable adjustment may be made to the price, or time of delivery, or both.



(f)  This clause shall become inoperative upon obligation of funds sufficient to cover the full price stated in the contract, except for rights and obligations then existing under this clause.



(g)  Nothing in this clause shall affect the Government's right to terminate the contract for convenience or default.





SECTION H – SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS



H.1	ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST



The contractor warrants that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances which would give rise to an organizational conflict of interest, as defined in FAR Subpart 9.5, or that the contractor has disclosed all such relevant information.



The contractor agrees that if an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest is discovered after award, the contractor will make a full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions that the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid or mitigate the actual or potential conflict.



If the contractor was aware of a potential organizational conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclosure or misrepresented relevant information to the contracting officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default.



The contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts.



H.2	SAFEGUARDING OF INFORMATION 



The contractor and its employees should exercise the utmost discretion in regard to all matters relating to their duties and functions. They should not communicate to any person any information known to them by reason of their performance of services under this contract which has not been made public, except in the necessary performance of their duties or upon written authorization of the contracting officer. All documents and records (including photographs) generated during the performance of work under this contract should be for the sole use of and become the exclusive property of the  Government.  



Furthermore, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance, film or photograph concerning any aspect of work performed under this contract should be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the contracting officer.  These obligations do not cease upon the expiration or termination of this contract. The contractor shall include the substance of this provision in all contracts of employment and in all subcontracts hereunder.



H.3    NONPAYMENT FOR UNAUTHORIZED WORK                 MAY 1995



No payments will be made for any unauthorized supplies or services or for any unauthorized changes to the work specified herein.  This includes any services performed by the Contractor of his own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer.  Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and/or conditions of this contract.



H.4	TECHNICAL DIRECTION



Performance of the work hereunder shall be subject to technical instructions, whether oral or written, issued by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) specified in SECTION G of this contract.  As used herein, technical instructions are defined to include the following:



Directions to the Contractor which suggest pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, change work emphasis, fill in details or otherwise serve to assist in the Contractor’s accomplishment of the Statement of Work.

Guidance to the Contractor which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of work description.

    

Technical instructions must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract. 



 Technical instructions may not be used to:

Assign additional work under the contract;

Direct a change as defined in the “Changes” clause of this contract;

Increase or decrease the contract price or estimated contract amount (including fee), as applicable, the level of effort, or the time required for contract performance; or

Change any of the terms, conditions or specifications of contract.



If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any technical instruction calls for effort outside the scope of the contract or is inconsistent with this requirement, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing within ten working days after the receipt of any such instruction.  The Contractor shall not proceed with the work affected by the technical instruction unless and until the Contractor is notified by the Contracting Officer that the technical instruction is within the scope of this contract.



Nothing in the foregoing paragraph shall be construed to excuse the Contractor from performing that portion of the contractual work statement which is not affected by the disputed technical instruction.



H.5	SMOKE-FREE WORKPLACE NOTICE	(MAY 1995)



The Department of State has been designated a smoke-free workplace.



Definitions. “Smoking” means a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other tobacco product.  “Smoking Areas” means those designated exterior spaces where the smoking of tobacco products is permitted.



Applicability.  The Smoke-Free Workplace policy applies to all occupants of the Main State Complex; as well as all Department of State occupied space in other domestic buildings, whether owned, rented or leased, and to all Department of State owned, rented or leased vehicles.



Policy.  It is the policy of the Department of State to promote a healthy environment.  Accordingly, the Department has adopted a policy prohibiting smoking in the interior of all domestic buildings and facilities effective August 1, 1993.



H.6 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS



a)  A facility security clearance at the TOP SECRET level is required for contract performance in accordance with the DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification, attached to this contract. Specifically designated personnel shall be eligible for Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) access.

(b)  Since it will be necessary for some Contractor personnel to have access to classified material and/or to enter into areas requiring a security clearance, each Contractor employee requiring such access must have an individual security clearance commensurate with the required level of access prior to contract performance. Individual clearances shall be maintained for the duration of employment under this contract, or until access requirements change.
(c)  The Contractor shall obtain a Department of State building pass for all employees performing under this contract who require frequent and continuing access to Department of State facilities in accordance with Bureau of Diplomatic Security Instructions.  

(d)  Performance of this contract shall be in accordance with the attached DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification and FAR 52.204-2 "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS."
(e)  Classified material received or generated in the performance of this contract shall be safeguarded and disposed of in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DOD 5220.22-M).





H.7  652.204-70 Department of State Personal Identification Card Issuance Procedures.



Department of State Personal Identification Card Issuance Procedures (MAY 2011)



(a) The Contractor shall comply with the Department of State (DOS) Personal Identification Card Issuance Procedures for all employees performing under this contract who require frequent and continuing access to DOS facilities, or information systems.  The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s employees will require frequent and continuing access to DOS facilities, or information systems.  



The DOS Personal Identification Card Issuance Procedures may be accessed at  .	



(End of clause)



H. 8   ADVERTISING OF AWARD



The contractor shall not allow the existence of this contract or the names, phone number, etc. of Government employees involved in this contract, to be used for publicity or advertising purposes.  Further, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance and/or film concerning any aspect of work performed under this contract shall be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the contracting officer.



H.9   ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS



All contractor personnel assigned to this Contract who require access to classified information, are assigned to areas where access to classified information cannot be precluded, or are assigned to the specific duties described herein, must possess a personnel security clearance issued by DSS in accordance with the NISPOM.  Uncleared personnel or personnel who have not successfully passed the NAC will not be assigned to this project.



In the event that the personnel security clearance for an individual assigned to this Contract is rescinded, the individual shall be removed from the Contract and replaced by a substitute acceptable to the Department at no increase in cost or price.  



The contractor shall obtain a Department of State building pass for all employees performing under this Contract who require frequent and continuing access to Department of State facilities in accordance with DOSAR 652.204-70 "Department of State Personal Identification Card Issuance Procedures."



All personnel who resign, are transferred, terminated, or otherwise removed from the Contract shall be debriefed by the Information System Security Officer (ISSO) on the last day of work on site and shall turn in their DoS badge to the ISSO.  The visitor authorization request previously sent to DS/SI/IND must be cancelled.  Each employee under this Contract is individually responsible for the protection of information and shall be required to sign an agreement regarding the confidentiality of the work performed under this Contract.  



The Contractor shall:

Comply with all DoS guidelines to protect classified and sensitive information and equipment; 

Comply with all Department of State policies and guidance pertaining to Automated Information Systems;

Ensure that all personnel adhere to SOP instructions provided by the COMSEC Custodian/Security Manager;  

Ensure that all personnel assigned to the Contract, at a minimum, have the ability to obtain a DoS Building Pass;



The Government will:

Identify the security clearance level and other accesses required for each position.

Provide the contractor with any other special security requirements in writing, as required.



H.10	KEY PERSONNEL (02/96)

The Contractor shall assign Key Personnel who are dedicated to this contract 100% of the time.  Key personnel shall include qualified employees who meet the qualifications of the positions included in the offeror’s technical proposal. 

The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following key personnel:

     LABOR CATEGORY 	       						          NAME

(1) Program Manager							_________________

(5) Project Management Support						_________________

_________________

_________________

_________________

_________________

(1) IT Program Planning Support						_________________

(1) Senior Database Developer						_________________

(1) Senior Java Developer							_________________

(1) Senior CRM Specialist						_________________ 

(1) Senior Integration Specialist						_________________

(1) Senior Reports Developer 						_________________

(1) Senior BPM Developer						_________________

(1) Quality Manager							_________________ 

(1) Database Management Support					_________________ 



 (c) The Contractor agrees that a partial basis for award of this contract is the list of key personnel proposed.  Accordingly, the Contractor agrees to assign to this contract those key persons whose resumes were submitted with the proposal necessary to fulfill the requirements of the contract.  No substitution shall be made without prior notification to and concurrence of the Contracting Officer.  During the first ninety days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment.

(d) All proposed substitutes shall meet or exceed the qualifications of the person to be replaced.  The Contracting Officer shall be notified in writing of any proposed substitution at least forty-five days, or ninety days if a security clearance is to be obtained, in advance of the proposed substitution. Such notification shall include: (1) an explanation of the circumstances necessitating the substitution; (2) a complete resume of the proposed substitute; and (3) any other information requested by the Contracting Officer to enable him to judge whether or not the Contractor is maintaining the same high quality of personnel that provided the partial basis for award.

(e) This clause, listing the appropriate Key Personnel, shall be included in each sub-contract issued under this contract, tailored as appropriate.

(end of clause)



H.11	OPERATION OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES



The contractor shall provide/designate two persons to act as a primary and an alternate driver/operator of Government vehicles (vans, light trucks, cars) as part of the support provided throughout the life of this contract.  Each designated individual shall possess a clean driving record and qualify and pass any examination required to obtain and maintain a Government driver’s license.  Additionally, each individual so designated shall be approved by the COR prior to operating a Government vehicle. 



H.12 OPTION EXERCISE PERIODS



The Government has the right up until the last day of performance of the previous service year to exercise any of the option CLINs (Option Years 1, 2, 3, and 4) in whole or in part at the prices and/or  rates set forth in section B. 















SECTION I – CONTRACT CLAUSES



I.1  52.252-2	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

 

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): 



FAR:		

DOSAR:	



(End of Clause)



The following FAR or DOSAR clauses are incorporated by reference:



	52.202-1 	DEFINITIONS (JUL 2004) 

	52.203-3 	GRATUITIES (APR 1984) 

	52.203-5	COVENANT AGAINST CONTIGENT FEES (APR 1984)

	52.203-6	RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR (SEPT 2006)

			SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT

	52.203-7	ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010)

	52.203-8	CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY

			OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)

	52.203-10	PRICE OR FEE ADJUSTMENT FOR ILLEGAL OR

			IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)

52.203-11	CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007)

	52.203-12	LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE 

CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (OCT 2010) 

52.203-13	CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010)

	52.204-2	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (AUG 1996) 

52.204-7	CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

52.204-9	PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011)

52.204-10	REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (JUL 2010)

52.209-5	CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (APR 2010)

	52.209-6	PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT’S INTEREST 

WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (DEC 2010) 

52.209-9	UPDATES OF PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JAN 2011)

52.215-2	AUDIT AND RECORDS-NEGOTIATION (OCT 2010) 

52.215-8	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997)

	52.215-19	NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT 1997)

52.215-21	REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA-MODIFICATIONS (OCT 1997)

52.216-7	ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002) 

	52.216-22	INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995)

52.217-8  	OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

52.217-9	OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONRACT (MAR 2000)

	52.219-8  	UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (MAY 2004)

52.219-14	LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)

	52.222-1	NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES (FEB 1997)

	52.222-3	CONVICT LABOR (JUNE 2003)

	52.222-21	PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)	

52.222-26	Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)

	52.222-35	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS (SEP 2010)

52.222-36	Affirmative Action for Workers 

			with Disabilities (OCT 2010) 

52.222-37	EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON VETERANS (sep 2010)

	52.222-41	Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007)

52.222-43	FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT-PRICE ADJUSTMENT (MULTIPLE YEAR AND OPTION CONTRACTS) (sep 2009)

52.222-50	COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)

52.222-54	EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JAN 2009)

52.223-6	DRUG FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)

52.223-18	ENCOURAGING CONTRACTOR POLICIES TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (AUG 2011)

	52.225-13	RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)

52.227-1	AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT (DEC 2007)

52.227-2	NOTICE AND ASSISTANCE REGARDING PATENT AND COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (DEC 2007)

52.227-14	RIGHTS IN DATA-GENERAL (DEC 2007)

52.228-5	INSURANCE-WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION (JAN 1997)

52.229-3	FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL TAXES (apr 2003)

52.232-1	PAYMENTS (APR 1984)

52.232-7	PAYMENTS UNDER TIME AND MATERIAL AND LABOR-HOUR CONTRACTS (FEB 2007)

	52.232-8	DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (FEB 2002)

	52.232-11	EXTRAS (APR 1984)

	52.232-17	INTEREST (JUNE 1996)

	52.232-23	ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986)

	52.232-25	PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2003)

52.232-33	PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER – CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)

52.232-35	DESIGNATION of Office for Government Receipt of Electronic Funds Transfer Information (may 1999)

	52.233-1	DISPUTES (JULY 2002) - ALTERNATE I (DEC 1991)

	52.233-3	PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996) 

	52.233-4	APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT (AUG 1996)

52.237-2	PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT AND VEGETATION (APR 1984)

	52.242-1	NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS (APR 1984)

	52.242-13	BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)

	52.243-1	CHANGES-FIXED PRICE (AUG 1987) – ALTERNATE I   (APR 1984)

52.243-3	CHANGES – TIME-AND-MATERIALS OR LABOR-HOURS (SEP 2000) 

	52.244-2	SUBCONTRACTS (JUN 2007)

	52.244-6	SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2007)

	52.246-20	WARRANTY OF SERVICES (MAY 2001)

52.247-21	CONTRACTOR LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY AND/OR PROPERTY DAMAGE (APR 1984)

	52.249-4	TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT

			(SERVICES)(SHORT FORM)(APR 1984)

	52.249-8	DEFAULT (FIXED PRICE SUPPLY AND SERVICE) (APR 1984)

	52.253-1	COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)

            652.204-70

652.225-71	SECTION 8(a) OF THE EXPORT ADMIN ACT OF 1979, AS AMENDED (AUG 1999) 

	652.232-70	PAYMENT SCHEDULE AND INVOICE SUBMISSION

			(FIXED-PRICE) (AUG 1999)

	652.242-70	CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (AUG 1999)



I-2	52.204-1	Approval of Contract (DEC 1989)



This contract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer and shall not be binding until so approved. 



I.3	52.222-42  STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES (MAY 1989)



In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5. U.S.C. 5341 or 5332.

				

THIS STATEMENT IS FOR INFORMATION ONLY:  IT IS NOT A WAGE DETERMINATION

Employee Class Monetary Wage-Fringe Benefits



			ANNUAL SALARY RATE TABLE



	 STEP      STEP      STEP     STEP      STEP     STEP     STEP     STEP    STEP     STEP

    	    1              2             3	 4              5            6             7            8            9           10

GRADE

05	34075	35210	36346	37481	38616	39752	 40887	 42022	43158	44293

07	42209	43616	45024	46431	47838	49246	 50653	 52061	53468	54875

09	51630		53350     55070     56791      58511     60232    61952     63673   65393     67114

11	62467     64548     66630     68712      70794     72876    74958     77040   79122     81204

12	74872     77368     79864     82359      84855     87350    89846     92341   94837     97333

13	89033     92001     94969     97936    100904   103872  106839   109807 112774   115742 



I.4	52.252-4  Alterations in Contract (Apr 1984) 



Portions of this contract are altered as follows: 

     ______________________________________________
______________________________________________
______________________________________________

(End of clause) 

I.5 52.252-6	AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)



The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the name of the regulation.



(b)  The use in this solicitation or contract of any Department of State Acquisition Regulation   (48 CFR Chapter 6) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION’ after the name of the regulation.



(End of Clause)






SECTION J – LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



Attachment 1:	DS DME Statement of Work (SOW) for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security	

Attachment 2:	Contract Security Classification Specification, DD Form 254

Attachment 3:	Past Performance Survey


	

SECTION K – REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 				  		STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS



K.1 52.252-01	SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address (es):



 



 



The following FAR clauses are incorporated by reference:



52.204-7	CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

52.250-2	SAFETY ACT COVERAGE NOT APLICABLE (NOV 2007)



K.2 52.204-08	ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (MAY 2011)



(a)  (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541511.

	(2) The small business size standard is $25.5 million.

 	(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

(b)	(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies.

	(2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:

	[ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies.

	[ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation.

(c)	(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:

		(i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination.

	This provision applies to solicitations when a firm fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless—

		(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13;

		(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or

		(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.

	(ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000.

	(iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration.

	(iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that—

		(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns;

		(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and

		(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

	(v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, or 2010.

	(vi) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

	(vii) 52.214-14, Place of Performance—Sealed Bidding.  This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government.

	(viii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government.

	(ix) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

		(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard.

		(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

	(x) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

	(xi) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.

	(xii) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.

	(xiii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items.

	(xiv) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA–designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.

	(xv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA–designated items.

 	(xvi) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1.

	(xvii) 52.225-4, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3.

		(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. 

		(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies.

		(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies.

	(xviii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5.

	(xix) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations.

	(xx) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran-Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations.

	(xxi) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to—

		(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and

		(B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns.



	(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer:

	__ 	(i) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status.

		__  (A) Basic.

		__  (B) Alternate I.

	__ (ii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.

	__ (iii) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification.

	__ (iv) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services–Certification.

	__ (v) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Products (Alternate I only).

	__ (vi) 52.227-6, Royalty Information.

		__  (A) Basic.

		__  (B) Alternate I.

	__ (vii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.



(d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http:/orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the

representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified

below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current,

accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

			FAR Clause #               Title                 Date                  Change



		__________             __________       _________       _____________



Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. 



(End of provision)



K.3  52.209-7  INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JAN 2011)



(a) Definitions. As used in this provision—

“Administrative proceeding” means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of  deliverables. 

“Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000” means—

	(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and

	(2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).

“Principal” means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions).

(b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000.

(c) If the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by  submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance

and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information:

	(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions:

		(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.

		(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.

		(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in—

		(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or 

		(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.

		(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision.

	(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.

(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at http://www.ccr.gov (see 52.204-7).



(End of provision)



K.4  652.225-70  Arab League Boycott of Israel (AUG 1999)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision:

“Foreign person” means any person other than a United States person as defined below.

“United States person” means any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern), and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as provided under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.

(b) Certification. By submitting this offer, the offeror certifies that it is not:

(1) Taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the boycott of Israel by Arab League countries, which Section 8(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2407(a)) prohibits a United States person from taking; or,

(2) Discriminating in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion.

(End of provision)

 

K.5	52.219-1   Small Business Program Representations (May 2004) 



(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541511. 

(2) The small business size standard is $25M. 

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Representations. 

(1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it _____ is, _____ is not a small business concern. 

(2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it _____ is, _____ is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it _____ is, _____ is not a women-owned small business concern. 

(4) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it _____ is, _____ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(5) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it _____ is, _____is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It _____ is, ____ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It _____ is, _____ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: _________________________________________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(c) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) “Service-disabled veteran” means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

(d) Notice. 

(1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. 

(2) Under , any person who misrepresents a firm’s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall— 



(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; 

(ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and 

(iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. 

(End of provision) 

K.6	52.222-25	Affirmative Action Compliance (Apr 1984) 



The offeror represents that— 

(a) It _____ has developed and has on file, _____ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or 

(b) It _____ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(End of provision) 

K.7	52.223-13   CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003) 



(a) Executive Order 13148, of April 21, 2000, Greening the Government through Leadership in Environmental Management, requires submission of this certification as a prerequisite for contract award. 

(b) By signing this offer, the offeror certifies that— 

(1) As the owner or operator of facilities that will be used in the performance of this contract that are subject to the filing and reporting requirements described in section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) () and section 6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) (), the offeror will file and continue to file for such facilities for the life of the contract the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form (Form R) as described in sections 313(a) and (g) of EPCRA and section 6607 of PPA; or 

(2) None of its owned or operated facilities to be used in the performance of this contract is subject to the Form R filing and reporting requirements because each such facility is exempt for at least one of the following reasons: [Check each block that is applicable.] 

[  ] (i) The facility does not manufacture, process, or otherwise use any toxic chemicals listed in 40 CFR 372.65; 

[  ] (ii) The facility does not have 10 or more full-time employees as specified in section 313(b)(1)(A) of EPCRA, ; 

[  ] (iii) The facility does not meet the reporting thresholds of toxic chemicals established under section 313(f) of EPCRA,  (including the alternate thresholds at 40 CFR 372.27, provided an appropriate certification form has been filed with EPA); 

[  ] (iv) The facility does not fall within the following Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes or their corresponding North American Industry Classification System sectors: 

(A) Major group code 10 (except 1011, 1081, and 1094. 

(B) Major group code 12 (except 1241). 

(C) Major group codes 20 through 39. 

(D) Industry code 4911, 4931, or 4939 (limited to facilities that combust coal and/or oil for the purpose of generating power for distribution in commerce).

(E) Industry code 4953 (limited to facilities regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Subtitle C (, et seq.), or 5169, or 5171, or 7389 (limited to facilities primarily engaged in solvent recovery services on a contract or fee basis); or 

[  ] (v) The facility is not located in the United States or its outlying areas.

(End of provision) 

K.8	652.225-70	Arab League Boycott of Israel (AUG 1999)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision:

“Foreign person” means any person other than a United States person as defined below.

“United States person” means any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern), and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as provided under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.

(b) Certification. By submitting this offer, the offeror certifies that it is not:

(1) Taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the boycott of Israel by Arab League countries, which Section 8(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2407(a)) prohibits a United States person from taking; or,

(2) Discriminating in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion.

(End of provision)

K.9   52.203-7    CERTIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT PRICE DETERMINATION (APR 1985)

(a) The offeror certifies that—

	(1) The prices in this offer have been arrived at independently, without, for the purpose of restricting competition, any consultation, communication, or agreement with any other offeror or competitor relating to—

(i) Those prices;

(ii) The intention to submit an offer; or

(iii) The methods or factors used to calculate the prices offered.



	(2) The prices in this offer have not been and will not be knowingly disclosed by the offeror, directly or indirectly, to any other offeror or competitor before bid opening (in the case of a sealed bid Solicitation) or contract award (in the case of a negotiated solicitation) unless otherwise required by law; and

	(3) No attempt has been made or will be made by the offeror to induce any other concern to submit or not to submit an offer for the purpose of restricting competition.

	(b) Each signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory that the signatory—

	(1) Is the person in the offeror’s organization responsible for determining the prices being offered in this bid or proposal, and that the signatory has not participated and will not participate in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; or

	(2)(i) Has been authorized, in writing, to act as agent for the following principals in certifying that those principals have not participated, and will not participate in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision ____________________ [insert full name of person(s) in the

offeror’s organization responsible for determining the prices offered in this bid or proposal, and the title of his or her position in the offeror’s organization];

	(ii) As an authorized agent, does certify that the principals named in subdivision (b)(2)(i) of this provision have not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; and

	(iii) As an agent, has not personally participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision.

	(c) If the offeror deletes or modifies paragraph (a)(2) of this provision, the offeror must furnish with its offer a signed statement setting forth in detail the circumstances of the disclosure.



(end of provision)




SECTION L:  INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITION, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS



L.1	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



L.1.1	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION CLAUSES



	SOURCE		TITLE AND DATE



52.215-1 	Instructions to Offerors—Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004)

	52.215-16	FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (JUN 2003)

	52.216-17	SINGLE OR MULTIPLE AWARDS (OCT 1995)

52.216-29	TIME-AND-MATERIALS/LABOR-HOUR PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS – NON-COMMERCIAL ITEM ACQUISITION WITH ADEQUATE PRICE COMPETITION (FEB 2007)

	52.222-24	PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE

			EVALUATION (FEB 1999)

	52.222-46	EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL

			EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993)

	52.237-10	IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997)

	52.242-3	PENALTIES FOR UNALLOWABLE COSTS (MAY 2001)

52.243-3	CHANGES – TIME-AND-MATERIALS OR LABOR-HOURS (SEP 2000)



L.1.2	DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 6) CLAUSES



	SOURCE		TITLE AND DATE



652.219-72	DEPARTMENT OF STATE MENTOR-PROTÉGÉ PROGRAM (APR 2004)

652.228-74	DEFENSE BASE ACT INSURANCE RATES – LIMITATION (JUN 2006)

	652.239-70	INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY PLAN AND

			ACCREDITATION (SEP 2007)



L.2	CLAUSES INCORPORATED IN FULL TEXT



L.2.1	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION CLAUSES

L.2.1.1	52.215-20  REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997)  ALT IV

(a) Submission of cost or pricing data is not required.



(b) Provide information described below:



(1) The offeror shall propose firm fixed prices or fixed labor rates, as required, for all Section B Items and their corresponding out-year Option Items (except Items 0004 and their corresponding out-year Option Items).



(2) Breakout for Section B  Price Proposal.  The Offeror shall submit information other than cost or pricing data in support of the prices proposed in a separate section in its price proposal volume.



(i) Firm Fixed Prices.  For the prices proposed for FFP Items, the Offeror shall provide their overall proposed pricing strategy and the rationale for its implementation in terms of advantage(s) to the Government.  



(ii) Labor Rates.  The Offeror shall provide a complete list of all proposed labor categories and their associated fully burdened labor rates proposed for all T&M items.  The use of uncompensated overtime is not generally encouraged.  Offerors shall propose all hourly rates based on a 40hour workweek (1,920 hours per year or in accordance with the Offeror’s  Disclosure Statement).  Offeror’s shall propose all hourly rates as off-site rates (working in Government spaces).



(iii) If any labor rate proposed by the Offeror is based on a current GSA Schedule, Offeror will identify the GSA Contract Number and provide a web-link to that contract.  Likewise, if any labor rate proposed by the Offeror is based on a current Forward Pricing Rate Agreement (FPRA), Offeror will identify the agency with which the agreement is made and provide a web-link to that FPRA.



(iv) Other Direct Costs (ODCs). The contractor shall develop and propose a markup rate at the end of the CLIN list in Section B for applying to Travel, ODCs and Material expenses incurred on Items 0004 and their corresponding out-year Option Items.  This rate shall be fixed for the duration of the contract to include option years, if exercised.

 (End of provision) 

L.2.1.2	52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)



The Government contemplates award of a hybrid contract resulting from this solicitation with both Fixed Price line items, Time and Material (T&M) line items for development, modernization and enhancement support services and Cost Reimbursement support items (Travel, ODCs, Material).

(End of provision) 

L.2.1.3	52.233-2 Service of Protest (SEP 2006)  



(a)  Protests, as defined in section  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from :



		Vince J. Chaverini, Jr., Contracting Officer

		Department of State

		A/LM/AQM

		1701 N. Ft, Meter Drive

		SA-6, 2nd floor

		Arlington, VA 22209 



(b)  The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 

(End of provision) 

L.2.1.4	       52.252-3 ALTERATIONS IN SOLICITATION (APR 1984) 



Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: 

_____________________________________________
_____________________________________________
_____________________________________________ 

(End of provision) 



L.2.1.5	52.252-5  Authorized Deviations in Provisions (Apr 1984) 



(a)  The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the date of the provision. 



(b)  The use in this solicitation of any DOSAR (48 CFR Chapter 6) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the name of the regulation. 

(End of provision)

L.2.2	DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 6)  CLAUSES



L.2.2.1	652.206-70 COMPETITION ADVOCATE/OMBUDSMAN (AUG 1999)



(a)  The Department of State’s Competition Advocate is responsible for assisting industry in removing restrictive requirements from Department of State solicitations and removing barriers to full and open competition and use of commercial items. If such a solicitation is considered competitively restrictive or does not appear properly conducive to competition and commercial practices, potential offerors are encouraged to first contact the contracting office for the respective solicitation. If concerns remain unresolved, contact the Department of State Competition Advocate on (703) 516-1693, by fax at (703) 875-6155, or write to: U.S. Department of State, Competition Advocate, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE), Suite 900, SA-27, Washington, DC 20522-2712.



(b)  The Department of State’s Acquisition Ombudsman has been appointed to hear concerns from potential offerors and contractors during the pre-award and post-award phases of this acquisition. The role of the ombudsman is not to diminish the authority of the contracting officer, the Technical Evaluation Panel or Source Evaluation Board, or the selection official. The purpose of the ombudsman is to facilitate the communication of concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations of interested parties to the appropriate Government personnel, and work to resolve them. When requested and appropriate, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of formal contract disputes. Interested parties are invited to contact the contracting activity ombudsman:



Name:		Benita Williams

Title:		Director, Business Operations

		       Bureau of Administration

Address: 	2201 C Street, NW

		    	SA-6

		    	Washington, DC  20520-0000

Phone:	    	703-875-5230

Email:	   	  





For an American Embassy or overseas post, refer to the numbers below for the Department Acquisition Ombudsman. Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations which cannot be resolved at a contracting activity level may be referred to the Department of State Acquisition Ombudsman:



Name:		Benita Williams

Title:		Director, Business Operations

 	    		Bureau of Administration

Address:	1701 N. ft. Myers Drive

			SA-6

			Arlington, VA 22209

Phone:		703-875-5230

Email:		 





 (End of provision)

L.3     STATUS OF PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 



When used in this provision, government-furnished property, government property, and contractor-acquired property are all defined in FAR 45.101.



Potential offerors shall include in their quote or offer:



a.  Whether the offeror’s property management system that will be used on this contract to track government-furnished property and/or contractor-acquired property has been determined to be adequate by a federal property manager.



b.  The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of both the:



(i)	Cognizant Administrative Contracting officer (ACO) responsible for review and the determination of adequacy of the contractor’s property system; and



(ii)	 The cognizant contractor government property manager.



c.  The voluntary consensus standard or industry leading practices and standards to be used in the management of Government property, or existing property management plans, methods, practices or procedures for accounting of property.



L.4     JOINT VENTURE INFORMATION



If two or more parties have formed a partnership or joint venture (see FAR Subpart 9.6), for the purposes of submitting a proposal under this solicitation and, if selected, would perform the contract as a single entity, they must submit, as an attachment to the Cost/Price Proposal, the Corporate Charter, By-Laws, or Joint Venture or Partnership Agreement.  In addition, the teaming arrangements must be identified, company relationships must be fully disclosed and respective responsibilities and method of work must be expressly stipulated.  The joint venture or partnership agreement must include a full discussion of the relationship between the organizations, including identification of the organization, which will have responsibility for negotiation of Task Orders under the resultant contract, which organization will have accounting responsibility, how work will be allocated, and profit or fee, if any, shared.  In addition, the principles to the joint venture or partnership agreement must agree to be jointly and severally liable for the acts or omissions of the other. 



L.5     LETTERS OF COMMITMENT (SUBCONTRACTORS)



The Cost/Price Proposal (Vol. III) must include a letter, on subcontractor letterhead, and signed by an authorized representative of each subcontractor, which specifically indicates the subcontractor's agreement to be included in the offeror's proposed teaming arrangement.



L.6    INFORMATION TO SUPPORT CONSENT TO MAJOR SUBCONTRACTORS



The offeror must address each of the elements in FAR 44.202-2 in order for proposed subcontractors to be considered by the contracting officer for consent of subcontractors to be granted with the initial award.  Offerors with an approved Purchasing System [see FAR 44.305-2(a)] submit a copy of your Administrative Contracting officer approval letter.



L.7    PROPOSAL PREPARATION  SUBMISSION



L.7.1	Organization of Volumes (Price/Business Proposal and Technical Proposal)



Offeror proposals shall be organized in the following volumes:



Volume I	Technical Proposal

		Part A: Technical/Management Approach/Solution/Staffing Plan

		

Volume II	Technical Proposal (cont’d)

		Part B:  Key Personnel Resumes and Commitment Letters

		Part C: Past Performance Profile

		Part D: Socio-Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting

	            Part E: Evidence of having or obtaining the required facility security clearance 

.  

Volume 	Price and Business Proposal 

Tab A:  Pricing Rationale, Support and Assumptions

Tab B:  Completed Section B 

Tab C:  Completed T&M Billing Rate Schedule



L.7.2 	General Content Requirements



Each volume must be separately bound and contain sufficient information to permit a detailed evaluation. Soft binders (spiral/comb bound) are preferred.  



Each page within each volume and section shall be numbered using a consistent numbering scheme.  This scheme shall also be used for all supporting documentation, such as charts, figures, diagrams, etc., that are included in each volume.



There is a forty five (45) page single-sided limit on Volume I, Part A, Technical/Management Approach/Solution/Staffing Plan



There is a forty five (45) page single-sided limit on Volume II, Part B,  Key Personnel Resumes and no page limit on Commitment Letters.



There is an eighteen (18) page single-sided limit on Volume II, Part C, Past Performance.  Past Performance Surveys are excluded from the page count.  The content of the surveys will be evaluated by the Government.



There is a two (3) page single-sided limit on Volume II, Part D, Socio-Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting.  



There is a six (6) page single-sided limit on Volume II, Part E, Evidence of Having or Obtaining the Required Facility Clearance. 



There is no page limit on Volume , Price/Business Proposal.  

  

L.7.3  General Format



Following is the specified format for Volumes I and II:



Pages shall be standard 8 ½” by 11” size;

12-point size type shall be used. The font shall be Times Roman. The font size for tables and figures can be no smaller than 8 point. The font size for any graphics as it appears on the printed page can be no smaller than 8 point.

Margins shall be one-inch at top/bottom and left/right of the page and pages may not be reduced form. Headers and footers are allowed in the margins and their font size can be no smaller than 10 point;

Pages shall be printed single-sided; and

Multiple pages or foldouts are limited to 11” to 17” size paper and shall count as two pages towards the page limit.





Offerors shall provide one original (so marked) and four (4) additional paper copies of Volumes I and II; and one original (so marked) and three (3) paper copies of Volume .  Offerors shall also provide two (2) electronic copies of Volumes I and II and three (3) electronic copies of Volume .  Volume  (Price/Business proposal) shall be on a separate electronic medium from the electronic copies of Volumes I and (Technical proposal).  For all volumes, the electronic copy will take precedence over the paper copies. The electronic copy shall be printable, in a “mirror image” of the hard copy proposal submission.  Proposals will be accepted on a CD-ROM/ compatible with Windows Office 2007.  This includes Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint (as applicable and appropriate).



Caution:  Pages submitted in excess of the page limits enumerated above will not be evaluated. Text and graphics with font size smaller than the minimum specified will not be evaluated.  The page limitations apply to both the initial offer and final proposal revisions (if applicable).



Each volume shall contain the following additional items:



Cover:  The cover shall indicate the following:



	Title of the Acquisition:  DS Development, Modernization and Enhancements Support 

	Proposal Category (Technical or Price)

	Volume Number

	RFP Number:  

	Name and Address of the Offeror and DUNS number 

            Company POC for this solicitation and contact information 

	Original or Copy Number



Table of Contents:  Each volume shall contain a Table of Contents, which shall provide sufficient detail in order that all the important elements are easily located. The use of tabs and dividers is encouraged.  The Table(s) of Contents, dividers, tabs, and cover sheets are excluded from the page count; no content within these pages will be considered for evaluation. Offerors should ensure these document pages are used solely for organization of the proposals.



Cross Reference Matrix:  Each volume shall contain a cross-reference matrix relating the proposal information to Sections L and M of the RFP.  The matrix shall be sorted by RFP section number and placed at the beginning of Volumes I, II, and .



Response to the Requirements: Each offeror shall submit a proposal that clearly and concisely describes and defines the contractor’s response to the requirements contained in the RFP.  Use of general or vague statements such as “standard procedures will be used” or “good engineering practices” will not satisfy this requirement.  Simply repeating or paraphrasing the RFP requirements without substantive, meaningful discussion will not be acceptable.  Unnecessary elaboration or presentation beyond that which is sufficient to present a complete and effective proposal is not desired and may be construed as an indication of the offeror’s lack of understanding or cost consciousness. Elaborate artwork, expensive paper or bindings, and expensive visual or other presentation aids is neither necessary nor desired. The desire is for clear succinct pictorials, graphs, etc. 





L.8 VOLUME I TECHNICAL PROPOSAL – PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS  



Volume I, Technical Proposal, shall present the offeror’s proposed technical/management approach and to achieving the requirements of the DS DME Statement of Work.  The proposal shall reflect an in-depth understanding of requirements, environment, and constraints, describe the offeror’s capabilities and approach to ensure program success, and demonstrate how its solution provides efficiency, effectiveness and cost containment.   



The following is what is to be presented in the volume and applicable page limits.  



Volume I	Technical Proposal

	Part A: Technical/Management Approach/Solution

Cross Reference Matrix (does not count towards page limit)

Technical Capabilities and Approach (30 pages)

Management Plan (8 pages)

Staffing Plan (5 pages)

Quality Control Plan (2 pages)



L.8.1 Technical Capabilities and Approach 



The offeror shall present the technical approach, methodology, technologies and/or techniques to be applied to each task in the SOW and demonstrate how its proposed solution will provide efficient and effective services.  The offeror shall describe technical expertise and proven innovative solutions in providing the required services in similar scope and operating environment.  The offeror shall also indicate other capabilities and resources that it will use to accomplish the requirements.  



L.8.2 	Management Plan



The offeror shall present a Management Plan that addresses the following:  



Provide a corporate overview and organizational structure

Provide an overall Program Organizational Structure, presenting clear lines of communication between the offeror’s team and Government personnel 

Provide a comprehensive 30-day (calendar days) transition plan for assuming the tasks from the incumbent contractors that provides for a rapid, seamless and successful transition and addresses all of the necessary activities, schedules, and types and level of resources required

Describe the offeror’s management approach for the overall program and each task that ensures program success and provides for management effectiveness

Describe an approach for identifying and implementing cost saving measures

Describe how program performance will be monitored, measured, and reported; how problems will be identified, mitigated and resolved

Describe how subcontractor personnel and performance will be managed

Provide a Risk Management Plan, identifying potential performance risks and mitigation measures



L.8.3	Staffing Plan



The offeror shall provide a Staffing Plan that describes how it will staff the project, indicating the number of full-time and part-time (if any) resources and types of resources to be assigned to each task.  For part-time resources, also indicate number of work hours per week.  The Contractor’s staffing plan shall reflect its proposed solution to performing the required services.  Additionally, the offeror shall present its approach to staffing up the program (including any incumbent personnel capture plan); percentage (%) of the personnel to be assigned to the contract with current Secret, Top Secret or Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information clearance upon contract award; strategies for recruiting and retaining staff; and capability and approach to handling ad-hoc and surge requirements. The offeror shall describe its compensation plan and detail annual investment in training to be provided to staff s assigned to the project.  



L.8.4	Quality Control Plan 



The contractor is responsible for quality control to meet the terms of the contract.  The offeror shall present a Quality Control Plan that is tailored to the offeror’s proposed solution.  The plan shall document the offeror’s process for ensuring that it performs and delivers high-quality service and deliverables.  The plan shall outline how the offeror expects to achieve the requirements of the SOW and detail the process the offeror intends to employ to assure quality.  This plan will become the offeror’s tool for managing its performance, and will be incorporated into the award to the successful offeror.  







L.9  VOLUME II  TECHNICAL PROPOSAL (cont’d) – PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS



The following is what is to be presented in Volume II and the applicable page limits.  



Table of Contents (no page limit)

Cross Reference Matrix (no page limit)

Part B – Resumes (total 45 pages) and Commitment Letters (no page limit)

Part C – Past Performance (total 10 pages)

Part D – Socio-Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting (3 pages)

Part E – Security Clearance Requirements (2 pages)









L.9.1  Key Personnel Resumes



The offeror shall provide a total of 15 resumes as follows:



15 Key Personnel positions



Each resume shall be limited to 2 pages.  For each resume, provide information on education, certification, professional experience, training received in the past two (2) years, current employer and position, position proposed, subject matter expertise (if also proposed as a SME) and current clearance level.  



Further, the offeror shall provide commitment letters from proposed Key Personnel indicating that they will remain on the project for nine (9) months after contract start.



The offeror shall also submit commitment letters for individuals whose resumes are presented and who are not currently employed by the contractor or subcontractor.  The contingent-hire commitment letter should indicate approval of submission of the resume in response to the Solicitation, as well as, the individual’s agreement to accept the position for which it has been proposed if the offeror is selected for award.  There is no page limit on commitment letters. 



Commitment letters must be signed and dated within 30 days prior to proposal submission. An offeror must notify the Contract Specialist/Officer if any of the proposed individuals withdraws his/her consent or becomes unavailable during the acquisition. 



The desired qualifications for the Key Personnel positions are provided in Attachment 5.  





L.9.2 	Past Performance



The offeror’s proposal shall substantiate that it has recent experience in performing the required work and demonstrate how it’s past and present performance validates that it will provide expected performance and customer satisfaction.  As used in this section, the term “offeror” means the proposed prime contractor; however, the Government reserves the right to also consider in its evaluation any information regarding the past performance of any proposed subcontractor.



The offeror shall provide three (3) Past Performance Profiles (see form below) for work performed within the previous 36 months prior to issuance of this RFP that are directly relevant to the required effort and are of similar scope (same services for large-scale IT development and support services encompassing classified and unclassified networks) and complexity (degree of difficulty).  At least one of the profiles must be for work performed by the offeror as prime contractor for the U.S. Federal Government and having annual revenue exceeding $10M. At least three profiles must be provided for each vendor proposed as a sub-contractor; one of which must be for relevant work performed for the U.S. Federal Government. Sub-contractor profiles may reflect previous sub-contracting agreements.













L.9.3  Socio-Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting



The North American Industry Classification (NAICS) Code for this effort is 541511 - Custom Computer Programming Services having a Small Business Administration (SBA) Size Standard of $25 million.



The Department of State is committed to ensuring that small businesses have the maximum opportunity to participate in the Department’s acquisitions at the prime and subcontracting level.



An offeror that represents itself as a small business concern shall provide a statement on the percentage (%) of the total effort that it proposes to perform on its own and the percentage (%) of the effort that it plans to subcontract.  



Offers that are not small business concerns shall provide a subcontracting plan in accordance with FAR 52.219-9.  The DoS socio-economic objectives as they are set forth in Department of State Acquisition Regulation (DOSAR) Clause 652.219-70 are set forth below.  The goals listed represent the percentage of subcontract dollars.  



Goal for subcontracting to SB (includes Service-Disabled VOSB, 

HUBZone SB, SDB, and WOSB) :							35.0%		



Goal for subcontracting to SDB, includes SBA 8(a) certified firms	  5.0%

Goal for subcontracting to WOSB:					  5.0%

Goal for subcontracting to HUBZone SB:				  3.0%

Goal for subcontracting to Service-Disabled VOSB:			  3.0%



The subcontracting summary shall also provide the following information for each subcontractor:  the subcontractor name, subcontractor business category (large, small, 8(a), etc.), applicable task, work to be performed by the subcontractor, and the percentage of total subcontracting dollars to be subcontracted. 



For each Past Performance Profile, the offeror shall also send a Past Performance Survey, Attachment 3 hereto,  to the respective references to complete and return to the Contracting Officer via email to Don Monaco (Acquisition Analyst) at  as soon as possible, but not later than closing date for the submission of proposals.  The offeror is highly encouraged to ensure that its Past Performance Surveys are returned on time.  Past Performance Surveys received late will not be evaluated and will adversely affect the offeror’s rating.



L.9.4  Safeguard Information



The contractor shall not maintain any information concerning any aspect of its work performed under the contract on its corporate IT systems without the prior written authorization of the contracting officer.  The offeror shall provide a system security plan detailing safeguards for protecting the information that has been authorized to be maintained on its IT systems (via modification to the contract).  The plan shall also describe response and recovery actions to be taken should a compromise occurred.  All safeguards shall be functional prior to storing the information on the contractor IT systems.  Further, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer and COR within an hour upon discovery that any information pertaining to work of the contract is compromised in any way.



L.9.5  Security Clearance  



The security requirements for this effort are set forth in Attachment 2  hereto.  In order to be considered for contract award, each offeror must possess, prior to contract performance, a Top Secret facility security clearance issued by the Defense Security Service (DSS) in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM).  Offerors shall submit, with their proposals, evidence of possessing this clearance or their ability to obtain such clearance within 90 days of contract award. Failure to have or provide convincing evidence of obtaining the necessary clearance within 90 days of contract award may render your proposal unacceptable.



All contractor personnel assigned to the contract are subject to and must be able to maintain a Secret clearance.  Selected positions supporting the Enterprise Security Services program and Network Monitoring and Incident Response program require a Top Secret clearance.  All personnel supporting the Cyber Threat Analysis program must possess and maintain a Top Secret clearance, with selected positions requiring a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) clearance.  All personnel must have the required clearances prior to performance on the contract.



L.9.6	EIT Accessibility Standards Compliance:  



Most of the standards will not apply for labor only contracts.  Any proposed technology solutions (integrated or procured) must comply with the Government’s Section 508 accessibility standards.  The Department of State has determined that the following Section 508 accessibility standards, as codified at 36 CFR 1194, may apply in such instances to this solicitation:  



1194.21 – Software Applications and Operating Systems

1194.22 – Web-Based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications

1194.26 – Desktop and Portable Computers

1194.41 – Information, Documentation, and Support



In addition, DS/EX/CTO’s requirements must not interfere with the Department’s ability to comply with the standards in 1194.31 (Functional Performance Criteria).





The offeror further represents that all EIT products and services of the offeror’s solution that are less than fully compliant are offered pursuant to extensive market research, which ensures that they are the most compliant products and services available to satisfy this solicitation's requirements.



The offeror’s proposal shall discuss in detail Section 508 compliance as it applies to the DS/EX/CTO requirements or provide explanation on how it is not applicable.  The offerors shall include in their proposals details with regard to Section 508 compliance for all of the products and services being utilized in their solutions. 



L.10  VOLUME III –_PRICE/BUSINESS PROPOSAL - PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS 



The proposal submitted shall clearly delineate its proposed prices and rates and explain its pricing strategy, including rationale, support and assumptions, in terms of its advantage(s) to the Government.  If independent DCAA audits have been conducted on overhead, indirect, or other cost elements, please indicate the audit agency and last year in which an audit was conducted. Copies of forward pricing agreements/rates are acceptable.  GSA Schedules or other GWAC contracts from which proposed prices/labor rates are based should be referenced by agency and contract number.  For cost reimbursement items (travel, ODCs and materials), the offeror shall propose a single, contract mark-up rate (not to exceed 10%) to cover administrative costs for these items.



The Contractor shall complete schedules provided in Section B and include them in the Price volume.   For the Time and Material CLINs, the Contractor shall propose fully-loaded hourly rates applicable to team-wide labor categories.  The estimated resource requirements provided by the Government below are for proposal evaluation purposes only.  Each offeror is to propose labor hours that coincide with its staffing plan.  Actual hours, labor categories and ceiling prices for the T&M Items will be determined at the time of contract award.  



Table L.10.1 below presents the historical use of  resources (full-time equivalent) by skill levels for  the Time and Materials tasks. Offerors may propose a variation of this labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations must be fully explained.   

 





































L.10-1, Estimated Resources Required for Time and Materials Tasks 





L.11    COMMUNICATION CONCERNING SOLICITATION



Only the individual shown in Block 10 of the Standard Form 33, "Solicitation, Offer and Award," or the contracting officer, may be contacted regarding this solicitation.  Communication concerning this solicitation with any other U.S. Government personnel, including contractor support personnel, is prohibited unless specifically authorized elsewhere herein.  If such contact occurs, the offeror making such contact may be excluded from award consideration.



L.12     QUESTIONS REGARDING SOLICITATION



Questions regarding this solicitation shall be submitted in writing. Offerors are encouraged to submit their questions as soon as possible, and Amendments to the Solicitation will be issued answering all written questions on an incremental basis. The cut-off time and date for accepting written questions is 10 days after the release of the RFP.  Written questions shall be submitted to Don Monaco , verbal questions will not be accepted.    



When submitting questions and comments, please refer to the specific text of the RFP in the following format:



Subject:  RFP No.  SAQMMA-12-R-0381

Reference: RFP Section ___, Paragraph(s) ____, Page(s) ____.



All questions will be answered via amendment to the solicitation and provided to all Offerors via email on a non-attribution basis.   You may send questions to:  Acquisition Analyst Don Monaco via email at monacofd@state.gov. 



L.13   	 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION



Offerors shall examine and follow all instructions.  Failure to do so may result in the proposal being determined to be unacceptable, not evaluated further and removed from consideration for award.  Proposals shall conform to solicitation provision FAR 52.2151 Instructions to Offerors - Competitive Acquisition and be prepared in accordance with this section.  To aid in the evaluations, proposals shall be clearly and concisely written as well as neat, indexed (crossindexed as appropriate) and logically assembled.  Prospective Offerors are asked to bear in mind that all material submitted should be directly pertinent to the requirements of this RFP.  Extraneous narratives elaborate brochures, uninformative "PR" material and so forth, shall not be submitted.  All pages of each part shall be appropriately numbered, and identified with the name of the Offeror, the date, and the solicitation number to the extent practicable. 



The entire proposal (all three volumes) shall be submitted to the U.S. Department of State, Office of Acquisition Management at the address shown below, no later than:



Time:  	1:00 PM  (Arlington, VA local time)

Date:	The date specified on the SF-33 (Solicitation Section 9)



Each offeror shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF-33 and return it with their proposal. All amendments issued under this RFP must also be signed and returned with the proposal.



Mail to:



U.S. Department of State

ATTN:  Vince Chaverini

Office of Acquisition Management

P.O. Box 9115, Arlington, VA 22219



Or hand-carry to the address below.  Offeror must pre-coordinate drop-off with the  Acquisition Analyst Don Monaco at .  Offeror may call Don Monaco directly from the SA-15 lobby Guards desk X54835 or full telephone number 703-875-4835 if using a cell phone. 



Hand Carry Address:



U.S. Department of State

Office of Acquisition Management

1800 Kent Street

Rosslyn Station, SA-15, Room 3224

Arlington, VA  22209



L.13.1 	PROPOSAL INTEGRITY



In responding to this RFP, it is the Offeror’s responsibility to provide current, complete and accurate information in their proposal.  If in reviewing the proposal the Government identifies or otherwise learns that the provided proposal information is not accurate or misrepresents the Offerors status or capabilities, that information may be used by the contracting officer as part of the Offeror’s responsibility determination and could result in the offeror not being eligible for award.



L.14      ALTERNATIVE PROPOSALS



Alternative proposals will not be considered.



L.15	PROPOSAL PREPARATION COSTS



This RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal in response to this RFP.  The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this procurement.










SECTION M:  EVALUATION FACTORS



M.1	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



M.1.1	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (40 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES



	SOURCE	TITLE AND DATE



	52.217-5 	EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990) 

	52.247-50	NO EVALUATION OF TRANSPORTATION COSTS (APR 1984)



M.2     	BASIS FOR AWARD



a. The U.S. Government is conducting this source selection in accordance with the competitive negotiation source selection procedures contained in FAR Part 15.

b. In accordance with FAR 52.2151(f), the Government intends to award a single contract with award made to the responsible offeror whose proposal represents the best value to the Government.  Best value is defined in FAR Part 2, as the expected outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation, provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement.  The Government will conduct a tradeoff best value analysis using the factors listed in Section M.  In performing its best value analysis, the Government will compare any relevant differences among the evaluated proposals to determine which proposal offers the overall best value.  This effort will include comparing the strengths, weaknesses and risks associated with each offer.  For this acquisition, technical merit is significantly more important than cost or price.  Award will not be automatically determined by numerical calculation or formula relationship between cost or price and technical merit.  As technical merit of the offerors' proposals becomes more equal, the evaluated cost or price may become the determining factor.  The Contracting Officer shall determine what trade-off between technical merit and cost or price promises the greatest value to the Government, cost or price and other factors considered.   



c. The Government may evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with the Offerors, except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a), and  therefore may evaluate each offer on the basis of the Offeror's initial proposal only.  Therefore, the initial proposal should contain the Offerors' best terms from a technical and cost/price standpoint.

d. When conducting the evaluation, the U.S. Government may use data included by offerors in their proposals, as well as data obtained from other sources.  Each offeror is responsible for ensuring that the information provided is thorough, accurate, and complete.








M.3     	REJECTION OF UNREALISTIC OFFERS



To be eligible for award, offerors are required to substantially meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions, technical factors, and pricing information.  Failure to comply with all terms and conditions of the solicitation may result in the offeror being removed from award consideration, and any omission of solicitation terms and conditions must be fully explained and justified.  As such, the U.S. Government may reject any proposal that is evaluated to be unrealistic in terms of technical requirements, to include terms and conditions, and price, such that the proposal reflects an inherent lack of competence or failure to comprehend the overall requirements of the solicitation.



M4.  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



Technical proposals will be evaluated on Factor levels as set forth below:

The technical evaluation factors are listed in descending order of importance.  



Factor 1:  Technical/Management Approach/Solution 

Factor 2:  Corporate Capabilities and Past Performance 

Factor 3:  Staffing Plan, Key Personnel and Resumes

Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting





Factor 1:  Technical/Management Approach/Solution 



Factor 1 consists of five (5) sub-factors of equal importance:



Sub-factor 1:	Technical Approach/Capabilities – Approach for DME Services (Task Area 3)

Sub-factor 2:  	Technical Approach/Capabilities – Approach for Technical Support Services (Task Area 5)

Sub-factor 3:  	Technical Approach/Capabilities – Approach for Quality Management & Testing (Task Area 4)

Sub-factor 4:   Technical Approach/Capabilities – Approach for Portfolio & Organizational Management (Task Area 2)

Sub-factor 5:  	Management Approach/Capabilities – Program Management Plan, Quality Control Plan, and Program Management and Administration (Task Area 1)



The Government will evaluate the offeror’s technical and management approach/solution for its quality and evidence of the extent to which it will achieve the requirements of the SOW.  This will involve an assessment of the offeror’s technical and management capabilities and proposed solutions.







Factor 2:  Corporate Capabilities and Past Performance



The evaluation of this factor refers to the offeror’s corporate resources and capabilities and performance results (outcomes) of similar tasks for the DoS or in other government contract efforts of similar magnitude. These contracts and projects must have been completed within the past five (5) years or currently in progress for services similar to the requirements of this SOW. 



The offeror’s corporate capabilities will be evaluated based on the offeror’s description and discussion of its corporation and any proposed subcontractors demonstrating corporate resources and capabilities to perform the tasks contained in this SOW. 



The Government will conduct reference checks in order to determine the offeror’s corporate past performance. In this regard, for each key personnel proposed and for each contracted project listed, the offeror shall provide a point of contact (name and telephone number) to support past performance.



Each offeror may use a variety of sources for reporting their past performance; to include Federal, State, local government agencies, and privately owned corporations. Along with their submittals, offerors are also encouraged to submit information on any challenges encountered on the past performance information they submit, and any corrective or innovative action(s) taken to resolve the challenge.



Accordingly, Past Performance Information (PPI) shall clearly and concisely demonstrate the offerors’ experience and ability to successfully deliver quality software products, equipment, and support services identified in the SOW. Each offeror shall provide a minimum of three (3) and a maximum of five (5) references (each reference shall be no more than two (2) pages in length) of contracts, task/delivery orders, etc., for similar work performed in the last three (3) years. Three must be from the Prime Offeror if a team of more than one company is proposed. A minimum of three (3) must be provided from every offeror involved if more than one company is proposed. Each PPI reference shall at a minimum consist of the following information:



Name of Government Agency and/or Corporation name, reporting on;

Contract/Order number, date of award, and total dollar value (including options);

Full name and title, phone number and e-mail address of the reference (please ensure POC information is current and accurate);

Description of requirement, comprised of a detailed explanation of how work identified in the referenced contract/order is similar to the requirements identified in this SOW; and

Brief description of contract work, scope, responsibilities, challenges and resulting resolution. 



The Offeror shall indicate if it has no past performance.   As stipulated under FAR Part 15.3, offerors without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance.  Thus, offerors without a record of relevant past performance will be given a neutral rating.





Factor 3:  Staffing Plan, Key Personnel and Resumes



The Offeror will be evaluated on descriptions of key roles and submitted resumes and “Letters of Commitment” illustrating an appropriate skill mix; and experience of key staff and other proposed technical, management, and project support staff.



Resumes shall be included in the response to the SOW for each key person proposed. Resumes of management, technical, and support staff necessary to provide the services and support requested shall also be included. Individual resumes shall be no more than two pages in length and include:

Name of person; 

Proposed position, function, or role; 

Proposed labor category; 

Education (including, in reverse chronological order, colleges and/or technical schools attended (with dates), degree(s)/certification(s) received, major field(s) of study, and approximate number of total class hours); 

Experience (including, in reverse chronological order, area(s) of work in which a person is qualified, company and title of position, approximate starting and ending dates (month/year), concise descriptions of experience for each position held, and 

Certification that the information contained in the resume is correct and accurate. 



Letters of Commitment: In addition to the above submission, but not included in the above maximum page count, the offeror shall include in its response to the SOW a “Letter of Commitment” from each key person proposed for the project. A “Letter of Commitment” shall be submitted by each individual proposed as “Key Personnel” whether or not the person is currently employed by the offeror.











Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting



The Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 4 for offerors who are small business concerns are shown in the table below.







Offerors that are not small business concerns will be evaluated on their proposed subcontracting plan and level of small business participation and be given favorable consideration to the extent determined to meet or exceed the  DoS’s current small business goal of 55% as set forth in DOSAR 652.219-70 (Section 17).      



The Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 4 for offerors who are other than small business concerns are shown in the table below.









M.5 	RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF TECHNICAL EVALUATION FACTORS



a.	Factors 1-4 (non-price factors) are listed in descending order of importance.

b.	Factors 1-4 are significantly more important than Price

c.	Sub-factors listed in Factor 1 are equal to one another in importance. 



M.6	NEGOTIATION



The Government reserves the right and intends to make contract award without holding discussions except for clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a).  However, pursuant to FAR Part 15.306(c), if discussions are deemed necessary, the Contracting Officer shall establish a competitive range of the most highly rated proposals and conduct discussions with those offerors determined to be within the competitive range.  If the number of most highly rated proposals exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range.





  

OFFEROR’S ARE CAUTIONED TO SUBMIT THEIR PROPOSAL ON THE BASIS OF THEIR MOST FAVORABLE TERMS TO THE GOVERNMENT, SINCE THE GOVERNMENT RESERVES THE RIGHT TO MAKE AN AWARD WITHOUT FURTHER NEGOTIATION OR DISCUSSION, in accordance with FAR Subpart 15.209 (a).



M.7     	BEST VALUE DETERMINATION



The Government anticipates award of a single contract to the responsible offeror whose proposals represent the best value to the Government, cost or price and other factors considered.



The Best Value award determination will be reached by comparing the differences in the value of the technical proposal with the differences in the costs/price proposed.  In making this comparison, the U.S. Government is more concerned with obtaining superior technical performance than lowest overall price.  Overall price to the U.S. Government may become the ultimate determining factor for award of the contract as proposals become more equal based on the other factors.  The Contracting Officer shall determine what trade-offs between non cost/price factors  and cost/price offers the greatest overall value to the U.S. Government, cost or price and other non-price related factors considered.



M.8    PRICE EVALUATION



The principal basis for evaluating cost or price as a factor for award under this solicitation will be an evaluation of the reasonableness of the offeror’s price proposal in response to Section B (Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs).  Price evaluations will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of each offeror’s proposed prices.  As such, DOS will use any combination of the proposal analysis techniques stipulated under FAR part 15.404 to aid in the price evaluation process.



Each price proposal will be evaluated, but will not be assigned a rating.  Offerors are encouraged to propose labor rates at or below those contained in existing contracts held by the offeror for which rates have been already determined fair and reasonable.  The Government will also evaluate the proposed labor rates, to determine if the costs/prices are reasonable using proposal analysis techniques consistent with FAR 15.404-1.  Notional quantities and amounts may be used to derive an overall contract value for each proposal for comparison purposes.  Such notional quantities and amounts will be applied as reasonably and consistently as practicable across all proposals to ensure fairness in the comparison of derived overall contract values.









M.9	EVALUATION OF OPTIONS



For award purposes, in addition to an Offeror's response to the base period requirements, the Government will evaluate the Offeror's technical, management, schedule, and price response to all contract option periods.  Evaluation of the option periods will not obligate the Government to exercise the options. 



M.10   DEBRIEFINGS



If requested, pre-award and post-award debriefings will be executed in accordance with FAR Parts 15.505 and 15.506.  Offerors may request a debriefing by providing a written request in accordance with the above mentioned FAR cites.  To the maximum extent practicable, debriefings will be conducted within 5 days after receipt of the offeror’s written request.  Debriefing requests can be submitted to the following addresses:



Office of Acquisition Management

Attn: Vince Chaverini, Jr.

P.O.  Box 9115

Arlington, VA 22219

Or email:  



CLIN

Description

Qty

Unit

Unit Price

Total Amt

0000

Transition Support (FFP)

1

Lot

$

$













0001

Contract Level Program Management (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

0002

In progress review support (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 0001 and 0002 offerors  must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 0001 and 0002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 













0003

Base Year Services 
From the Effective Date of Contract until 1 year thereafter (T&M) – 1 Lot – Estimated Amount  Based on T&M labor rate schedule below)

1

Lot

$

$

0004

Travel ODC/Misc Materials As Required.  
To be billed in Accordance with Federal Travel Regulations

1

Lot



Est $25,000.00















TOTAL Base Year BASIC SERVICES CLINS 0001 through 0004:

TOTAL Base Year BASIC SERVICES CLINS 0001 through 0004:

TOTAL Base Year BASIC SERVICES CLINS 0001 through 0004:

TOTAL Base Year BASIC SERVICES CLINS 0001 through 0004:

$















BASE YEAR CEILING CLIN 0003





(Ceiling)

$ TBD



CLIN

Description

Qty

Unit

Unit Price

Total Amt

1001

Contract Level Program Management (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

1002

In progress review support (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 1001 and 1002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 1001 and 1002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 













1003

Option Year 1 Services 1 Lot – Estimated Amount Based on T&M labor rate schedule below)

1

Lot

$

$

1004

Travel ODC/Misc Materials As Required.  
To be billed in Accordance with Federal Travel Regulations

1

Lot



Est $25,000.00















TOTAL Option Year 1 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 1001 through 1004:

TOTAL Option Year 1 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 1001 through 1004:

TOTAL Option Year 1 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 1001 through 1004:

TOTAL Option Year 1 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 1001 through 1004:

$















OPTION YEAR 1 CEILING (CLIN 1003)





(Ceiling)

$ TBD



CLIN

Description

Qty

Unit

Unit Price

Total Amt

2001

Contract Level Program Management (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

2002

In progress review support (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 2001 and 2002 offerors must provide visibility into the make  p of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 2001 and 2002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 













2003

Option Year 2 Services 1 Lot – Estimated Amount Based on T&M labor rate schedule below)

1

Lot

$

$

2004

Travel ODC/Misc Materials As Required.  
To be billed in Accordance with Federal Travel Regulations

1

Lot



Est $25,000.00















TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 2001 through 2004:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 2001 through 2004:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 2001 through 2004:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 2001 through 2004:

$















OPTION YEAR 2 CLIN 2003 CEILING:





(Ceiling)

$ TBD



CLIN

Description

Qty

Unit

Unit Price

Total Amt

3001

Contract Level Program Management (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

3002

In progress review support (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 3001 and 3002 offerors must provide visibility into the make up of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 3001 and 3002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement.  Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 













3003

Option Year 3 Services 1 Lot – Estimated Amount Based on T&M labor rate schedule below)

1

Lot

$

$

3004

Travel ODC/Misc Materials As Required.  
To be billed in Accordance with Federal Travel Regulations

1

Lot



Est $25,000.00















TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 3001 through 3005:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 3001 through 3005:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 3001 through 3005:

TOTAL Option Year 2 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 3001 through 3005:

$















OPTION YEAR 3 CLIN 3003 CEILING:





(Ceiling)

$ TBD



CLIN

Description

Qty

Unit

Unit Price

Total Amt

4001

Contract Level Program Management (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

4002

In progress review support (FFP)

12

MO

$

$

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 

Note 1:   For CLINs 4001 and 4002 offerors must provide visibility into the make u of the monthly price showing as a minimum the types and quantities of labor hours along with a cost build-up of the labor rates. This should be included in the price proposal and titled Price Support for CLINs 4001 and 4002.  Offerors may use the tables set forth in Section L Clause L.10 as a guide to the expected skill level requirement. Offerors may propose a variation of that labor mix based on their own technical approach.  Deviations however, must be fully explained. 













4003

Option Year 4 Services 1 Lot – Estimated Amount Based on T&M labor rate schedule below)

1

Lot

$

$

4004

Travel ODC/Misc Materials As Required.  
To be billed in Accordance with Federal Travel Regulations

1

Lot



Est $25,000.00















TOTAL Option Year 4 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 4001 through 4004:

TOTAL Option Year 4 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 4001 through 4004:

TOTAL Option Year 4 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 4001 through 4004:

TOTAL Option Year 4 BASIC SERVICES CLINS 4001 through 4004:

$















OPTION YEAR 4 CLIN 4003 CEILING:





(Ceiling)

$ TBD



Labor Category                                

Labor Category                                

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Price 

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

001

Administrative Assistant, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

002

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

003

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

004

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

005

Business Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

006

Portfolio Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

007

Program Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

008

Program Manager, Mid

______________

$_____________

$______________

009

Project Leader

______________

$_____________

$______________

010

Functional Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

011

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

012

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

______________

$_____________

$______________

013

Database Architect

______________

$_____________

$______________

014

Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

015

Object Oriented Engineer

______________

$_____________

$______________

016

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

017

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

018

Applications Engineer, Entry level

______________

$_____________

$______________

019

Application Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

020

Application Programmer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

021

Database Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

022

Database Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

023

CMM, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

024

Test Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

025

Configuration Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

026

System Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

027

Database Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

028

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

029

Systems Tech (Trainer)

______________

$_____________

$______________

030

Systems Tech (Writer)

______________

$_____________

$______________



Labor Category                                

Labor Category                                

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Price 

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

101

Administrative Assistant, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

102

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

103

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

104

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

105

Business Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

106

Portfolio Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

107

Program Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

108

Program Manager, Mid

______________

$_____________

$______________

109

Project Leader

______________

$_____________

$______________

110

Functional Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

111

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

112

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

______________

$_____________

$______________

113

Database Architect

______________

$_____________

$______________

114

Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

115

Object Oriented Engineer

______________

$_____________

$______________

116

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

117

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

118

Applications Engineer, Entry level

______________

$_____________

$______________

119

Application Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

120

Application Programmer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

121

Database Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

122

Database Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

123

CMM, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

124

Test Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

125

Configuration Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

126

System Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

127

Database Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

128

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

129

Systems Tech (Trainer)

______________

$_____________

$______________

130

Systems Tech (Writer)

______________

$_____________

$______________



Labor Category                                

Labor Category                                

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Price 

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

201

Administrative Assistant, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

202

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

203

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

204

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

205

Business Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

206

Portfolio Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

207

Program Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

208

Program Manager, Mid

______________

$_____________

$______________

209

Project Leader

______________

$_____________

$______________

210

Functional Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

211

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

212

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

______________

$_____________

$______________

213

Database Architect

______________

$_____________

$______________

214

Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

215

Object Oriented Engineer

______________

$_____________

$______________

216

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

217

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

218

Applications Engineer, Entry level

______________

$_____________

$______________

219

Application Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

220

Application Programmer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

221

Database Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

222

Database Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

223

CMM, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

224

Test Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

225

Configuration Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

226

System Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

227

Database Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

228

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

229

Systems Tech (Trainer)

______________

$_____________

$______________

230

Systems Tech (Writer)

______________

$_____________

$______________



Labor Category                                

Labor Category                                

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Price 

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

301

Administrative Assistant, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

302

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

303

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

304

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

305

Business Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

306

Portfolio Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

307

Program Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

308

Program Manager, Mid

______________

$_____________

$______________

309

Project Leader

______________

$_____________

$______________

310

Functional Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

311

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

312

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

______________

$_____________

$______________

313

Database Architect

______________

$_____________

$______________

314

Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

315

Object Oriented Engineer

______________

$_____________

$______________

316

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

317

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

318

Applications Engineer, Entry level

______________

$_____________

$______________

319

Application Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

320

Application Programmer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

321

Database Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

322

Database Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

323

CMM, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

324

Test Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

325

Configuration Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

326

System Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

327

Database Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

328

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

329

Systems Tech (Trainer)

______________

$_____________

$______________

330

Systems Tech (Writer)

______________

$_____________

$______________



Labor Category                                

Labor Category                                

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Total Estimated Price 

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management

401

Administrative Assistant, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

402

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

403

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

404

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

405

Business Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

406

Portfolio Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services

407

Program Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

408

Program Manager, Mid

______________

$_____________

$______________

409

Project Leader

______________

$_____________

$______________

410

Functional Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

411

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

412

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

______________

$_____________

$______________

413

Database Architect

______________

$_____________

$______________

414

Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

415

Object Oriented Engineer

______________

$_____________

$______________

416

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

417

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

418

Applications Engineer, Entry level

______________

$_____________

$______________

419

Application Programmer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

420

Application Programmer, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

421

Database Analyst, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

422

Database Analyst, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing

423

CMM, Mid-level

______________

$_____________

$______________

424

Test Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services

425

Configuration Manager, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

426

System Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

427

Database Administrator, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

428

Applications Engineer, Senior

______________

$_____________

$______________

429

Systems Tech (Trainer)

______________

$_____________

$______________

430

Systems Tech (Writer)

______________

$_____________

$______________



Clause

Title

Date

52.246-04

Inspection Of Services- Fixed Price

August 1996

52.246-06

Inspection - Time and Material and Labor-hour

May 2001

52.246-16

Responsibility for Supplies

April 1984



Clause

Title

Date

52.211-11

Liquidated Damages--Supplies, Services, or Research and Development

September 2000

52.242-15

Stop Work Order

August 1989

52.242-17

Government Delay of Work

April 1984





Invoice submission is only via the Office of Claims’ Commercial Claims Operations fax server, toll-free number: 866-483-3436, or DOS, unless otherwise indicated.  Each invoice must be transmitted separately.  

To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include the following information and/or attached documentation:



(1)   Name and Address of the Contractor 

(2)   Dun and Brad Street Universal Number System (DUNS) 

(3)   Date of invoice 

(4)   Unique Vendor Invoice Number - Our Financial System cannot accept the following characters: @ (at symbol), ~ (Tilde), & (Ampersand), ' (Apostrophe), " (Quotation) and spaces.  Please do not include any of these characters as part of your invoice number.

(5)   Remittance Contact Information 

(6)   Shipping Terms, Ship to Address 

(7)   Payment Terms 

(8)   Total Quantity of Items 

(9)   Total Invoice Amount 

(10)  Requisition Number, Contract Number and Order/Award Number, with modification number if applicable. 

(11)  Order line item number and information (see below instructions)
 

The name and DUNS of the contractor on the invoice must match the information indicated on the order/award for proper payment.  

 

IMPORTANT:  For proper payment, the invoice must detail products and/or services delivered on a line item basis in direct accordance with the corresponding order/award/contract.  Each line item must contain the following information: 

(1)  Description of the services rendered for each line item 

(2)  Line Item Quantity 

(3)  Line Item Unit Price 

(4)  Total Line Item Invoicing Amount

(5)  Delivery Date 

(6)  Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) 

(7)  Order/Award Line Item Number if invoicing against a task or delivery order or Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) 

 

Please note that many task or delivery orders against Department of State or GSA contracts or blanket purchase agreements may have a separate and unique line item number in addition to the umbrella Contract Line Item Number (CLIN).  The order line item number as well as the umbrella award CLIN must be referenced at each invoice line item level in such cases.  

 

All payments to domestic claims will be disbursed by electronic funds transfer (EFT).  Vendors who are registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) should verify and re-confirm their financial information in the database prior to invoicing.  Vendors who wish to request a waiver of CCR or payment by check must submit their justification to their assigned contracting officer for consideration at least 30 days prior to billing.  For vendors who are granted an EFT exception, the payment address on the invoice must match the remittance address in the vendor record cited in the award.  

 

Additional correspondence should be addressed to: 

 

Name:  
U.S. Department of State 

Global Financial Services 

Attn: Office of Claims (RM/GFS/F/C) 

Charleston Financial Service Center

 

Mailing Address:

Post Office Box 150008

Charleston, SC 29415-5008 

Telephone Numbers:     

Director’s Secretary Voice 843-202-3761 

Fax 843-746-0749

Official Office Hours: 8:00 am – 5:00 pm

 

To request Payment Status on a Past Due Invoice contact:  

Office of Claims Customer Service

Email:  

Phone:  877-704-9473 Toll Free 

 

Person to Contact: Supervisor, Vendor Claims 

Email: 

(End of clause)




Past Performance Profile – Contract/Task Order Number 

Offeror:  

Performed as Prime or Subcontractor:

Federal Agency Supported:

Points of Contact:  

     Contractual:                                                      COR / COTR:

          Name                                          

          Organization

          Address

          Telephone Number

          FAX Number

          Email Address

Project Location(s) [State or Country]:

Number of Full-Time Project Personnel:

Actual Annual Contract Dollars (not Contract Ceiling Value):

    Original Annual Contract Value:

    Actual/Current Annual Contract Value:

    Explanation of Variance if applicable:

Period of Performance:

Type of Award (Competitive, Sole-Source, Performance Based, etc)

Contract Type (Firm Fixed Price, Time and Materials, Cost Plus, etc.)

Descriptions of Work Performed, including Scope and Complexity of the Effort:









Technical, Cost or Schedule Problems Encountered and Resolution:







Innovative Solution Applied, Cost-Savings Realized or Recognition Received:







Actual Results Achieved against Performance Standards:



  





Labor Category

Historic Personnel Count

Task Area 2 - Portfolio Management



Administrative Assistant, Senior

1

Knowledge Mgmt Dev, Senior

1

Enterprise Architecture Specialist, Senior

1

Capital Planning Coordinator, Senior

1

Business Analyst, Mid-level

1

Portfolio Manager, Senior

1

Task Area 3 - Software Development, Modernization, and Enhancement (DME) Support Services



Program Manager, Senior

4

Program Manager, Mid

2

Project Leader

2

Functional Analyst, Senior

1

Functional Analyst, Mid-level

5

Internet/Intranet Content Designer

1

Database Architect

1

Programmer, Senior

3

Object Oriented Engineer

2

Applications Engineer, Senior

4

Applications Engineer, Mid-level

2

Applications Engineer, Entry level

1

Application Programmer, Senior

5

Application Programmer, Mid-level

1

Database Analyst, Senior

2

Database Analyst, Mid-level

5

Task Area 4: Quality Management & Testing



CMM, Mid-level

2

Test Engineer, Senior

4

Task Area 5: Technical Support Services



Configuration Manager, Senior

2

System Administrator, Senior

3

Database Administrator, Senior

2

Applications Engineer, Senior

2

Systems Tech (Trainer)

2

Systems Tech (Writer)

1

Total: 

65



Evaluation Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting – Offerors that are Small Business Concerns 

Evaluation Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting – Offerors that are Small Business Concerns 

Rating

Description

Exceptional

The SB proposes to perform more than 35% of the required effort

Acceptable

The SB proposes to perform more than 25% but less than 35% of the required effort

Marginal

The SB proposes to perform more than 15% but less than 25% of the required effort 

Unacceptable

The SB proposes to perform less than 15% of the required effort



Evaluation Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting – Offerors Other Than Small Business Concerns

Evaluation Factor 4:  Socio Economic Business Strategy and Subcontracting – Offerors Other Than Small Business Concerns

Rating

Description

Exceptional

Exceeds the DoS SB subcontracting goal of 55% 

Acceptable

Meets the DoS overall SB subcontracting goal of 55%

Marginal

Fails to meet the DoS overall SB subcontracting goal by 20% or less 

Unacceptable

Fails to meet the criteria for Marginal