<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSOW.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSOW.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>

                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK

                                                                    OJP/OA/HRD
                                                   Enterprise Human Resource Management System



1. Background


The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Justice Programs (OJP) is seeking an integrated web-based Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS), or
Government-off-the-Shelf (GOTS) solution (hereafter referred to as “Enterprise HR Management System”) that is integrated with the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM), USAJOBs system and the National Finance Center (NFC).  The Office of Justice Programs is procuring an enterprise
automated human resources system for the Office of Justice Programs that will support the Office of Administration, Human Resources Division and
adhere to all DOJ/OJP security requirements.

OJP currently uses a variety of non-integrated systems to process personnel workflow actions as well as an automated recruiting/classification
system that allows electronic creation of position descriptions, electronic posting of vacancies to USAJOBs, online/automated submission and
tracking of employment applications, generation of certificates of eligibles, and other staffing-related capabilities.  In addition to these
features, OJP is looking for innovation and expanded/enhanced system functionality and technology to support human capital and human resources
(HR) business processes and operations such as online employee onboarding, performance management, employee relations management, and retirement
and benefits counseling and processing, time and attendance management, and equal employment opportunity management.

2. Scope


The contractor shall deliver a COTS/GOTS Enterprise HR Management System to OJP, and enable an effective user-friendly web-based application for
its employees, managers and senior staff, who are centrally located in Washington DC.  Approximately 700 employees will initially be covered by
the system, including 2-3 system administrators.  These numbers may increase as OJP receives authorization for additional positions in future
years.  The system must be able to interface with the Department’s payroll/personnel system (NFC), internal Department/Component systems, and
provide data feeds to external systems (e.g., Office of Personnel Management) to support regulatory requirements.




3. Applicable Documents

(a)   Title 5, United States Code; Government Organizations and Employees

(b)   5 CFR Parts 1 to 699; Administrative Personnel


 4.   General Requirements
The contractor shall provide a series of integrated modules that are accessed through a single  “master  user  interface”  and  automate  various
strategic functions such as strategic  workforce  assessment,  job  composition,  workforce  architecture,  employee  and  labor  relations,  and
succession planning.  The system must come pre-loaded with engineered content and expertise designed specifically for  the  public  sector  along
with business process management technology, workflow, and transaction processing.  The entire offering must  be  available,  by  module,  for  a
single, fixed annual subscription fee.  The contractor’s subscription offering must also include, as part of the  subscription  on  an  unlimited
basis and at no additional charge, the full range of services needed for full and effective deployment and operation of the system, including:


      Product implementation consulting, training and technical support, including: 24x7x365 technical support and data center management;


    ▪ 24x7x365 Help Desk support for job applicants and employees;

    ▪ 24x7x365 direct online and telephone support for staff professionals to assist in all aspects of using  the  system  and  delivering  Human
      Resource (HR) services to HR customers, including developing positions, recruitment activities, job posting, surge workload support, etc.;

    ▪ 24x7x365 direct online and telephone support  for managers  for  all  levels  and  types  including  job  postings,  position  development,
      performance plan development, workforce management, workforce forecasting, reporting, skills management, and real-time performance  support
      on system use;

    ▪ Employee briefings and “town hall” meetings;

    ▪ Management and executive briefings;

Training for HR and staff professionals, including administrative officers, EEO professionals, budget  analysts,  payroll  and  personnel  action
processing staff, and all others included in the human  resources  end-to-end  business  process.  The  system  is  to  be  externally-hosted  by
contractor who will be responsible for operation and maintenance of the system, including security.
    ▪ Maintenance of the interconnections with the USAJOBs system and other internal systems such as the  interface  with  the  National  Finance
      Center.
    ▪ Maintenance of security, system, and user documentation and support.
    ▪ Technical development and testing of the system to resolve problems and/or create normal and routine COTS upgrades.
    ▪ Ensure data integrity and system availability.
    ▪ Responsive to customer feedback and suggestions.
    ▪ Full compliance with all applicable Government policy, law, and regulation with regards to the hiring  process,  privacy,  and  information
      technology security.
    ▪ Provide and administer licenses, hardware/software, and user accounts.
    ▪ Extensive background in information technology and human resources management for the Federal Government.

The contractor shall be required to have available, at a minimum, the following integrated modules descriptions provided below):

    • Position management, including job classification
    • Recruitment, retention, and staffing
    • Performance optimization
    • Organizational optimization
    • Employee self-service, including on-line retirement counseling (3.1.6)
    • Management-Employee Relations, including case tracking and expert advisory functionality in  the  areas  of  labor  relations,  EEO,  Civil
      Rights, employee relations, and injury compensation
    • Enterprise learning management
    • Organizational forecasting, including succession planning
    • Salary management
    • Time and Attendance
    • Bi-directional payroll system interface
    • Personnel action request workflow
    • Ad hoc reporting across all modules

      ***Please note that ALL OJP Core HR functions (Personnel Action Processing, Benefits  Management,  and  Compensation  Management)  will  be
      handled by another vendor previously selected by the DOJ. The OJP requires that the offeror selected for this procurement have capabilities
      listed below to ensure that all provided modules will interface with the OJP’s existing HR System.

      4.1 Position Management.  With respect to position management, the system must support  all  relevant  activities  for  the  public  sector
      including job classification and pay, and automate the processes involved in creating classified positions and providing key  documentation
      related to the position. The system must use configurable rules engines to determine  relationships  between  duties,  job  classification,
      compensation level, and performance standards. After the analysis is complete, the system must automatically produce a classified  Position
      Description, Evaluation Statement, Performance Plan and Interview Tips for  the  Manager.  All  of  the  documents  listed  must  be  fully
      integrated.  The system must be able to support, without significant customization effort, agencies with a variety of different  approaches
      including pay banding, excepted service, market-base pay, and pay for performance systems.

      4.2. Recruitment, Retention, and Staffing.  The  system  must  support  public  sector  activities  including  staffing,  recruitment,  and
      retention.  The system must fully automate the processes involved in creating recruitment  and  staffing  criteria  necessary  to  evaluate
      applicants for the job. Based upon the position, the system must automatically generate an internally valid  job  analysis  to  produce:  a
      classified position description, evaluation statement, vacancy announcement, crediting plan, performance plan and interview guide.

      The system must also provide automatically for electronic recruitment, job posting, on-line application, rating, ranking  and  referral  of
      candidates. The system must be able to build a custom job application based on the specific requirements of the  position  that  applicants
      will complete online and submit for rating and ranking. The system must have the capability to review all applicants and produce a list  of
      highly qualified applicants for the hiring manager, with business logic engines automatically  adjusting  the  lists  based  on  regulatory
      requirements and union rules to take into consideration special priorities such  as  veteran's  preference,  eligibility  requirements  and
      priority placement programs.

      The system must also provide functionality that allows employees or applicants to access the system 24 hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week  to
      electronically view or verify the status of their application, and  electronically  submit/attach  personal  data,  such  as  a  resume  or
      employment application; attachment capability must include any standard format including .doc, .csv, .ppt, .wav,  and  jpeg,  for  example.
      The system must enable managers to review online applications and  associated  documents;  make  online  selections;  perform  searches  on
      applicant and job announcements; and schedule interviews.

      The system must enable HR specialists to electronically approve vacancies, to electronically post job vacancies to multiple sites, to  post
      open continuous announcements building an applicant supply file, to retrieve stored applicant files with previously determined skills  sets
      and competencies, to build an electronic case file, to view and review applicants’ applications, and to view and store a repository of  job
      vacancies posted.

      Each staffing action must be electronically archived to provide an historical record of all applicant transactions.


      4.3. Performance Optimization. Specifically with respect to the “Performance Optimization” component  of  the  system,  the  offering  must
      enable managers and HR specialists to provide specific strategic goals to organizational units that cascade down into  individual  position
      performance objectives, track specific project milestones and/or assigned performance feedback dates and notify both employees and managers
      of such deadlines, to track overall or organization’s performance by "rolling up" achievements from individual performance ratings  into  a
      consolidated organizational view, to provide electronic performance appraisals and automatically query employees, and to track  performance
      appraisals and performance improvement plans.

      4.4. Organizational Optimization.  The offeror’s system must contain content and feature/functionality to provide a  central  resource  for
      team assembly, deployment, and coordination and performance feedback, enabling an organization  to  orchestrate  its  response  to  sudden,
      emerging or changing situations, by employing a multi-disciplinary approach that links critical skills and coordinates the project team.

      The system must contain, down to  the  individual,  the  entire  inventory  of  the  skills,  geographic  location,  availability,  contact
      information, security clearances, travel clearances, specialties and certifications, personal preferences,  and  other  logistics  for  all
      relevant members of the organization’s human assets.  By utilizing either direct tracking or bi-directional feeds from  the  organization’s
      other systems, the system must have the capability to concurrently display the characteristics of physical assets such  as  supply  levels,
      inventory, condition, location, and other relevant information. In addition, the system must  provide  the  organizational  capability  for
      incident and status reporting that ensures that everyone who is involved in a particular  situation  is  automatically  provided  with  all
      necessary information and the ability to take action.

      The system must have the capability to track specific project milestones and assigned performance  feedback  dates,  with  the  ability  to
      automatically initiate and solicit employee/ team member feedback to collect information from the organization’s employees, contractors, or
      other third parties about how project and performance objectives are being met. The system must be able to track overall or  organizational
      performance by “rolling up” achievements and sub-optimal outcomes  from  individual  and  team  performance  ratings  into  a  consolidated
      organizational view. Outcomes must be tracked, and where necessary, skill, training, and performance deficiencies are evaluated.

       4.5. Employee Self-service, including on-line retirement counseling.  The offeror’s  system  must  track  where  individuals  are  in  the
      employee lifecycle and provide desktop access to services employees can manage themselves, as well as  data  to  the  employer  seeking  to
      continue getting the highest rate of return on their human capital investment.  The system must contains employee  self-service,  including
      HR, retirement planning, and career development; retention management; climate surveys; exit interviews; payroll look-ups, tax and benefits
      administration, personal profiles (e.g., name changes, address, emergency contact information, etc.), and retirement planning.


      4.6. Management-Employee Relations, including case tracking and expert advisory functionality in the areas of labor relations,  EEO,  Civil
      Rights, employee relations, and injury compensation.

      (a)   Management-Employee Relations.  The offeror’s system must provide online coaching, tools,  content  lookup,  situation  analysis  and
      decision support for all participants involved in managing human capital including  senior  executives,  supervisors,  mid-level  managers,
      staff professionals, program managers and administrative support staff. Specifically, the system must  contain  information  pertaining  to
      compensation administration and benefits, disciplinary actions, employee rights and responsibilities, rewards and  recognition,  leadership
      and interpersonal skill, team building and mentoring, and alternative dispute resolution and mediation. The system must also  offer  online
      guidance including organization policy, union agreements, risk management strategies, and statutory and regulatory references.

      (b)   EEO.  The system must contain content and  feature/functionality  specifically  addressing  EEO  program  and  case  management  that
      provides practical guidance to management officials, union representatives, EEO practitioners, investigators, mediators, and  employees  to
      handle case management and tracking of EEO complaints and grievances. The system must provide digital case processing and  management  with
      online forms and links all parties involved. The system must  also include information on  coverage  of  EEO  Complaint  procedures,  basic
      provisions for covered employees, complaint processing procedures and timeframes, alternative dispute resolution  processes,  determination
      of complaint coverage and timeliness, best practices in claims management as well as the reports and forms that are required throughout the
      process. The system should also recommend next step actions to assist a supervisor to deal fairly with an  employee  who  has  submitted  a
      complaint, and to create an environment where the employee can be effective and feel comfortable.

      (c)   Injury Compensation.  The system must contain content and feature/functionality specifically addressing Injury  Compensation  program
      and case management that provides counsel to management officials, union representatives, and  injured  workers  to  handle  virtually  all
      injury compensation claims that arise in the course of employment.   The system must provide digital case processing  and  management  with
      online forms and links all parties involved.  The system must also include content on coverage for traumatic  and  non-traumatic  injuries,
      basic eligibility provisions, the procedure to initiate and process a timely claim, the acceptable  methods  to  follow  in  order  for  an
      employee to return to work as well as the reports and forms that are required to document a case for an  injured  worker  receiving  either
      partial or total disability compensation. This module digitizes Office of Workers' Compensation Programs  processing  and  case  management
      with on-line forms and links to related case law.

       4.7. Enterprise Learning Management.  The system must provide a comprehensive, enterprise class, learning management system  for  employee
      development. This includes e-learning, classic training, developmental  activities,  competency  assessments,  career  ladder  development,
      promotion readiness, management development, classroom/instructor logistics management and training effectiveness  assessment.  The  system
      must enable employees to select training opportunities and track their own progress as they develop competencies  key  to  their  position.
      Employees attending training must be solicited at periodic intervals for feedback  concerning  training  effectiveness  to  provide  for  a
      longitudinal view of the effect of training on actual job performance.

      For managers, the system must provide global tracking of their workforce's skill sets and developmental needs. Managers  must  be  able  to
      approve employee requests, track the progress of employees, view employee promotion or advancement readiness, and  correlate  developmental
      activities to job performance (via the performance optimization module). Managers must also be able to view the skills of employees  across
      their business unit and determine broader organizational training needs. Managers must also be provided  with  coaching  content  regarding
      training and employee development issues including various options about the development of competencies.

      The system must have the capability to provide budgetary data and reports to track expenditures during the year and provide  other  reports
      about instructor or course effectiveness, employee interests, attendance rates, and other metrics.

      4.8.  Organizational Forecasting, including succession planning.  The system must have the capability to assist line managers and staff
      professionals in analysis, scenario planning, and forecasting of organizations, as well as succession planning.  It must provide total
      payroll cost information for the current and projected organization. In addition, the system must have the capability to use workforce
      behavior profiles to project key events across multiple years and their resulting impact on people, the organization’s costs, and the
      manager’s overall plans. This includes projecting retirements, attrition, cycle time to fill positions, typical length of service, and
      similar factors. These profiles should identify key events that will require managerial intervention, such as when to begin recruiting,
      discussion of promotions, or conversion of contract employees to permanent.

      With respect to succession planning, system must provide detailed information, by business unit, concerning the skills and capabilities
      represented by the employees within that unit, employees in the organization overall, and job requirements as presented by the positions
      defined within the unit. The system must provide line managers and staff professionals access to both top-level and specific information
      regarding current skills and the projection of skills needs in the near future. Workforce behavioral profiles, including retirement and
      promotion patterns for the organization, should identify key skill requirements and the currently available internal talent meeting such
      requirements. The system must be able to graphically represent the potential bench strength for each individual position and to list
      employees that meet projected future requirements. Employee development activities, designed to build bench strength, should be identified
      for each employee and work in conjunction with the enterprise learning management module to generate individual employee development plans.


      4.9.  Salary Management.  The system must contain content and feature/functionality that provides guidance to managers about their budget,
      payroll expenditures, authorized positions, incumbency of positions, likely near-term budget scenarios, and forecasted actions affecting
      salary and payroll (e.g., promotions due, cost of living increases, retirements, etc.). The system must be able to depict the manager’s
      business unit in organizational chart form and to assess the unit against commonly accepted or desired organizational metrics (e.g.,
      supervisor-to-employee ratios, journey vs. trainee ratios, average grades, average tenure, etc.). The system must offer decision-support to
      help define actions each manager should consider based on forecasted trends and help managers to reduce cycle time between workforce events
      and corrective, supplemental, or replenishment actions.

      In addition, the system must provide managers with expert content  concerning  compensation  flexibilities,  various  compensation  systems
      including Title V, Title 38, Title 42, broad banding, Senior Executive Service, Special Salary Rates, and best practices  in  compensation,
      including situation-specific advice and guidance designed to assist managers in day-to-day decision-making about performance,  recruitment,
      retention and other bonuses.
      4.10. Time and Attendance.  The system must contain content and feature/functionality that provides a complete and cost-effective time and
      attendance solution that helps large enterprises ensure compliance while dramatically reducing costs and generating significant increases
      in employee productivity. The system must automate100% of federal pay rules, process retroactive adjustments, provide labor and production
      metrics, real-time rules processing. The system must include flexible timesheet options for capturing and calculating salaried and non-
      salaried employee pay, employee profile management, and employee, team and payroll consoles to quickly approve timesheets and manage
      exceptions, and labor and productivity costing enabling better decision-making. The system must also include complete leave management
      functionality that enables an organization to manage and track leave requested by employees. The system must allow for the exchange of time
      and attendance data with an organization’s payroll software system for payroll calculation.
      4.11. Bi-Directional Payroll System Interface.  The system must include a bi-directional interface to the client’s payroll system that  not
      only seamlessly transmits the personnel action request action to the payroll system, but must also provide  the  ability  to  combine  data
      resident in the payroll system with position data resident in the offeror’s system for real time reporting and visibility on  the  agency’s
      workforce.

      4.12. Personnel Action Request Workflow.  The Personnel Action Request (PAR) workflow system, included as part of the offering, must  cover
      100% of the “SF-52” personnel actions, routed appropriately to approving officials, verifiers, and other  process  participants,  and  must
      ultimately generate as an output a .pdf form SF-52 (or its equivalent),  which  can  also  be  printed  for  hard  copy,  together  with  a
      transaction file that can be transferred to the payroll system or electronic OPF to fulfill certain personnel transactions.


1 4.13. Ad Hoc Reporting across all modules.  The offeror’s system must be able to incorporate payroll data and position information and  permits
      the user to construct ad-hoc reports on all data within the system, including data imported from other systems such as  the  HRIS,  finance
      and accounting systems.  The system must include graphing and data display tools for enhanced insight and actionability. In  addition,  all
      reports performed by a user must be able to be saved by the user for repeat use.  Finally, the system must allow report data to  be  easily
      “dumped out” into csv files should the user need to employ more rigorous analysis and modeling tools.


5. Technical and Environmental Requirements.  The contractor’s offering will provide access  to  the  digital  services  via  the  Internet,  and
perform all operations “server side” without the use of “cookies”, downloads of code, or any client-side software whatsoever.

The contractor shall provide the entire remaining IT structure, which will include:

    ✓ Physical Data Center Security
    ✓ All Hardware, Including Routers, Switches, Servers, and Storage Devices
    ✓ Telecommunications from the Data Center to the Internet
    ✓ Data Security and Transmission to the Customer
    ✓ Software and Database Upgrade Services
    ✓ 24x7x365 Tier 1, 2, and 3 Call Center Help
    ✓ Management Reporting Services
    ✓ Personnel Security
    ✓ Detection, Thwart, Reporting, Prevention, and Resolution of Actual and Attempted Security Breaches and Cyber-Terrorism
    ✓ Guaranteed 95% Access and Availability for All Users
    ✓ Increased Capacity Availability for Surge Periods




All of these services are to be included in the extranet delivery system, eliminating the need for  the  customer  to  support  the  services  by
creating, staffing, and maintaining its own IT infrastructure.

The subscription will be self-contained with both the  data  (content)  and  the  data  and  database  maintenance  associated  with  keeping  it
functioning.  The subscription will include optimization of the database, customization of data and content, maintenance of the data, storage  of
data on behalf of the customer, specialized reports, and archiving.

The hardware must be a multi-user  and  multi-tracking  system,  which,  in  conjunction  with  the  database  software,  allows  multiple  users
simultaneous access to the same data.

The system's environment must consist of either Microsoft's .Net or Sun Microsystems Java2 Enterprise  Edition  (J2EE)  architecture,  in  either
case using an Oracle database.  The system must be accessible through a standard internet browser on the user's  system  anywhere  the  user  can
access the internet.  The system must provide role-based security all the way down to the individual user level and  must  operate  100%  “server
side”, without the need for client-side software program installation, including downloads, “cookies”, or the need for web-emulation  tools  such
as Citrix. The system must have an XML interaction portal that allows for movement of data from one system to the next, and  the  integration  of
each component.

The system must be an extranet product with a secure server sitting within  the  vendor's  environment.   The  server  environment  must  include
monitoring on a 24 X 7 basis of the following components:  network access; server  availability;  physical  security;  computer  room  conditions
(uninterrupted power supply (UPS), power, heating/cooling); and system backup and data restore processing.

The contractor shall maintain system redundancy, including alternate network pathing within the  Data  Center  and  to  the  Internet;  alternate
connectivity paths to the disk storage units; n+1 redundancy for power supplies within the database,  application,  firewall  and  authentication
servers; alternate electrical power supply via uninterrupted power supply (UPS) and generator facilities should be supplied in  the  event  of  a
major power outage at the data centers; performing disk, central processing unit  (CPU)  and  memory  threshold  monitoring,  configurations  and
tuning at the data centers; and performing daily operational functions at the data centers.

The system shall provide sufficient bandwidth from the data center to the Internet for the purpose of transmitting and receiving data.   It  must
also have sufficient processing speed and database storage to provide good to excellent user response time for an estimated user base  of  up  to
200,000 people.

The system must be Section 508 compliant.

The system must be totally integrated with each component so that data within the system can  be  used  by  any  module,  and  must  be  able  to
interface with other systems outside of the existing environment such as payroll or finance  systems.   The  system  must  provide  for  flexible
communications and connectivity for the user to the system's applications.


6. Specific Requirements
Requirements marked as “High” must be available upon the completion of the transition period, which could be thirty (30) days or sixty (60) days
if the Government chooses to allow a 30 day extension.  If the Contractor cannot meet all of the requirements marked as “High” by the end of the
implementation period, the Government may unilaterally cancel the contract at no cost to the Government.  Requirements marked as “Medium” must
be available within 12 months of contract award.  If the Contractor cannot meet all of the requirements marked as “Medium” within 12 months of
contract award, the Government may terminate the contract at no additional cost.

See attached Requirements List

Consists of:           Appendix A: Functional Requirements
                 Appendix B: Technical Requirements
                 Appendix C: Security Requirements


7. Deliverables and Delivery Schedule


      The Contractor shall have thirty (30) days from the date of contract award to have its automated system fully ready for OJP use, including
      successfully receiving a Certification and Accreditation (C&A) from the OJP, subject to one 30 day extension that may be granted at the
      Government's sole discretion.  If the Contractor is unable to meet this schedule, the Government may in its discretion cancel the contract
      at no cost and award the contract to the next offeror in line for award based on the criteria in the solicitation.


8. Government-Furnished Equipment and Government Furnished Information

OJP will provide access to conference room and training facilities, computer work stations for training, as well as equipment for the
presentation and training activities.  OJP will provide the necessary information for user licenses, employee data, email addresses etc., in
compliance with all security requirements.

9. Place of Performance

The primary place of performance is:

The Office of Justice Programs
Office of Administration
Human Resources Division
810 7th Street, NW SU 3300
Washington DC  20150

10. Period of Performance

The initial period of performance is April 1, 2010 to September 30, 2010, and annually thereafter

