Section C - Statement of WORK – Health Care Quality Information Systems (HCQIS) Infrastructure and Data Center Support (HIDS)





































































































































































































































































Section C - Statement of WORK - HCQIS Infrastructure and Data Center Support (HIDS)



Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the HIDS contractor (hereafter referred to as the “Contractor”) shall be required to furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the Statement of Work (SoW) below:

C.1 INTRODUCTION

The Center for Clinical Standards and Quality (CCSQ) mission is to improve healthcare outcomes, beneficiary experience of care, and population health while reducing health care costs. Within CCSQ, the Information Systems Group (ISG) mission is to architect, build and support innovative health care IT systems that focus on optimizing CCSQ quality programs.



This Statement of Work describes the products and services required to manage and operate the Healthcare Quality Information Systems (HCQIS) infrastructure and Data Center supporting CMS’ quality improvement programs run by the CCSQ.  



This contract is for  one (1) twelve(12) month base period and nine (9) twelve (12) month option periods.  All efforts shall be performed in accordance with Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) requirements and shall meet ISG objectives of continuous improvement around efficiency and effectiveness of operations, timely implementation of systems designed to meet statutory and regulatory requirements, and providing high-quality services and support to the user community and CMS business partners.



C.1.1 Background 



HCQIS is comprised of a central data center currently located in Warrenton, VA and a data network supporting servers and desktop systems located throughout the U.S. at Quality Improvement Organizations (QIO), End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Networks, and a Clinical Data Abstraction Center (CDAC).   

The HCQIS infrastructure and network support major application environments to collect clinical data and measure quality of care for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.   The primary programs and applications include, but are not limited to:



Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs) and the Clinical Data Abstraction Center (CDAC);

Quality Reporting and Value Based Purchasing(VBP) for Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS), End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD), Hospital Quality Reporting (HQR), Hospital Inpatient and Outpatient quality reporting;

Ambulatory Surgical Centers, Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities, and Cancer Hospital Reporting;  

Consolidated Renal Operations in a Web-Enabled Network (CROWNWeb), ESRD Quality Incentive Program (QIP) and Renal Management Information System (REMIS);

Quality Improvement and Evaluation System (QIES) for Long Term Care and Post-Acute Care Provider assessments and CMS and State surveyors;



Section C.2 Scope of Work describes the range of functions and services required to support these systems and programs in more detail.  In general, the services fall into the following categories of work:

HCQIS support for Engineering and Architecture to support the above applications;

Build-out and configuration of all hardware, operating systems, middleware and tools within HCQIS;

Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of the infrastructure and systems supporting the above applications;

Help Desk support for end-users of the above applications;

Production control support for the above applications;

Help Desk, File/Print and e-mail services, systems administration and desktop support for both ESRD and QIO contractor facilities;

IT Security, Information Assurance, and Identity Management for all HCQIS systems.



Additionally, the HCQIS infrastructure contractor is expected to closely collaborate with ISG’s other primary contractors to provide seamless IT services to CCSQ business owners and users.  These other contractors are described below:



Program Management Business Requirements (PMBR).  PMBR is responsible for program management, project management, day-to-day project oversight, business process modelling and business requirements and user story development.

Application Development Organizations (ADO).  ADOs are responsible for designing and developing software products that meet CMS technical and security standards, satisfy requirements, and perform efficiently.  Additionally, ADOs are responsible for the performance of their products, unit testing, and Quality Assurance (QA) testing.

Reporting and Analytics (R&A).  R&A provides ad hoc reporting and complex data analytic services to ISG and CCSQ programs.

Quality Improvement and Evaluation System (QIES).   (QIES) is CMS’ key tracking, analysis, and data repository system for Medicare, Medicaid, and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) provider quality of care.  

Testing Services Contract (TSC).  TSC provides end-to-end oversight of testing throughout the development lifecycle and performs Independent Validation and Verification (IV&V) testing services.





CCSQ’s data center operates on a combination of Oracle (formerly Sun) and HP Wintel platforms.  These systems run Solaris, Red Hat Linux, and Windows operating systems using UNIX and Windows virtualization technologies.  Most applications are developed using an Oracle stack incorporating WebLogic, Oracle Service Bus, and Oracle development tools to access Oracle databases.  Network communications is provided by Cisco equipment and primary storage uses EMC’s VMAX storage area network (SAN) technology.  The entire suite of products, platforms, and tools used in the data center to support HCQIS is outlined in detail in Appendices’ C.A, C.B, C.C, and C.E. All IT assets are Government Owned assets and will need to be transitioned from outgoing Contractor to the incoming Contractor.



The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act was passed as part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) of 2009.  As noted in the HITECH Act, CMS has been charged with defining "meaningful use" of certified electronic health record (EHR) technology and developing incentive payment programs for Medicare and Medicaid providers.

For 2012, CMS moved toward closer alignment with other quality measurement programs, including HITECH and the Medicare Shared Savings Program.  In doing so, some of the current Physician Quality Reporting System reporting options were modified or discontinued.  Data Submission Vendors (DSV) was added as well as a separate incentive payment for eligible professionals who satisfactorily participate in the Physician Quality Reporting System and participate in a Maintenance of Certification Program.  In addition, CMS will publicly report the performance results of the group practices participating in the Physician Quality Reporting System Group Practice Reporting Option (GPRO).







C.1.2 Assumptions and Constraints



CMS wants to make clear that the contractors are viewed as experts in the area of data center operations.  Therefore, the information contained in this document is for information purposes only.  CMS will rely on the contractors to determine how services are to be delivered, monitored and evaluated.  In the event information provided in this document is contrary to industry best practice or the contractor’s standard operating procedure, the Contractor shall clearly indicate the contradiction and present their recommended best practice approach so as to encourage dialogue between CMS and the Contractor, working toward a mutually agreeable solution.

C.1.2.1   Assumptions

The Contract establishes certain assumptions:

The Contractor shall verify the quality of work products through formalized internal reviews and audits.  

If the Contractor receives direction it considers outside of the scope of this SoW or contrary to any of its terms and conditions, the Contractor shall withhold performance on the directive in question and immediately notify the Contracting Officer (CO) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) in writing as to the specific discrepancies and proposed corrective actions. 

The Contractor shall provide all deliverables listed in Section F.8.  

The Contractor is responsible for the disposition of the data and information collected for this project.  Any data or information containing personal health information (PHI) falls under HIPAA regulations and must be handled, stored, protected, and disposed of in accordance with HIPAA guidelines and the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002.

The Contractor is required to follow all Federal, CMS, and HCQIS guidelines for maintaining the security of privacy and sensitive data.

The Contractor shall not develop any applications, code, tools, etc. that have not been approved by CMS. CMS prefers the use of commercial or government off the shelf products where feasible and cost effective. 

CMS prefers web-based, zero footprint applications where feasible and cost effective.

The Contractor shall not use any proprietary precuts, processes, hardware, software, etc. unless approved by CMS.

All products, processes, methods, models and algorithms created under this contract are the sole property of CMS.

C.1.2.2 Constraints

The following constraints affect Contractor’s eligibility to compete for tasks in a specific Phase:

Contract tasks are subject to Software Engineering Institute (SEI®) Capability Maturity Model Integration® (CMMI®) level 3 requirements.  Therefore, Contractors who are unable to demonstrate process maturity at this level for industry standard practices for operating large scale, complex data centers shall be deemed unqualified and restricted from competing for the work.  

Contract tasks have built-in gate reviews (checkpoints) that require CMS to formally authorize continuation or termination of the effort by the Contractor.  

The Contractor shall not perform any work outside of the United States unless approved by CMS.  This includes subcontractors and consultants. 

The Contractor shall not develop any applications, code or tools that have not been approved by CMS.  CMS prefers the use of Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) or Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) products where feasible and cost effective. 

The Contractor shall not use any open-source products unless they have obtained prior written approval from ISG group-level management.

The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that all products delivered meet design objectives and is of good quality, including system software, firmware, physical equipment and engineered systems.

The Contractor shall comply with all federal regulatory requirements for Section 508 compliance, the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Federal Information Systems Management Act (FISMA) in the performance of this SoW.



C.1.3 Purpose



The purpose of this Statement of Work (SoW) is to obtain contract services for managing, implementing, operating and supporting technical components of the HCQIS environment.  This support is wide-ranging, covering areas such as:

Hosting a data center

Network management

UNIX and Microsoft server management

Configuration management and change control

IT infrastructure and data center operations 

Stress and performance testing

Project management

Security

Help Desk

Procurement

Production control and operations

QIO and CDAC server and network systems administration

ESRD server and network systems administration

File and print services

E-mail services

Desktop support



The intent is to engage a Contractor able to provide high quality IT services and the ability to expand in scope, complexity and capacity to meet the dynamic needs of CCSQ during the transformation of the nation’s healthcare through the implementation of quality and value-based payment programs.  As such, the Contractor shall proactively manage the evolutionary growth and expansion of the HCQIS and associated IT services.  Furthermore, the critical nature of the programs supported by HCQIS requires that the Contractor shall use recognized best practices for IT engineering and architecture, data center operations and management, help desk support, and sustain CMMI Level III process maturity in all functional service areas.    




C.2 Scope of Work

The scope of work for the HCQIS Infrastructure and Data Center Support (HIDS) contract are described in the following sections. In general, the Contractor is responsible for IT program and project management, infrastructure design and engineering, environment builds and code deployments, data center operation and production and end user/desktop support of the HCQIS.

HCQIS Data Center contains a large inventory of IT assets, including but not limited to:

Application software and databases

Systems software and middleware

Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) products, tools, and applications

Licenses and certificates

Physical and Virtual Servers and Workstations

Network equipment and security appliances

Online storage equipment, virtual tape libraries, and tape drives

Facility/environmental equipment and controls  

Cabling and wiring

Due to the dynamic nature of HCQIS Data Center, the inventory of IT assets changes on a frequent and regular basis.  The latest accounting of HCQIS IT Assets is summarized in Appendix C.A.  The Contractor shall be responsible for procurement, engineering, management and active maintenance of all HCQIS IT inventory as defined above.  The inventory shall be maintained in Remedy (as stated in section C.2.3.4) with on demand reporting available to CMS as needed.  Key reports for physical assets shall be readily available.  Customized reports shall be available within two weeks of the request.

In addition, the Contractor shall provide facilities, IT operations and desktop/helpdesk support for all HCQIS IT Systems.  A list of current major HCQIS Applications and Services is listed in Appendix C.B.  Due to dynamic and ever changing nature of HCQIS programs, additional LOB applications and/or services may be added in the future.

The scope of the HIDS contract includes management and support of a wide variety of IT hardware and software.  Appendix C.C is a comprehensive list of the products the Contractor shall update, patch, configure, and operate within the scope of this SoW and includes:

Application architecture components

Hardware and software platforms and components

External integration components

WAN interfaces, email, internet, video conferencing components 

User interfaces, portal products

Storage and data management, storage area networks (SAN) and their associated components

HCQIS Data Center and Network Operation Center/Security Operations Center (NOC/SOC)

HCQIS Network and Devices

IT Help Desk

Application Monitoring and Performance

The HCQIS Wide Area Network (WAN) management and monitoring, to include all circuits and links. 

All HCQIS systems and networks in the HCQIS Infrastructure to include HCQIS Data Center and all supported locations. Remote support of the government furnished IT equipment and software for all of the HCQIS application development organizations (ADO).

Remote support and coordination of government furnished IT equipment and software located at QIO’s and ESRD Networks throughout the regional United States. The systems are primarily Microsoft servers/workstations leveraging an Active Directory model. 



These responsibilities described above are considered baseline responsibilities.  HCQIS is a dynamic and growing environment and the Contractor should demonstrate ability to respond to rapidly changing requirements.

C.2.1 Program Management Strategy



The Contractor shall provide Administrative, Program Management, Project Management, and Communications support to all tasks in this SoW.

C.2.1.1 Program Management

The Contractor shall apply sound program management principles and practices to infrastructure projects, initiatives, pilots and the overall data center operations and maintenance in order to ensure efficiency and successful performance of the contract.



The Contractor shall provide ongoing program management of all activities to include:



Guidance and management of project teams; 

Improvements and changes to project and operational processes; 

Resource allocation to projects and operations;

Reviews of significant deliverables and artifacts; 

Maintenance of infrastructure project and task schedules; 

Submission of status reports as required and/or requested by CMS;

Program financial and contract management; and

Management and execution of multiple projects.



The Contractor shall submit a detailed Program Management Plan to reflect all tasks as specified in the Deliverable Schedule. A weekly master project schedule of all projects and activities shall be provided to CMS for incorporation with the Integrated Master Schedule (IMS). The IMS is the single master schedule of all HCQIS IT Projects across various HCQIS contractors and is managed and maintained by the PMBR Contractor.

C.2.1.2 Project Management

Project management support for HCQIS Enterprise Services and LOB IT systems development and enhancement projects involving multiple CMS contractors are provided by the PMBR Contractor.  The Contractor shall be required to provide input to PMBR regarding tasks related to the scope of this SoW. This input includes identifying tasks, levels of effort, key milestones, and resource assignments.  Additionally, the Contractor shall identify risks and issues associated with their work on these projects.



The Contractor for this SoW is also required to provide project management services for those projects which are entirely within the scope of the HIDS Contract such as installation of COTS products in the HCQIS Infrastructure,  data center operational improvement initiatives, desktop refreshes, implementation of new tools or products, and other significant efforts requiring coordination, planning, and control.  The Contractor shall follow fundamental project management principles and structured methods such as those delineated in the Project Management Institute’s Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) and conform to CMS ISG project management governance. 



The Contractor shall provide project management support on all significant infrastructure enhancement phases including planning, design, engineering, implementation and project close-out as defined in this Statement of Work including but not limited to the following:



The Contractor shall provide Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) and updates as required by CMS.  The Contractor shall prepare a Project Management Plan and provide/maintain a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) that outlines the major tasks and subtasks necessary to complete the work in accordance with ISG IT governance standards.

The Contractor shall submit detailed project schedule and provide updates as required by CMS.

The Contractor shall ensure that the WBS include for each task dependences, level of effort, duration (start and end dates), resource assignments and milestone dates.

The Contractor shall submit weekly Project Status Reports outlining completed tasks, upcoming tasks, risks, issues and schedule. 

For projects being managed by the Contractor, the Contractor shall conduct periodic status calls and meetings to discuss work activities, timelines, risks, issues and participate in calls with project stakeholders and participants as directed by the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and/or GTL(s).



C.2.1.2.1 Risk and Issue Management



The Contractor shall provide and maintain a Risk Management Plan for the successful execution of all projects and operations including identification, prioritization, and mitigation of key project and program risks. The Contractor shall also report and coordinate its risk management approach and mitigation efforts with CMS, other Contractors, and other stakeholders.  The key risk management activities the Contractor shall perform include but not limited to:

Develop risk management processes that encourage the rigorous identification of risks and continuing assessment/reassessment of risk exposure;

Ensure timely risk handling decisions to prevent negative consequences;

Develop effective contingency and mitigation plans sufficiently early to preempt ad hoc reactions; 

Track and monitor risk status; and

Monitor and ensure mitigation action are planned and executed.



As risks are realized and issues arise, the Contractor shall provide and maintain an Issue Management Plan.  The Contractor shall prioritize each issue and develop a list of actionable steps that need to be taken to bring issues to closure.  The Contractor shall routinely provide a report on issues and elevate those that are critical and need immediate attention.



C.2.1.2.2 Communications Management



The Contractor shall provide and maintain a Communication Management Plan for the successful communication between the Contractor, CMS, other Contractors and stakeholders for all projects and tasks under this SoW. CMS emphasizes that the Contractor’s approach to communications shall be proactive, timely and adequate when risks or issues exist that may adversely impact operations, service to stakeholders, public perception, personnel safety or contractual compliance. The Contractor shall advise CMS in advance when possible of any indication that a potential problem may be developing with these ramifications. In the case of a known impending risk or issue, the Contractor shall be forthcoming with CMS to address the problem and assist when appropriate with identifying mitigation strategies and actions.



C.2.1.2.3 Collaboration and Meetings



The Contractor shall work in cooperative and collaborative business arrangement with CMS, CMS’ external partners and other CMS contractors.  The Contractor shall comply with the following requirements to achieve an effective, collaborative environment in the execution of the tasks in this SoW:



Contractors shall promptly provide CMS and other CMS contractors with full access to project-related work products and deliverables as directed by CMS.

Contractors shall provide CMS and other CMS contractors with access and visibility into internal project and operational processes and practices as directed by CMS, except processes designated in advance as proprietary by the Contractor in their response to this SoW.

Contractors shall facilitate a collaborative environment by:

Providing prompt and complete responses to CMS and CMS Contractors’ requirements for project-related work products and deliverables within and between tasks and subtasks of the CMMI Services Model;

Fostering and practicing open communications that promote smooth transitions between tasks and phases and interoperability among work products;

Publishing schedules and participating in meetings to ensure clear communications between Contractors at all times;

Publishing communication plans that describe the Contractor's approach for ensuring a free flow of information and products among the partnership (CMS and Contractors); and

Identifying issues and risks that span within and across HCQIS.

Contractors shall be held accountable for positive and negative collaboration performance that advances or impedes the ability of CMS, and other contractors to perform effectively.



The Contractor shall participate as appropriate in meetings (meetings may occur via conference call or in person and the Contractor shall be required to attend within 24 hours of notice) as needed to comply with CMS IT governance and systems development life cycle policy and practices. The Contractor shall supply meeting materials as requested. These meetings may include:



HCQIS Change Control Board (CCB) 

HCQIS QualityNet Configuration Management Board (QCMB)

Application Status

HCQIS QualityNet Technical Review Board (QTRB)

Technical Review Board (TRB)  

User Group Calls 

Joint Application Development (JAD) and workgroup 

Infrastructure upgrades and operations/maintenance 

Management 

User Councils 

Other meetings as requested 

C.2.1.3 Quality and Process Management

The Contractor shall be responsible for identifying, correcting, and improving on key internal management processes that govern the Contractor’s ability to deliver high-quality services and ensure that the critical enterprise-level integration requirements and collaboration objectives are met. The Contractor shall establish, implement and maintain a quality assurance program to ensure consistent quality for all work products delivered and services performed under this SoW.  The Contractor shall document its quality assurance program in a Quality Assurance Plan.



Contractors shall provide evidence of required Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Level III practices upon request by CMS prior to the award of this contract and at any time during the period of performance of this SoW. The Contractor shall conduct two CMMI SCAMPI Class A appraisals for Level III assessment during the ten-year PoP of this contract with the first appraisal taking place no later than the completion of the second base year of the contract.

C.2.1.4 Earned Value Management 

The Contractor shall monitor cost, schedule, and technical performance for the overall program and large-scale projects as defined by CMS. Earned Value Management (EVM) shall be used by the Contractor to effectively integrate the project technical scope of work with schedule and cost elements for optimum project planning and control.  



The Contractor shall use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) that complies with ANSI/EIA Standard EIA-748-A for all work executed under this contract including  its subcontractors.  

The Contractor shall assess, quantify, and forecast trends; analyze variances; and facilitate development and implementation of corrective actions.  

The Contractor shall be certified by a Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA).  The certification must be for the functional organization performing the work.

In the performance of this contract, the Contractor shall create and follow a System Description for their Program Management Control System (PMCS).  This Government-approved document shall describe how the Contractor manages cost and schedule on the program in an EVM-compliant manner.  The System Description must comply with the EVM Guidelines (ANSI/EIA Standard EIA-748-A).

The Contractor shall not re-baseline its performance measurement baseline without the prior permission from CMS.  

The Contractor shall not, under any circumstances, adjust cost performance data (Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS), Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP), and Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP)) from prior months.  Any errors, accounting adjustments or approved re-base lining actions shall be recorded as a single point adjustment in the current reporting month.

The Contractor shall provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by CMS or its duly authorized representative to monitor the compliance of the Contractor’s actual program/project management procedures with its PMCS.

The Contractor shall ensure that its teaming partners, major subcontractors, and other program suppliers comply with the intent of the EVM Guidelines and report their monthly EVM data accurately and in time for inclusion in the Contractor's Cost Performance Report (CPR).  CPR Formats 1–5 shall be used for formal EVM reporting.  



C.2.1.4.1 EVM System Review



For each period of performance, at a time mutually agreeable to both CMS and the Contractor, the Contractor shall make appropriate staff available for an EVM System Review/Integrated Baseline Review (IBR).  The goal of the System Review will be to ensure that the Contractor’s PMCS:



The format and content of the IBR shall be in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.234-2, FAR 52.234-3, FAR 52.234-4;

Provides timely and reliable cost, schedule and technical performance measurement information summarized directly from the Contractor’s internal management system;

Complies with the EVM guidelines EVMS guidelines contained in the American National Standards Institute Electronic Industries Alliance (ANSI/EIA) 748, and

CMS Earned Value Management System guidance;



Provides timely indications of actual or potential problems;

Maintains baseline integrity;

Provides information that depicts actual conditions and trends; and

Provides comprehensive variance analysis at the appropriate levels including proposed corrective action concerning cost, schedule, technical, and other problem areas.

The System Review will focus on major system activities and problem identification to ensure the greatest return for resources expended.  The review will rely heavily on interviews with individual Control Account Managers (CAM) to ensure that they have adequate knowledge of the PMCS and to ensure that they are familiar with all of their CAM responsibilities.



The System Review team will consist of CMS personnel and Contractor team members.  The Contractor shall be prepared to discuss the following topics:



Data Analysis and Reporting

Performance Measurement

Program Budget Planning

Subcontract Planning and Control

Work Authorization

Organization 

Scheduling



At the conclusion of each System Review, the team will prepare a list of items that require correction or further explanation and will go over the list with the Contractor’s management team.  At the beginning of each System Review, the team will review the action item list with the Contractor’s management team and will assess the provided corrections and explanations.



CMS may also request additional Systems Reviews/Integrated Baseline Reviews during the period of performance for all contract tasks or specific tasks as changes occur.





C.2.1.4.2 Contractor’s EVM Self-Monitoring Responsibilities



The Contractor shall establish and conduct an internal monitoring program to ensure that it continues to follow the EVM Guidelines and that it’s PMCS is implemented and used correctly on the program.  The Contractor will note all instances in which its PMCS is not being followed correctly or where its processes are contrary to the EVM Guidelines, and will ensure that these instances are corrected and not repeated.  The Contractor shall also ensure that its team members and subcontractors comply with the EVM Guidelines and will ensure that instances of non-compliance are corrected and not repeated.



C.2.1.4.3 Earned Value Contract Performance Report



The Contractor shall prepare and submit a Contract Performance Report (CPR) each month describing the amount of work scheduled and achieved to date and the actual costs associated with that work.  The CPR consists of the following five (5) report formats:



Format 1 – provides data to measure cost and schedule performance by product-oriented Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) elements, the hardware, software, and services to the Government; 

Format 2 – provides the same data as Format 1 by the Contractor’s organization (functional or Integrated Product Team (IPT) structure); 

Format 3 – provides the budget baseline plan against which performance is measured; 

Format 4 – provides staffing forecasts for correlation with the budget plan and cost estimates; and 

Format 5 – is a narrative report used to explain significant cost and schedule variances and other identified contract problems and topics.



C.2.1.4.4 Management Review



The Contractor shall conduct monthly Management Reviews as a forum for the Contractor and CMS to discuss program and project status.  The primary focus will be the status against the Program Management Plan baseline and the Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB).  The Management Review shall include:



An overview of the project status with a focus on outstanding issues and risks; 

A detailed overview of tasks planned for the next three months; 

A high-level overview of major milestones planned for the next 12 months;  

A description of the progress that has been made in Process Improvement activities; and

Provide a bi-annual financial review.

C.2.1.5 Incoming Transition Plan

During the incoming transition period, CMS will provide the new Contractor a training schedule and a schedule of events that will include the following:



Transition milestones and timeframes, including a detailed timeline for work-in-progress and production cutovers;

A comprehensive listing of the responsibilities of all personnel participating in the transition to include the policies, practices and procedures to be employed by the incumbent contractor to ensure there is no conflict between routine system maintenance and the activities of the transition;

An in-depth schedule and thorough description of the methodology to be employed by the incumbent contractor to ensure no degradation of service during the transition period;

A risk management plan and issue management plan that includes a list of the potential risks during the transition period and the plan to mitigate each;

A complete and detailed resource-planning/resource-turnover analysis; and

Any travel necessary to support the transition.



In collaboration with CMS and the incumbent contractor, the Contractor shall deliver a final transition plan within 4 weeks of award.



C.2.1.6 Joint Operating Agreement

The new Contractor shall establish a Joint Operation Agreement (JOA) with the incumbent Contractor within seven calendar days of completion of the transition plan.  Not more than two (2) weeks after notification by CMS that the contract has been awarded, the new Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and Government Task Leaders (GTLs) a draft written agreement. The purpose of the agreement is to establish a process for managing the workload while both contracts are in place and to also establish a process to fully transition the workload from the incumbent contract to the new contract.  The agreement shall illustrate the manner in which the two entities will maintain support during the transition of the work from the incumbent's contract to the new contract including methods that will be used to communicate and coordinate activities to communicate to CMS. The agreement shall be delivered by the new Contractor and reviewed and approved by the CMS GTL and COR.



 During this transition period, the new Contractor shall work with CMS and the incumbent(s) to ensure a smooth transition. Both the incumbent Contractor and the new Contractor shall sign the agreement.  The agreement shall define the responsibilities for all Contractors (both incumbent and new) and shall be submitted to CMS for approval before final signatures are obtained.  



In addition, as part of the agreement, CMS, the incumbent Contractor and the new Contractor shall form a joint team that will be managed by CMS to ensure that communication, coordination, cooperation, and consultation among all entities is maintained in support of the transition and ongoing work.  Such a team shall meet regularly (as defined by CMS) and shall monitor the work of any subgroups during transition and ongoing work.



Not later than seven calendar days after notification by CMS that the transition to a new Contractor shall take place, the new Contractor shall submit to the COR a Transition Plan.  All formats for documentation will be defined and/or approved by CMS. The Plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:



Transition milestones and timeframes, including a detailed timeline for work-in progress and production cutovers;

A  proposed  comprehensive  listing  of  the  responsibilities  of  all  personnel participating in the transition to include the policies, practices and procedures to be employed by the incumbent Contractor to ensure there is no conflict between routine system maintenance, current enterprise & project data model workload, and the activities of the transition;

A CMS approved in-depth schedule and thorough description of the methodology to be employed by the incumbent Contractor to ensure no degradation of service during the transition period;

A CMS approved risk management plan and issue management plan that includes a list of the potential risks during the transition period and the plan to mitigate each; and

A CMS approved complete and detailed resource-planning/resource-turnover analysis.



		 

C.2.2 Design and Engineering



The Contractor shall have primary responsibility in the design and engineering of infrastructure related changes, enhancements, and the implementation of new tools and technologies to improve HCQIS infrastructure and data center efficiency. The Contractor shall also collaborate with CMS, other contractors and product vendors to provide infrastructure design and engineering expertise during the development and enhancement of HCQIS IT systems and services. 



Infrastructure design and engineering includes but is not limited to:  network, servers,  workstations, storage (online and offline), security, building and facility including environmental controls and electricity, enterprise tools, and all information systems appliances used in the architecture of HCQIS IT systems and services.  This task includes the development of all technical documentation such as logical and physical design drawings required by the CMS Expedited Life Cycle (XLC) and Technical Review Board (TRB).



Design and engineering tasks defined under this section are projects and initiatives that add, change, or remove IT infrastructure to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the HCQIS infrastructure, data center, and operations and maintenance (O&M) activities. Ongoing O&M activities for HCQIS infrastructure are defined in section C.2.4. 

C.2.2.1 Enterprise-Wide Engineering

The Contractor shall propose and, upon CMS approval, engineer enterprise-wide changes to the HCQIS infrastructure, data center and processes to deliver cost-effective, high performing environments for hosting HCQIS enterprise software and databases.  



The HCQIS Infrastructure must be capable of handling increasing performance requirements. The Contractor shall engineer infrastructure architecture and components to be highly scalable and flexible to meet any system peaks and performance requirements in a very short time period.  



Enterprise-wide engineering tasks shall include industry best practices, tools, and proven techniques to improve the overall efficiency of the HCQIS Data Center and IT infrastructure. Sample enterprise-wide engineering focus areas include but are not limited to:



New technologies and modernization initiatives (see Section C2.6.2)

Continued adherence to CMS TRA requirements and CMS IT and Security policies

Adherence to IPv6 requirements per OMB M-05-22

Migration from stove piped LOB infrastructure to Enterprise Infrastructure

Server and data center virtualization

IT system and service performance improvement

High availability, scalability and performance

Network optimization

Application and service integration

Advanced enterprise storage solutions 

Disaster recovery/business continuity planning and implementation

Directory services

Security 

Secure large file transfers

Monitoring, detection and alerting





The Contractor shall provide an IT Integrated Management Plan (ITIMP) that defines a strategic vision for the HCQIS infrastructure and the recommended tactical implementation path six months after award and every six months thereafter.  The plan should address the future needs and plans for enterprise architecture, platforms, technologies, and tools needed to sustain a high level of performance among the applications running in the HCQIS environment.  The ITIMP shall include budgetary estimates for initial investment amounts and on-going O&M cost for a three-year planning horizon.

C.2.2.2 Network Design and Engineering

The Contractor shall research, plan, and engineer CMS approved changes and enhancements to the HCQIS network environment. Changes shall comply with CMS XLC, CMS and Federal security frameworks, and be implemented following CMS approved configuration and change management processes.  

Included among the network engineering tasks are:

Enhanced network management and monitoring

Videoconferencing over IP

Configuration and administration of external/Internet DNS servers

Collaboration technologies and unified communications technologies

Load balancing, fail-over and redundancy

Integration and changes associated with partner networks/touch points such as the CMS Office of Information Services (OIS), ESRD dialysis facilities and other business partners.  



Additional network engineering tasks (e.g., new or evolving external interfaces) are anticipated in the base year of the contract. Significant changes shall be authorized by CMS contract modification.



C.2.2.2.1 LAN Engineering



The Contractor shall provide the Local Area Network (LAN) engineering to include but not limited to the following:

Routing and switching

Remote access

Address assignment and inventory management

Network virtualization

Redundancy and failover

Security monitoring and alerting

Cabling and connectivity

Performance measurement, monitoring and alerting

C.2.2.2.2 WAN Engineering



All CMS Wide Area Network (WAN) services are provided through the Federal Government’s Network contract.  HCQIS circuits are installed and operated by a Network Service Provider and are monitored and managed by the infrastructure Contractor.  Collectively, the HCQIS WAN consists of multiple tiers of circuits that span the U.S. supporting QIOs, ESRD Networks, and the CDAC. These WAN components are in a perpetual state of evolution and growth due to changing business requirements and emerging technologies.  Current network design and architecture is subject to future changes to meet CMS business requirements. When and if appropriate, the Contractor should propose alternate WAN technologies that provide improved cost benefit to CMS. 



The Contractor shall research, plan for, and with CMS approval, engineer changes to the HCQIS network infrastructure using appropriate life cycle processes, following established CMS and Federal security frameworks, artifacts, and change management practices.  Sample near-term network engineering tasks include:

Enhanced network management 

Videoconferencing over IP phased implementation

External/Internet DNS servers

Internet Service Provider

Collaboration and unified communication technologies

Auditing and monitoring

Integration and changes associated with partner networks/touch points such as the CMS Office of Information Services (OIS), ESRD Dialysis facilities and other business partners as they arise.  



C.2.2.3 Server Engineering

The Contractor shall research, plan, and engineer CMS approved changes and enhancements to the HCQIS server environments across all life cycles. These servers are generally Wintel and UNIX platforms and typically include web servers, application servers and database servers. At CMS’ direction, the Contractor shall have the technical lead for changes within each server environment at each of the HCQIS facilities such as the data center and other locations. Changes shall comply with CMS XLC, CMS and Federal security frameworks, and HCQIS change management process. Listed below are representative server engineering tasks that the Contractor is required to perform:

Review, improve, and maintain standard build configurations;

Update Disaster Recovery plan (DR) and Business Continuity plan (BCP);

Design/engineering support for modifications/hardening of servers based upon USGCB changes/requirements;

Consolidate and increase performance for all server environments on an on-going basis (e.g. Unix, Wintel);

Design/engineering of the Active Directory environment;

Design/engineer images (physical and virtual servers) for HCQIS servers;

Ensure a “GOLD” standard is established and updated after each new configuration baseline is approved;

Ensure “GOLD” standard image is consistent across all life environments for all systems;

Integration into an LDAP-compliant database environment;

Server consolidation where applicable across the environment; 

Operating system upgrades;

Patching servers according to a patch management schedule; and

Any additional tasks as required



C.2.2.3.1 Server Virtualization



CMS is in the process of reevaluating its current standard within the TRA that requires physical partitioning of the three zone environment. The result of this evaluation process will be reflected in future versions of the TRA and TRA Supplements.  

CMS is challenging the Contractor to present solutions that will increase the use of virtualization while maintaining the highest level of security and reducing cost. This is in contrast to the physical implementation standards currently reflected in the TRA and TRA supplements.

CMS requires that the Contractor present CMS with options to leverage virtual technologies and clearly indicate the value proposition associated with every option.  



C.2.2.3.2 Automated Application Environment Build



The Contractor shall build and maintain application computing environments for all HCQIS IT application systems and services. The server and application computing environment involves  the allocation and configuration of hardware and software resources such as CPU, RAM, Virtual Machines, Web Servers, WebLogic, Oracle database, Middleware, SAN space etc. according to standards and specific application needs.

Due to frequent change in program requirements, it is imperative that the Contractor is able to support rapid implementations of new systems and releases. To accomplish this, the Contractor shall be able to build and operationalize server and application computing environments in all HCQIS regions (Development, QA Test, ITF, V&V, and Production) rapidly and within hours. The Contractor shall provide a mechanism to build server and application computing environments automatically and rapidly by using scripts and templates as well as one or more of the available tools such as Oracle Database Lifecycle Management Pack, Oracle WebLogic Server Lifecycle Management Pack, and Oracle Enterprise Manger.

Major tasks associated with automated application environment builds shall include but are not limited to:

Defining and creating VM templates for each standard component such as web server, WebLogic server, Oracle Service Bus, Oracle database, etc. and storing these templates in a software library of the Oracle tool set; and

Automated assembly and packaging of VM templates, configuration metadata, and components relationships metadata into a complete server and application computing environment.  

C.2.2.4 Workstation Engineering

The Contractor shall research, plan, and engineer CMS approved changes and enhancements to establish a standard HCQIS workstation configuration. The Contractor shall demonstrate the ability to procure, install, configure, maintain and manage all associated software, hardware, and images for each of the workstation platforms in HCQIS. Changes shall comply with CMS XLC, CMS and Federal security frameworks, and the HCQIS change management process. 

The Contractor will be responsible for, at a minimum, the following items: 

Research/test workstation endpoint platforms and recommend solutions for use within the HCQIS environment;

Adhere to the United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB);

Maintain a “GOLD” standard image for the HCQIS workstation platforms;

Establish and maintain a capability for self-extracted and automated image build workstations

Provide remote management capabilities for workstations  for trouble-shooting, pushing software, upgrades and patching;

Research/test  and upgrade as necessary enterprise workstation software that will be used on the HCQIS platforms including but not limited to:

VPN solutions

Endpoint security

Antivirus

Encryption

Compliance software

Virtual Desktop Imaging

Office applications such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Lync



Upon request from CMS, CMS requires that the Contractor evaluate, test and recommend desktop, laptop, and mobile technologies for suitable use among QIOs, ESRD Networks, CDAC, surveyors, and other users of HCQIS.  

C.2.2.5 Security Engineering

The Contractor shall develop appropriate security controls for CMS security requirements in accordance with the below-listed parameters:

Information Type 

Systems Security Level (Low, Moderate, or High as defined on the CMS) 

E-Authentication level (Level 1, 2, 3, 4, or N/A) 



The Contractor must coordinate with CMS to develop and/or clarify the above listed criteria within 30 days of contract award or when a major modification has been made to its internal system, as defined by the CMS CISO.

The Contractor shall provide security engineering to include but not limited to the following:

Intrusion Detection and Protection

Certificate Management

Firewalls

Host Intrusion Detection

Anti-virus Protection

XML Gateway Appliances

Monitoring and Alerting

Encryption

Access Control

Media Protection

Security Compliance

Data Loss Prevention



The Contractor shall maintain security compliance with existing security policies and with any new security policies. CMS requires that the Contractor provide CMS with security technology options and clearly indicate the value proposition associated with every option.

C.2.2.6 Physical Facility Design & Engineering

CMS requires that the Contractor provide physical facilities that offer a safe and controlled environment for HCQIS information system assets and data.  The physical facility security will provide multiple layers of protection for the entire facility.  The spectrum of this protection ranges from the physical building to security components in the server rooms.

The Contractor shall submit a Physical Facility Plan to describe how they will provide facility security in support of CMS policy.

The Physical Facility Plan must address the following items:

HCQIS data center shall be isolated from any other tenants’ resources.  This encompasses the physical building and environmental controls.  This will be accomplished in accordance with such data center best practices as doors that resist forceful entry, use of access control devices (e.g., card readers or key pads), deployment of a security guard force, use of a closed circuit television for visual surveillance, use of fully redundant HVAC, uninterruptible power supply (UPS), backup generators, and non-destructive fire suppression.

CMS requires that the Contractor provide a dedicated area for the HCQIS environment.  This shall include such items as dedicated floor space that can grow on demand and that will prevent unauthorized access.  Additional requirements for the dedicated area include:

The area of the facility that supports CMS must be locked at all times, even if staffed.

Access to this area must be restricted to authorized personnel.

An authorized approved access list must be maintained and reviewed/updated quarterly.

Emergency exits must be alarmed and an alarm must initiate an investigation.

Access to the CMS floor space must be protected by electronically controlled access devices, keys, cipher locks, guards or combination thereof.

Any personnel required in the direct performance of this SoW, including, but not limited to, access to facilities, data or systems, must comply with Section 2.5 of the Business Partner System Security Manual (BPSSM).

The following shows the minimum set of components and dedicated capabilities for the Physical Facility Support Service Category.  This table serves as a reference.  The Contractor’s sites will provide a mandatory 99.99 percent high-availability facility infrastructure to ensure there is no interruption to CMS processing.  Mandatory facility services will include adequate external and internal building security, power, environmental systems, fire prevention system, and emergency power systems.

Table 1.  Components of Dedicated vs. Shared Physical Facility Support



C.2.2.7 Storage Engineering

The Contractor shall provide technical and administrative support services for the implementation, management, and Operations and Maintenance of the SAN and perform data administration and management in all HCQIS locations as directed by CMS.



The Storage Services shall include, but are not limited to, the management and storage of CMS data and providing access to the users. Current storage capacity and empirical growth rates are referenced in appendix C.C.



The Contractor shall provide at a minimum the following engineering services for storage:



Device allocation

Microcode updates

Space management

Auditing and monitoring

Storage reporting

Performance monitoring

Services supporting volume and metadata management

UNIX system and database integration services

Backup and restore services

Research and documentation storage systems and databases

SAN security 

OS and patch management for any management servers supporting the SAN environment

Patch management: The patches should be compatible (same patch level) with EMC certified software and Solaris (UNIX)

Upgrade and migration support services





C.2.3 HCQIS Services 

The Contractor shall support all of the services outlined below, in each subsection, within and across all life cycles for all infrastructure platforms and applications. 

C.2.3.1 Service Level Management

The Contractor shall provide Service Level Management support to all tasks in this SoW.  The Contractor shall ensure that all current and future tasks are delivered to agreed performance targets.

The Contractor shall perform the following tasks that include but are not limited to:

Define, document, monitor, measure, report and review the level of services provided and initiate corrective measures as appropriate;

Manage the relationship and communication with ISG and its customers by applying business relationship management practices in the performance of this SoW;

Ensure that specific and measurable targets are agreed upon and achieved for all tasks performed;

Develop and manage Operational Level Agreements and Service Level Agreements as appropriate to establish and mutually meet expectations;

Monitor and improve customer satisfaction with the quality of service delivered;

Ensure that IT and the program business owners have a clear and unambiguous expectation of the level of service to be delivered; and

Ensure that even when all agreed targets are met, the levels of service delivered are subject to proactive, cost-effective continuous improvement efforts.

The Contractor shall provide high quality services, proactively prevent service failures, conform to SLAs, react to SLA breaches, investigate service performance failures, and initiate service improvement programs (SIP) and corrective action programs (CAP) as necessary to prevent reoccurrences. The Contractor shall maintain a Problem/Incident Management function within the program to support compliance with this requirement.

C.2.3.2 Availability Management

The Contractor shall provide Availability Management support to all tasks in this SoW.   The Contractor shall ensure that the level of availability delivered in all IT systems and services meets the agreed availability needs and/or service level targets in a cost-effective and timely manner.  The Contractor shall support the Availability Management function as the process that provides a point of focus and management for all availability-related issues pertaining to both services and components, ensuring that availability targets in all areas are measured and achieved. The Contractor shall understand the underlying aspects that contribute to availability of services.  The Contractor shall then measure and recommend solutions to improve availability.

The Contractor shall:

Produce and maintain an appropriate and up-to-date availability plan that reflects the current and future needs of the business;

Provide advice and guidance to all areas on all availability-related issues;

Ensure that service availability achievements meet all agreed targets by managing services and resource-related availability performance;

Assist with the diagnosis and resolution of availability-related incidents and problems;

Assess the impact of all changes on the availability plan and the availability of all services and resources; and

Ensure that proactive measures to improve the availability of services are implemented with cost justifiable results.

C.2.3.3 Capacity and Performance Management

The Contractor shall provide Capacity Management support for all tasks in this SoW.  The Contractor shall develop and maintain tactical and strategic plans to verify that the HCQIS Data Center environment accommodates growing and changing business requirements without jeopardizing performance standards.  This includes planning and monitoring system usage and capacity.

The capacity management strategy shall include:

A Service Catalog that provides:

Standard server builds for all production and non-production environments.

Standard server sizing i.e. memory, processor, etc. and required COTS products.

A mechanism for making customizations on an exception basis.  

A governance process to reclaim unused and underutilized capacity.

A governance process to ensure software is not over deployed by installing it on oversized systems.

Capacity reporting should be provided in two views.  The first view will be infrastructure centric providing the overall utilization of hardware.  The second view should be system centric to enable capacity alignment to the LOB’s.  This requires that the Contractor work collaboratively with developers of applications and LOB’s.  The goal is to identify capacity requirements associated with business requirements and application changes across all lines of business.  

The Contractor shall provide a quarterly capacity plan for both short and long-term forecasting resource requirements and for analyzing resource trends.  The initial HCQIS Data Center infrastructure proposed by the Contractor shall support the ability to quickly expand capacity due to unforeseen circumstances or emergency situations.

The Contractor shall develop a capacity plan that contains information on the current usage of service and components and plans for the development of IT capacity to meet the needs of new growth of both existing service and any agreed new services.

The Contractor shall develop and deliver capacity statistics, impacts, and risk analyses in the quarterly Capacity Planning report.  The report shall include, but is not limited to: capacity planning analyses for processing capability, network throughput, data storage, zone availability, and facility planning.

Capacity reporting shall provide an 18 month view with 6 months of historical data and a 12 month forecast that incorporates year-over-year organic growth and known new business requirements. These reports shall show current utilization and capacity measures.  Items of note should be annotated within the reports.

The Contractor shall provide performance monitoring and management services. The Contractor shall conduct due diligence to recommend additional tools, if required, to perform all monitoring and management services to ensure optimum performance of hosted applications and supporting infrastructure.

The Contractor shall monitor the network performance and detection and resolution of network problems for all network devices within the IT infrastructure, to include network-based servers, gateways, routers, and other data communications equipment.  To help increase systems performance, the Contractor shall provide performance tuning for the infrastructure and network.  The Contractor shall provide technical, facilities, and administrative support services for the implementation, management, and operation of the network diagnostic tools that have been chosen to facilitate monitoring and management.

To ensure the HICQS hosted applications and systems are performing optimally, the Contractor shall monitor their health.  This provides CMS and its contractor’s visibility into the overall health of the infrastructure and the hosted systems.  To support this, the Contractor shall develop, host and, maintain an electronic enterprise health dashboard that is available over the Internet and QualityNet.  The dashboard shall be compatible with industry standard browsers and mobile devices.  CMS understands that this is a new service.  The Contractor’s proposal shall include a timeline for completion in their service offering.  Systems targeted for integration will be prioritized by CMS.  Although the Contractor shall conduct formal requirements gathering session, the following should be considered:

Show real time, track and trend reporting of system availability

Active monitoring and trend of system performance based on transaction rates

Ability to set thresholds for reporting and alerts based on defined SLAs

Internet accessible

Role based access

Mobile device interfaces

Allow for grouping of systems/applications by function

Clustered infrastructure for increased availability

Utilize PIV card for two factor authentication

These activities should be listed within the JOA outlined in the transition section of this SOW.

C.2.3.4 Procurement of HCQIS IT Assets

The Contractor shall procure, for the use and benefit of the Government, all necessary hardware and software necessary to manage and operate the HCQIS infrastructure and services at a level to meet or exceed the requirements of this SoW. The Contractor shall perform a variety of duties relative to the procurement as they relate to the requirements stated in this SoW. These duties are to include:

Research, competitive quote analysis, sole source justifications for non-competitive actions;

Documentation of negotiations and justifications for selection of vendors;

 Contract negotiations;

Vendor support issues;

Billing and payment support;

Coordinate procurements and payments with HCQIS contractors;

Asset, license, and certificate tracking;

Maintenance of the approved HCQIS IT catalog; and

Procurement assistance. 

Purchases shall be fulfilled, on behalf of, and as directed by, CMS, to include, but not limited to QIOs, ESRDs Networks, the CDAC, and other designated HCQIS support contractors, as well as any other entity indicated and approved by CMS. All purchasing shall be approved by CMS and processed through the PRB Remedy system. 

This task is the primary work of procuring the necessary information technology resources for the HCQIS environment to include, but not limited to, software, servers, software applications development, web development, database management systems, WAN/LAN equipment, security appliances and any other general needs for operating and sustaining the HCQIS infrastructure. 

The Contractor shall:

Obtain at a minimum 3 competitive quotes for any CMS-approved enhancement (hardware, software purchases and/or subcontracting services). The Contractor shall submit any proposed hardware and software purchases through the PRB (Procurement Review Board) for final approval from CMS. If services are being procured, the Contractor shall follow the procedures listed below regarding Attachment J-2, Consent to Subcontract;

Contingent upon CMS funding, refresh the QIO desktops, and potentially servers and network equipment, every three years during the contract life cycle;

Perform trade studies or competitions on procurement products as directed;

Maintain correct inventory in Remedy;

Provide hardware and software to support all HCQIS contractors; and

Conform to all FAR acquisition regulations and requirements. 

The regulatory definition of a Subcontractor is anyone being paid via Government funds and is not an employee of the prime. This includes consultants, temporary labor, and subcontractors. (Source: Defense Acquisition University). Therefore, the Contractor shall submit a detailed Attachment J-2 to the CMS Contracting Officer that documents all purchases made on behalf of the HCQIS Contractor for final Contract approval and funds accountability. These submissions become part of the Official Contract File and are subject to review during audits and applicable investigations as required.

The Contractor shall not initiate any purchasing actions until given formal approval by the CMS Contracting Officer in advance.

A table containing a list of the current Information Technology resources utilized in HCQIS is located in Appendix C.C.  Disclosure of the resources does not allow the Contractor to obtain additional hardware/software/support services without the express written permission of the Contracting Officer.

C.2.3.5 Infrastructure Budget, Support and Management



The Contractor shall track the awarded Infrastructure budget and modifications to capture the following material items at a minimum: budgeted amount, funds remaining, Procurement Review Board (PRB) number, and the purchase order number. The Contractor shall capture and track all anticipated O&M out-year costs in association with all GFE procured HW/SW such that HCQIS IT costs are easily identified, understood and budgeted for current and future yearly costs.  The Contractor shall monitor continuously all software agreements, renewals, and terms of use to ensure that the HCQIS products are in compliance and are used in accordance with vendor contracted agreements.

The Contractor, by working with vendors and CMS, will work to ensure maximum license efficiency (enterprise licenses and others) across the HCQIS environment and conduct an annual assessment/recommendation for licensing changes to maximize utilization while minimizing overall cost. 

C.2.3.6 HCQIS Applications and Services Inventory Management

The Contractor shall maintain an inventory of all IT hardware, software, certificates, licenses and assets included in this SoW and acquired in the performance of this SoW. The inventory shall provide consistent and accurate inventory information and have the ability to link assets appropriately to owners, users and each other as necessary to effectively manage, report and audit. 

The Contractor shall perform the following tasks which include but are not limited to:

Manage the information contained within the inventory of IT systems and services;

Ensure that the IT systems and services inventory is accurate and reflects the current details, status, interfaces and dependencies of all assets;

Ensure the IT systems and services inventory is made available to those approved to access it in a manner that supports their effective and efficient use; and

Ensure the IT systems and services inventory supports the evolving needs of all other service management processes, including all interface and dependency information.		

C.2.3.7 Business Continuity and Contingency Plan

The CMS Policy for Information Security Program (PISP) specifies that all major CMS Information Systems (IS) including application and General Support Systems (GSS) shall be covered by a Business Continuity and Contingency Plan (BCCP). 

The Contractor shall develop the BCCP to support the HCQIS infrastructure and one for each major application supported by the HCQIS General Support System (GSS) to ensure that a BCCP is implemented and maintained to reduce risks to reasonable and appropriate levels and to comply with business continuity priorities, applicable laws, regulations, and policies. 

 

The HCQIS Business Continuity and Contingency Plan (BCCP) and all other application BCCPs within the HCQIS environment shall address the necessary allowances for new staff, staff location changes, switching service, maintenance, and other contractors.   The Contractor shall support this plan and provide the following services:

Establish business continuity capabilities that cover the Contractor’s operational and system requirements;

BCCP shall be updated yearly and made available to CMS for review and audit purposes;

Conduct periodic Disaster Recovery Drills annually according to the BCCP Plan that shall test and document all recovery procedures and strategies including, but not limited to:

Restoration of the operating systems

Activation of the backup network infrastructure and connection to all nodes

Restoration of all critical data and databases

Restoration and processing of all critical online applications

Restoration and processing of all critical batch applications

Restoration and processing of all critical support applications

Restoration of all connectivity and interfaces

The HCQIS Data Center and Application BCCPs shall cover all aspects of redeploying and executing support for an application upon a major interruption of service.   The plans shall include BCCP elements of a technical and operational nature.  The Contractor shall provide the required staff resources to perform disaster recovery drills to meet the defined service levels and take corrective action. CMS will monitor these drills.   The Contractor shall support multiple business functions with multiple owners.   



C.2.4 Build and Implementation



CMS requires the Contractor to provide Build and Implementation support for all tasks in this SOW.     

The Contractor shall adhere to build and implementation best practices, to include but not limited to the following processes:

Transition planning and support

Change management

Service asset and configuration management

Release and deployment management

Infrastructure Integration and testing 

Change evaluation

Knowledge management

C.2.4.1 Configuration Management

The Contractor shall identify the HCQIS hardware, software, and documentation baselines to put under Configuration Management (CM) control and to support the ongoing implementation of the HCQIS CM tools.

Several Government-off-the-shelf (GOTS) systems run on the HCQIS and it is CMS’ intention to bring these systems under formal configuration management.  

Sample activities during the base year include:

Ongoing implementation, customization, and use of CM tools for HCQIS projects and infrastructure components;

Administration of CM tools;

Implementation of enhancements and upgrades to CM tools;

Continuing development and refinement of change management practices, processes, and forums (e.g., Change Control Board); and

Inventory and Asset tracking within CM tools.

	

C.2.4.2 Change Management

At CMS’ direction, the Contractor shall support the installation, maintenance, and use of change management practices and processes.  The Contractor shall have primary responsibility for the implementation and use of the HCQIS standard CM tools.  

Sample activities during the base year include:



Ongoing implementation, customization, and use of CM tools for HCQIS projects and the HCQIS infrastructure components;

Administration of CM tools;

Implementation of enhancements and upgrades to CM tools;

Continuing development and refinement of change management practices, processes, and forums (e.g., Change Control Board); and

Inventory and Asset tracking within CM tools.

C.2.4.3 Release and Deployment Management

The Contractor shall build and deploy HCQIS IT applications and services in the QA, V&V, ITF, Production and any other HCQIS infrastructure environment as directed by CMS. The Contractor shall use Serena ALM or any other automated release and deployment tools to reduce time and errors related to build and deployment of applications and services. The Contractor shall coordinate with ADOs and other contractors for Deployment Plan build scripts and other information they may need for the successful build and deployment. After build and deployment, the Contractor shall “smoke” test application for deployment related errors as defined in the next section of this SOW. 

The Contractor shall also perform release management activities for all CMS-developed software, COTS products, and hardware devices.  The Contractor shall identify and document all software configurations items (CI) that comprise the HCQIS Production IT environment.  In addition to a CI number, application software versions shall be uniquely identified by a version number.  



C.2.4.4 Integration and Testing

The Contractor shall provide infrastructure and application integration support and deployment, security and performance testing for all CMS business applications.



C.2.4.4.1 Application Integration Support



To support integration, the business applications owners and/or other CMS ADO contractors are responsible for the delivery of application integration details that delineate how the application works, the required infrastructure services, and other details as needed by the Contractor operations staff to monitor and manage the application production operations. The Contractor shall support the deployment and operational integration of HCQIS Applications and Services and production thereafter. 



The Contractor shall ensure end-to-end infrastructure integration and deployment testing is conducted on new infrastructure services or updates to existing infrastructure services.  The Contractor shall coordinate all changes with CMS business application owners.   



C.2.4.4.2 Application Deployment Testing



The Contractor shall perform a deployment test and validation to ensure that IT Systems and Services are built and deployed successfully to Quality Assurance (QA), Validation and Verification (V&V), Isolated Test Facility (ITF), Production, and any other environment as directed by CMS. For production deployment testing, the Contractor may be provided with a “smoke” test script from the HCQIS V&V or ADO contractor to test the deployment when it’s first loaded into the Production environment.  

The Contractor shall notify other contractors and/or CMS when an application is built, deployed, tested, and ready for use in an environment.   This triggers other contractors to start the next step in the application life cycle. For example, successful build and deployment in V&V environment triggers the V&V Contractor to start testing.  The Contractor shall work with other contractors to resolve any configuration/environmental changes that may be discovered during build and deployment testing. Additionally, the Contractor shall provide an “operational impact assessment” of issues and defects found during V&V testing. An example of this can be found in Appendix C.D 



C.2.4.4.3 Performance and Stress Testing 



The Contractor shall perform performance and stress testing of HCQIS Applications and Services with consultation from ISG GTL(s), other contractors and, if needed, with other stakeholders.  

The Performance Test task focuses on simulating production operations of the hardware, software, database, and network components to ensure that the application system or service meets the projected performance requirements. Stress testing subjects a system to an unreasonable load while denying it the resources (e.g., RAM, etc.) needed to process that load.  The principle of stress testing is to stress a system to the breaking point in order to locate bugs, which will make that break potentially harmful.  The system is not expected to process the overload without adequate resources, but to behave (e.g., fail) in a conventional manner (e.g., not corrupting or losing data).



The Contractor shall be responsible for, including but not limited to the following Performance & Stress Test Task requirements:



The Contractor shall assess the capacity and throughput of a business application in processing time, CPU utilization, network utilization and memory and storage capacities relative to the expected normal user and processing load.

The Contractor shall provide the necessary hardware and automated performance testing tools to execute automated Performance & Stress testing in the ITF (Isolated Test Facility) environment. (ex. Packet storm for simulating bandwidth).

The Contractor shall provide Performance and Stress testing on hardware and appliances as needed to help identify and evaluate metrics on the equipment.

ITF engagements shall be performed in conjunction with LOB releases and supporting enterprise services to ensure performance standards are met.  

The Contractor shall be able to perform Performance & Stress test for multiple systems simultaneously.

The Contractor shall identify and report defect and performance deficiencies, and recommend infrastructure related improvements, as needed.

Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) testing will be performed by another contractor.  However, during Performance and Stress testing, it is possible that the Contractor will discover functional defects that should be reported to CMS.   

The Contractor shall coordinate with CMS, the requirement team, ADO development teams and Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) team to review performance requirements, performance testing criteria, and performance test results.   

The Contractor shall be a performance testing expert resource available to ADO development teams and Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) teams to assist with the performance improvement measures.

The Contractor shall produce a Results Report from stress testing that offers details of information which came out of the testing procedure, including but not limited to, a written record of what testing was done, a report with performance results, an assessment of the performance of the system and any incidents that occurred.  This documentation is used to determine if the system being tested is viable enough to proceed to the production deployment and future capacity planning and performance engineering.

The Contractor shall also support testing in a logically isolated Pre-Production environment of selected HCQIS applications to verify complete system and integration functionality as needed.



Contractor shall support all hardware and software related stress testing as required by CMS.

The Contractor shall provide the appropriate resources to support the HITECH alignment with PQRS/eRx and Hospital Reporting for electronic submissions of clinical quality measures (CQM) data for the HITECH EHR incentive program. This will include ITF Testing.

The Contractor shall complete performance and stress testing on all systems including but not limited to the portal systems, hospital systems, PQRS systems, interfaces, and enterprise components, such as the Oracle Service Bus, to support the electronic submissions of clinical quality measures (CQM) data for the HITECH EHR incentive program.

C.2.5 Operation and Management



The Contractor shall provide Information Technology (IT) Operation Management. This will provide CMS the service in which the Contractor performs the daily activities needed to manage IT services and the supporting IT infrastructure.  

The Contractor shall, unless otherwise directed by CMS, adhere to the most current version of the HCQIS policies and procedures.  Additionally, the Contractor shall comply with all present and future statutes, Federal, Department of Health & Human Services (DHHS), and CMS regulations and program instructions relating to providing a secure computer operations environment.  Additional Policies and Procedures may be released requiring additional implementation, operation and management.

C.2.5.1 Data Center Operation and Management

The Contractor shall provide a physical data center and host the HCQIS Applications and Services that contain, development, testing, validation and production environments. A list of available HCQIS Infrastructure environments is in Appendix C.E.

Enterprise IT activities encompass critical systems infrastructure that supports ongoing and future operations. The Contractor shall provide the day-to-day operations and maintenance of enterprise-wide infrastructure which includes but not limited to managing the network, servers, storage area network, voice and data communications, as well as backing up the mission critical applications and managing hardware and software. Additional activities included under this section: 

Build, manage and operate all HCQIS infrastructure environments including but not limited to the Development (Dev), QA Test (QA), Validation Lab, Validation and Verification (V&V), Isolated Test Facility (ITF), and Production as required by CMS to support other contractors;

Manage and ensure similar configuration across all HCQIS environments described above are consistent outside of approved exceptions;

Secure telecommunications network that supports transaction processing and file transmission

Provide hardware maintenance and software licensing;

Manage, update, maintain & troubleshoot of all infrastructure systems;

Work with 3rd party entities to restore services/operations in a timely and secure manner when there is an outage or degradation in performance; 

Manage 24x7 operations, including physical security of the Data Center and/or Server rooms or as identified by CMS;

Ensure smooth running of all IT production systems operations on a day-to-day basis and when operational incident/problems arise;

Manage and plan floor space capacity and data center environments and  systems;

Meet FISMA/Security requirements;

Manage the required power, cooling and Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) capacity to support the HCQIS environment; 

Ensure generators and backup power can maintain the Data Center during power outages indefinitely outside of destruction of building;

Provide redundant ISP circuits into the data center. An outage with one carrier should be totally isolated from the other. There shall be no single point of failure (SPOF) that is shared between ISP circuits in which a circuit outage with one carrier will disable the other; and

Support multiple DS3 and WAN connections.

C.2.5.2 Physical Facilities and Data Center Management and Security

Protection for computer equipment and personnel requires well-designed and well-managed physical facilities. The process of managing and controlling the physical environment includes defining the physical site requirements, selecting appropriate facilities, and designing effective processes for monitoring environmental factors and managing physical access. Effective management of the physical environment reduces business interruptions from damage to computer equipment and personnel.

The Contractor shall:

Implement physical security measures that meet CMS security requirements: ;

Maintain the facility in a clean and organized manner;

Minimize the amount of downtime arising from physical environment incidents and maintenance; 

Keep a record or log of incidents due to physical security breaches or failures;

Provide risk assessment and reviews;

Use the ISO 9001 as a guideline/framework to ensure proper documentation of all procedures that are used in any production process that could affect the quality of the HCQIS environment;

Ensure that the Data Center Manual is managed to capture all policies, procedures, SOP’s, certifications, etc. in support of the data center;

Provide data center efficiency, where possible, on items such as power usage, cooling, virtualization, equipment reuse or repurposing, and other “green” opportunities;

Ensure proper daily operations and scheduled testing of components occurs to ensure continued service within the data center (e.g. generators, UPS); and

Ensure proper change management procedures are documented and followed.

CMS requires that the Contractor to provide physical data center facility that offers a safe and controlled environment for hosted information system assets and data.  The physical facility management and security will provide multiple layers of protection for the entire data center.  The spectrum of this protection ranges from the physical building to security components in the server rooms.

CMS requires that the Contractor submit a Physical Data Center Management Plan to describe how The Contractor will provide facility management in support of CMS policy.

The Contractor shall follow the physical security requirements and guidelines of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as listed here: 

C.2.5.3 Application Hosting and Management

Application Hosting Services is the compilation of services necessary to successfully implement, operate and maintain applications into the HCQIS framework while adhering to CMS’ Expedited Life Cycle (XLC).  What follows is a breakdown of those services necessary to meet the requirements of the CMS XLC and to implement, operate and maintain CMS’ Applications in a Production environment.

C.2.5.3.1 Server-based Application Hosting and Management



The Contractor shall provide Application Hosting Services for distributed server applications requiring Linux, UNIX, Windows and any other server-based computing capabilities. The Contractor shall provide services necessary to successfully deploy, operate and maintain server based applications into HCQIS development, test, and production environments while adhering to CMS’ Expedited Life Cycle (XLC) and Technical Reference Architecture (TRA).  The Contractor shall make use of automated deployment techniques and tools, such as Serena ALM, to reduce error and deployment time within each environment.

The Contractor shall provide technical and administrative support for the implementation, management, operations, and maintenance of the distributed systems and all associated devices, which include but are not limited to:

Provide technical implementation, operations, management, and systems software support for Enterprise Services, Line of Business (LOB) Applications, software services, COTS and data administration;

Maintain similar configuration across all environments, i.e. Development, Test, Q&A, V&V, ITF, Training and Production to eliminate and reduce configuration-related deployment errors. The Contractor shall document configuration discrepancies where such consistency is not possible;

Provide access to data residing on distributed servers;

Provide a communications interface and access to tools such as Remedy, Serena, and LoadRunner to other organizations for change and problem management, system test support, development support, and other information management processes;

Ensure all access rights to the Production environments are controlled by Role Based Security (RBS) linked to a CMS or HCQIS Identity Management System;

Perform adds, moves, and deletes of hardware, systems software, tools, and environments;

Provide support for Unix-based products including: Sun Solaris Infrastructure, Oracle database, Informatica, Oracle Web Center, Oracle BI & Reporting Tool, OBIEE, Oracle JMS, WebServer and WebLogic App Servers, Oracle SOA and BPM Suite, Oracle Middleware Stack,  IBM Datapower, IBM WAS, IBM MQ series, AXWAY File Transfer, Connect-Direct, OPNET, and other monitoring and management products;

Provide support for Windows-based products for the monitoring and management of servers, Windows-based applications and COTS products;

Provide monitoring and management support for all other HCQIS servers, server-based applications and COTS products; and

Support the transactional processing function by providing data aggregation, processing, and distribution infrastructure.



C.2.5.3.2 Application Environment Build



The Contractor shall be able to build and operationalize application computing environments in all HCQIS regions (Development, QA Test, ITF, V&V, and Production) rapidly and within hours as needed by CMS and/or other contractors. The Contractor shall use automated mechanism to build and validate application computing environments automatically and rapidly by using VM templates, automated tools and standard processes as defined in the section “Automated Application Environment Build”.

Major tasks of automated application environment build shall include but are not limited to:

Creating a baseline build when application computing environment is built first time in a lower environment (e.g. Development) ;

Using lower-level configurations to build higher-level application computing environments such as V&V and Production;

Managing real-time allocation of hardware resources required for the application computing environments (i.e. self service provisioning).



C.2.5.4 Network Operations and Maintenance



The Contractor shall provide operations and maintenance support to keep critical enterprise systems functioning to achieve required performance, security, reliability and availability. 


The Contractor shall perform regular maintenance and patch management of all HCQIS servers, systems, routers, firewalls, appliances, network storage and any other systems or devices in the HCQIS environments. This is a continuous process and shall conform to the Patch Management Plan. The Contractor shall schedule, facilitate meetings weekly with CMS, Contractors and ADOs to conduct and coordinate maintenance to all HCQIS systems.  

The Contractor shall manage/coordinate/capture and provide meeting notes to identified parties, no later than 24 hours after the meeting.  

C.2.5.4.1 Network Operations Center (NOC)

The Contractor shall establish and maintain a network operations center (NOC) capable of providing the required service in a robust manner for the HCQIS environment.  The NOC shall be climate-controlled, secure and have backup power capability.  The Contractor shall provide a secure Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) hosting the necessary equipment for this function as directed by CMS.   The NOC shall be responsible for the alerting and notification of appropriate entities as outlined in documented problem and incident management procedures. 

The NOC shall serve as the central coordination point for the monitoring and reporting functions of a large scale data center and network operation.  The NOC shall provide enterprise-wide operational monitoring and reporting on infrastructure and performance metrics related to network, servers, capacity, outages, security, enterprise application subsystems. The NOC shall have the necessary networking infrastructure to support and monitor multiple circuit types such as DS-3, T1, etc. and their integration into the HCQIS environment.   

Upon contract award, CMS requires that the Contractor conduct due diligence to recommend any additional tools to perform all monitoring and management services to ensure optimum performance of hosted applications and supporting infrastructure.

The NOC shall be responsible for:

Ensure 24 x 7 coverage for all HCQIS environments, so that data center and network operations are properly monitored and service issues are reported and resolved in accordance with customer requirements;

Utilizing tools and processes that support true multi-vendor support in such a way that CMS minimizes redundant functionality among different tools from different vendors. The tools should provide both real-time and historic monitoring and support escalation capabilities;  

Evaluate, recommend, and implement enterprise-wide tools and processes to enhance existing monitoring capabilities;

Coordinate with appropriate engineering, security, and problem management teams to resolve and report on issues identified via NOC monitoring tools and capabilities; 

Report operational status and issues in the HCQIS  Daily Operational Status Report and other notifications documented in problem and incident management procedures;

Work with the various technology teams to improve monitoring capabilities and service reliability and incorporating methods and procedures into the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the NOC; 

Provide an integrated enterprise approach to monitoring a fast paced, growing technology environment;  

Develop, plan and implement plans for proactive monitoring and service restoration;

As an extension of the enterprise monitoring, be able to monitor the QNET Help Desk emails and voice mails after hours to proactively respond to issues;

Evaluate, recommend and implement automated enterprise monitoring tools such as auto discovery device updates, performance monitors, and environmental control equipment;

Utilize IP management tools such as Cisco’s IPAM for IP address monitoring and management;

Migrate away from any client/server based monitoring tools towards 100% web-based monitoring solutions within two years of contract award; and

Conduct two exercises per year to demonstrate the capability to monitor and operate the data center remotely from an alternate location.





C.2.5.5 Asset Management and Maintenance



The Contractor shall provide for the support, management, control, and maintenance of all systems, software, and hardware platforms identified in appendices A, B and C.  The Contractor shall procure and manage software licenses, including operating systems, subsystems, and systems tools, and certificates operating within its environment. The Contractor shall manage any Government Furnished Property (GFP) software licenses.  The Contractor shall procure, maintain, and operate all hardware consistent with current recommendations from the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM).  The Contractor shall ensure the hardware provided meets all requirements and performance metrics as specified in the SLAs and support HCQIS protocols such as IPv6.  The Contractor shall provide a report of all deployed hardware and software upon request.  This report shall identify the hardware platforms hosting each of the various software products.  



             		

C.2.5.5.1 Software Management and Maintenance



The Contractor shall obtain, manage and monitor all HCQIS software assets, certificates and licenses.  The Contractor shall: 



Obtain and manage software licenses; 

Maintain an accurate software inventory;

 Conduct annual audits of software to determine license validity and compliance;

 Renew expiring licenses, in a timely fashion, to avoid service impacts or availability;

 Responsible for the maintenance and inventory of all URL Certificates;  

Establish a standard window for scheduled downtime to perform software maintenance and upgrades;

When maintenance is required, coordinate with CMS and CMS contractors to evaluate the requirement and its impact on the business in order to mutually agree on the best schedule to perform those activities;

Maintain all systems software, databases, system tools, and third-party software;

Software versions levels shall be no more than two release versions behind the most current release level, unless authorized by the government;

System software and all COTS software shall be maintained at levels supported by the software vendor;

Support data calls to account for CMS software licenses being used within the HCQIS environment;

When maintenance service is withdrawn from a product by the software vendor, CMS requires the Contractor to assess and recommend a suitable upgrade or replacement for consideration in advance of the service end-of-support date; and

Work with the Government to communicate the effect, impact and timing of system software changes.



The Contractor shall maintain and monitor a list of all End of Life and End of Support software within HCQIS to ensure that CMS is utilizing supported software and in compliance with security requirements.



C.2.5.5.2 Hardware Management and Maintenance

 

The Contractor shall procure, manage, maintain, and operate all hardware in the HCQIS environment consistent with the current recommendations from OEMs.  



The Contractor shall ensure hardware provided meets all requirements and performance metrics as specified in SLAs.  



The Contractor shall replace or upgrade the HCQIS hardware if there is a business need for additional capacity or improved performance.  



The Contractor shall provide hardware installation and implementation services, including all required facility infrastructure changes to support these activities.  



The Contractor shall identify hardware operation issues and provide effective hardware maintenance, including routine, preventative, and corrective maintenance as recommended by the OEM.  



The Contractor shall prevent or minimize failures or risk of failure of the hardware and peripheral devices, including computer equipment, peripheral devices, front-end processors, communication controllers, and any related system or network equipment.  



The Contractor shall prevent or minimize failures or risk of failure of the facility’s environment equipment, such as power distribution units, fire suppression units, cooling units, Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), motor generators, and water delivery systems.  



The Contractor shall establish a standard window for scheduled downtime to perform hardware maintenance.  



When maintenance is required, the Contractor shall coordinate with the Government to evaluate the requirement and its impact on the business, and mutually agree on the best schedule to perform those activities.  



When maintenance service is withdrawn from a product by the hardware vendor, CMS requires the Contractor to assess and recommend a suitable upgrade or replacement for consideration in advance of the service end-of-support date; and



The Contractor shall assume the cost of repair of equipment due to misuse or neglect. 



The Contractor shall work with vendors to resolve any hardware-related issues and review upcoming technologies to ensure the HCQIS environment is available for continuous use.



The Contractor shall maintain and monitor a list of all End of Life and End of Support hardware within HCQIS to ensure CMS is utilizing supported hardware and in compliance with security requirements.

C.2.5.6. Server Operations and Maintenance

The Contractor shall provide operations and maintenance for the all HCQIS servers. The Contractor shall follow appropriate life cycle processes, following established CMS and Federal security frameworks, artifacts, and change management practices. Activities include, but are not limited to:



Support all HCQIS contractors that have HCQIS equipment;

Maintain baseline and enhanced configurations for all platforms while maintaining DISA STIG hardening standards; 

Operate, administer, and perform routine software maintenance for all HCQIS locations and servers;

Maintain server build documentation and version control;

Provide backup and recovery services;

Patch management: patch, upgrade and track versions in a timely manner;

Active Directory administration and management at all HCQIS sites for all LOBs; and

Email administration and management at all HCQIS sites and LOBs.



The Contractor shall provide support for all HCQIS servers.   This currently includes, but not limited to, standalone servers, Sun T-Series and M-Series systems, x86 servers, enterprise backup systems and EMC storage solutions as identified in Appendix C.C.  



C.2.5.7 Database & Storage Management

CMS requires that the Contractor shall provide support, control, and management of disk space, tape, and optical resources on all platforms.  This includes device naming standards, usage standards, archiving of files, the proper storage of files (on-site and off-site), and the monitoring and maintenance of media to prevent problems due to obsolescence, abuse, improper utilization, or defect.  This activity also includes quality assurance, the validation of created output and compliance with security and disaster recovery requirements, the operation of media devices, library management, data tier configurations, off-site storage management, retention management, and the inventory and recalling of data.

C.2.5.7.1 Database Administration and Management



The Contractor shall provide the following services and support that require database administration and management as directed by CMS:



DBA support

Messaging Services support 

Creation of databases

Database security 

Addition and subtraction of storage

User account administration

Database connectivity

Performance and tuning

Backup and recovery

Upgrades and migrations

Auditing and monitoring 

Patch management: Oracle Database and OEM patches and upgrades 

Data Warehouse Support



The Contractor shall provide Database Administrators (DBA) who shall provide coverage during production and testing hours of operation to address database problems and other situations that could impact service delivery.  The Contractor’s database management support shall include:

Database implementation

Database monitoring and tuning

Physical database maintenance and recovery, including

  Backups

  Image copies

  Reorganizations

Database tool evaluation

Documentation of databases installed and supported

Database condition and trending reports

Database capacity planning

Data administration, including maintaining and enforcing standards for database design, naming, and access

Development assistance, including table generation and views

Problem determination and assistance with application database issues

Disaster recovery for application databases

C.2.5.7.2 Business Intelligence and Data Warehousing



The Contractor shall deliver IT infrastructure services in support of business intelligence and data warehousing operations.  The Contractor shall implement and support methodologies, processes and best practices to efficiently store and transport large volumes of raw data for processing to achieve the following objectives:

Increased performance — Meet the increasing demands for performance and capacity.

Improved availability — Protect sensitive information with high availability, advanced backup/restore, business continuity, and security.

Timely Ad Hoc reporting and rapid data extraction and manipulation to meet demands for information.

Security and Privacy – Rapid de-identification of sensitive data where appropriate to protect the confidentiality of PII and PHI.

Testing – Automated and rapid creation of subsets of data to support development testing.

C.2.5.7.3 Storage Area Network (SAN) Administration



The Contractor shall provide the following services and support that require SAN administration and management at all HCQIS locations as directed by CMS:


Management Services supporting the administration of SAN to include:



Device allocation

Microcode updates

Space management

Auditing and Monitoring

Storage reporting

Performance monitoring



Services supporting volume and metadata management

UNIX system and database integration services

Backup and restore services

Research, proof of concept, documentation and development

SAN security

Virtual tape libraries 

Tape Management

Data tiering

Patch management: The patches should be compatible (same patch level) with EMC certified software and Solaris (UNIX)

Upgrade and migration support services

SAN reclamation

Track and report on SAN capacity and strategic planning

 

The Contractor shall provide reports to CMS that identify the following (at a minimum) as requested by CMS:

Outages/hardware/software related issues/fixes

Create thresholds for alerting, procurement, planning purposes

Capacity/Utilization

Triggered Alarms (thresholds reached)

Listing of scheduled hardware/software/software versions, End of Life (EOL),  End of Support (EOS)

C.2.5.7.4 Offsite Data Retention



CMS requires that the Contractor provide support, control, and management for disk space, tape, and optical resources on all platforms.  This includes naming standards, usage standards, archiving of files, the proper storage of files (on-site and off-site), and the monitoring and maintenance of media to prevent problems due to obsolescence, abuse, improper utilization, or defect.  This activity also includes quality assurance, the validation of created output and compliance with security and disaster recovery requirements, the operation of media devices, library management and offsite storage management.

The Contractor shall provide off-site media storage services.  Any media shipped or transmitted electronically must be encrypted.  The Contractor shall provide for safe and secure transportation of storage media to and from the primary data center or other specified locations.  The offsite storage location shall be no less than 100 miles from the data center containing the primary source of information.  The Contractor shall deliver media to or pick up media from the primary data center not less than weekly. The Contractor shall maintain procedures for tape delivery/receipt/recall, and maintain both computerized and hardcopy documentation to comprise a complete audit trail (including signed receipts), for all media entering or leaving the Storage Facility, including a list of all personnel who have recall authority.  



Standard retention periods of 90 days will be applied system level backup (OS, application, configuration).  Retention periods for CMS data will be defined per LOB by the specific LOB. 



C.2.5.8 Security Management

The Contractor shall follow The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-347) (FISMA) to develop, document, and implement an enterprise information security program to safeguard information and information systems that support the operations and assets of the HCQIS, including those provided or managed by another contractor (including subcontractor), or other source.  The Contractor shall adhere to The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) publications that provide guidance in the establishment of minimum security controls for management, operational and technical safeguards needed to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of a CMS system and its information.

C.2.5.8.1 System Security Services



CMS requires that the Contractor provide security services in support of CMS, which shall include coordination among the CMS CISO, ISG ISSO, business owners, and other stakeholders.  All HCQIS Data Center sites and related infrastructure services shall have policies and procedures and implement controls or plans that fulfill the CMS Information Security Policy requirements, including all applicable CMS standards and procedures.  The collection of CMS policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines are located on the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: .

C.2.5.8.2 Information Security Awareness Training



CMS policy requires Contractors/Subcontractors receive security training commensurate with their responsibilities for performing work under the terms and conditions of their contractual agreements.

The Contractor shall retain the results of security awareness and role-based information security technical training.  CMS requires basic security awareness training for employees and contractors that support the operation of the Contractor/Subcontractor system.  CMS requires information security technical training for information system security roles.  Training shall be consistent with the requirements contained in C.F.R. Part 5 Subpart C (5 C.F.R. 930.301) and conducted at least annually.

C.2.5.8.3 Security Planning



The Contractor shall facilitate and perform the following Security tasks to include security planning and management in accordance with CMS and Federal standards.  The goal is to provide support to the CMS Information System Security Officer (ISSO) in the overall management of the CMS HCQIS Security Program.

Draft Information System Security Plan* - The Contractor shall include a draft System Security Plan (SSP) using the current template available at the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at .  The details contained in the Contractor’s draft SSP shall be commensurate with the size and complexity of the requirements and based on the System Categorization. The Contractor shall include similar information for any proposed subcontractor that shall perform work.

Risk Assessments (RA)

System Security Plans (SSP)*

Manage Third Party Security Control Assessments (SCA)

Corrective Action Plans (CAPS)

Project of Action and Milestones (POA&M)

Authority To Operate (ATO) Package

Tabletop Testing

System of Records Notification (SORN) and Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA)

CMS CFACTS or equivalent tool for CAPS/POA&M data entry and tracking

Security documentation to include policies, standards, procedures, guidelines, and any CMS required documentation in order to meet CMS and Federal security mandates for the HCQIS infrastructure and all HCQIS programs

*Note to The Contractor: The resultant contract shall require the draft SSP to be finalized in coordination with the Project Officer no later than 90 calendar days after contract award.  Also, a contractor shall be required to update and resubmit its SSP to CMS every year (at a minimum) following award or when a major modification has been made to its internal system, as defined by the CMS CISO.

C.2.5.8.4 Information Security and Privacy Management



The Contactor shall perform all measures deemed necessary to ensure the appropriate safeguarding of the HCQIS technical infrastructure.  Such measures may include:

Establishing training packages for the implementation of the CMS Information Security (IS) Acceptable Risks and Safeguards (ARS) standards across the CMS HCQIS

Enterprise Security Awareness Training

Network and system monitoring

System audits

Security and penetration testing 

Incident response coordination 

Reviewing audit and security logs

Developing security recommendations

Firewall audits

Anti-Virus scanning

IDS / IPS monitoring

Security compliance monitoring

Security baseline development and monitoring for all platforms

Access control monitoring

Data loss prevention monitoring



CMS would require the Contractor to submit detailed quarterly security reports for CMS review covering the following:

Security Incidents (Event that caused the alert, subsequent investigation & analysis information, and resolution) w/ statistics as needed;

Baseline compliance with established HHS/CMS minimum security baseline configurations and relevant DISA STIGs for the platforms for which the Contractor is responsible. This includes server operating systems, installation-level database configuration, networking equipment, and network attached devices. Trending and/or differential information is required to illustrate quarter-to-quarter changes.



C.2.5.8.5 Security Control Assessment



The Contractor shall assist in coordinating Security Control Assessment (SCA) performed by a third party auditor, of HCQIS IT Systems and Services with consultation from ISG GTL(s), other contractors and if needed, with other stakeholders.  



The SCA determines the extent to which the security controls in the business application or infrastructure are implemented correctly, operate as intended, and produce the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the application or infrastructure.



The Contractor shall be responsible for, including but not limited to the following SCA Task requirements:



The Contractor shall provide the necessary access to third party auditor to execute SCA in V&V or ITF environment. 

SCA engagements shall be performed in conjunction with LOB releases and supporting enterprise services to ensure all security requirements are met.  

The Contractor shall be able to support SCA testing for multiple systems simultaneously

The Contractor will ensure third party auditors have access to hardware, software, technical resources, and polices as needed by the third party auditor. 

All costs associated with third party auditor engagements performing SCA testing

One third of security controls need to be tested in a yearly SCA test for all systems.

All security controls need to be tested after a major change occurs. 





CMS requires that the Contractor track and correct any applicable security deficiencies, conditions, weaknesses, findings, and gaps identified by SCA audits, reviews, Security Assessments, and tests, including those identified in Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Audits, FISMA Audits, Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) 70 reviews, MMA Section 912 evaluations and tests, Inspector General Audits, A-123 audits, other applicable reviews and audits, and CMS  Security Operations Center (SOC) continuous monitoring activities such as, but not limited to, vulnerability and compliance scanning of all the CMS information systems, in a timely manner.

C.2.5.8.6 Security Operations Center (SOC)



CMS established a centralized Security Operations Center (SOC) to provide a robust enterprise continuous monitoring program to improve situational awareness and provide near real-time risk management. The SOC provides information security oversight and monitoring of security events across all information systems that support the operations and assets of CMS, and will notify the appropriate security operations staff of potentially malicious traffic.  Automated scans can be performed by Government personnel, or agents acting on behalf of the Government, using Government operated equipment, and Government specified tools.

The Contractor shall provide a SOC capable of providing the required service in a robust manner for the production HCQIS environment.  The SOC shall be climate-controlled, secure and have backup power capability.  The Contractor shall provide a secure Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) hosting the necessary equipment for this function as directed by CMS. The SOC shall serve as the central coordination point for the monitoring and reporting functions of a large scale data center operation.  

The SOC shall:

Ensure 24 x 7 coverage for all HCQIS environments, so that data center and infrastructure security operations are properly monitored and service issues are reported and resolved in accordance with customer requirements;  

Evaluate, recommend, and implement enterprise-wide tools and processes to enhance existing monitoring capabilities;

Coordinate with appropriate engineering, security, and problem management teams to resolve and report on issues identified via SOC monitoring tools and capabilities; 

Report operational status and issues to HCQIS Daily Operations Status Report;

Work with the various technology teams to improve monitoring capabilities and service reliability and incorporating methods and procedures into the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the SOC;

Provide an integrated enterprise approach to monitoring a fast paced, growing technology environment; and

Develop, plan, and implement project plans to ensure the SOC supports evolving customer needs in a rapidly growing data center with a focus on proactive security monitoring.



In addition to the requirements to meet all of the CMS Information Security requirements documented in the  Web site, the Contractor shall work closely with the CMS SOC to undertake security related activities including but not limited to the following:

Contractor shall be responsible for supporting the CMS continuous monitoring program by providing automated data feeds to the CMS SOC as required by the CMS CISO. The SOC will supplement this by conducting independent oversight continuous security monitoring activities such as, but not limited to, vulnerability and compliance scanning as well as other network monitoring related activities of all the CMS information systems.

Contractor shall provide updated network architecture, IP address ranges, and security points of contact information for the systems they operate on behalf of CMS to the CMS SOC on a quarterly basis (Jan 1, April 1, July 1, and Oct 1).

C.2.5.8.7 Access Management



The Contractor shall implement proper access management policies, procedure and regulations to assist with the overall security of the environment and its information. This will provide CMS with the assurance that the information is secure and access is provided to only those required.  The Contractor shall implement proper procedures, policies and regulations to ensure CMS data is kept confidential, while maintaining the integrity and availability of the data for authorized personnel.  

C.2.5.8.8 System Authorization and Assessment



The implementation of a Federal Government IT system requires a formal Government Authorization to Operate (ATO), formerly certification and accreditation, of infrastructure systems and/or all application systems developed, hosted and/or maintained on behalf of CMS.  NIST Special Publication 800-37, (hereafter described as NIST 800-37) and CMS procedures:  , give guidelines for performing the system ATO process.  The system/application must have a valid ATO (conveyed through the CMS CIO authorization decision process) before going into operation and processing CMS information.  The failure to obtain and maintain a valid ATO may be grounds for termination of the contract. 



The Contractor shall comply with Authorization to Operate (ATO) requirements as mandated by Federal laws and policies, including making available any documentation, physical access, and logical access needed to support this requirement.  The Level of Effort for the ATO is based on the System’s NIST Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 199 categorization and CMS procedures (located on the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: ).  The Contractor shall coordinate with the CMS business owner to create, maintain and update all applicable ATO documentation as defined by CMS Information Security procedures.

At the Moderate and High impact levels, all CMS systems and infrastructures must obtain an independent Security Assessment in accordance with CMS procedures (located on the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: ).  The Contractor shall allow CMS employees (or CMS designated third-party contractors) to conduct Security Assessment activities to include control reviews in accordance with NIST 800-53/NIST 800-53A and CMS procedures (located on the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: ).  This includes the general support system infrastructure.

Identified gaps between required controls and the Contractor’s implementation as documented in the Security Assessment report shall be tracked for mitigation in a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) document completed in accordance with CMS procedures (located on the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: ).  Depending on the severity of the gaps, the Government may require them to be remediated before an Authorization to Operate is issued. 

The Contractor shall be responsible for mitigating all applicable security risks found during the ATO process and continuous monitoring activities.  All high-risk vulnerabilities must be mitigated within 30 days and all moderate risk vulnerabilities must be mitigated within 90 days from the date vulnerabilities are formally identified.  The Government will determine the risk rating of vulnerabilities.



C.2.5.8.9 Security Incident Response



A security incident is a violation, or an imminent threat of a violation, of an explicit or implied security policy, acceptable use policies, or standard security practices.  While certain adverse events, (e.g., floods, fires, electrical outages, and excessive heat) can cause system crashes, they are not considered computer-security incidents.  A security incident becomes a breach when the incident involves the suspected or actual loss of personally identifiable information.  CMS information and information system security related incidents should be reported using the Computer Security Incident Report (CSIR) form.  Incidents that concern PII should be reported using the CSIR form set forth in the CMS Incident Handling procedures available at the CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at: .

C.2.5.9 Help Desk

The HCQIS Help Desk is the central point for user contact and inquiries, problem reports, and service requests.  Communication with the Help Desk is achieved through telephone, web access, e-mail, and facsimile (Fax).  For problem reports, the Customer Service Representative (CSR) will triage the inbound customer request to provide Level One support, i.e., opening a service ticket, generating a tracking number, and identifying the action taken. The Help Desk shall serve as a front line resource for the healthcare user communities (QIOs, ESRDs, Inpatient Providers, Physician Offices, Vendors, CMS Central/Regional Offices, CDAC, Nursing Homes, and Home Health Agencies) who utilize the HCQIS applications and infrastructure.

The Contractor shall provide a technically proficient help desk capability for resolving issues that may affect CMS operations.  The HCQIS help desk must be capable of resolving such issues as password resets, hardware issues, security incidents, application performance complaints, and network performance problems.  A call from CMS Business Owners, business partners, and beneficiaries will be initially routed to the Help Desk which shall triage incoming calls and determine where the call should be routed for trouble resolution or assistance.  Requests that cannot be resolved at Level One shall be routed seamlessly to the appropriate HCQIS contractor for resolution.  Level Two and Level Three support include more complex technical support that cannot be resolved by Level One support, e.g., support from a subject matter expert (SME).  The service desk must have the ability to track the action taken and duration of response without having to access multiple systems.  All HCQIS contractors must be able to collaborate, track, and manage or transfer these tickets through resolution.

The Contractor shall:

Maintain and improve upon the existing Help Desk support for problem resolution;

Document and share problem resolution/avoidance information with system users to avoid replication;

Analyze problem frequency and proactively share solutions/ideas/methodologies with the user community;

Staff a HCQIS Help Desk that serves as a resource for the LOB communities to ask questions and to respond to incidents, issues, concerns, questions, problems, and hardware/software failures in a timely manner as determined by CMS SLAs;

Develop and maintain a dynamic Help Desk Management team that provides, at a minimum:

Provisions for escalation/resolution of urgent problems;

Creation and/or maintenance of a dynamic call routing system;

Ability to perform skills-based routing as appropriate;

Ability to implement automatic number identification (ANI) if requested by CMS to improve routing and customer experience;

Creation and/or maintenance of a dynamic database and management reports;

Creation and/or maintenance of a dynamic incident & problem management system;

First point of contact, coordination and notification for security incidents upon identification of potential security breaches;

Creation of timely bulletins/alerts, etc. to the LOB communities upon identification of a common problem/resolution;

Provision for daily operation Monday through Friday from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM, Eastern Time) of a toll-free number and an e-mail account, except on Federal holidays, at a minimum. CMS may direct extended hours as necessary;

Facilitate the flow of pertinent information to the user community with user friendly access;

Publication of rules of operation, as approved by CMS;

Production	 and/or query capability to produce routine and ad hoc reports;

Manage the quality of service delivery with analytical capabilities to examine such items as recurring HCQIS issues, root causes, mean-time-to-close, and first-time resolution performance;

Enhanced helpdesk support for projects as needed;

Development and management of Operational Level Agreements and Service Level Agreements;

Act as a ListServ publisher where warranted;

Provide, if not transferable from the incumbent contractor, a toll-free number for support and fax;

Provide helpdesk infrastructure to support on average:

12,000 monthly inbound calls

250 monthly voice mails

4500 monthly outbound calls

6500 monthly inbound e-mails

2000 monthly out-bound e-mails

450 monthly QNET Exchange registrations/modifications



The deliverable associated with this task is a monthly progress/maintenance report that addresses every requirement above. The Contractor shall capture the details of the current reporting month and estimated work for the next reporting period. This report shall include attachments of the actual documents created (such as the publication of rules) during that reporting period.  There should also be a quarterly Executive Summary Report that summarizes all activities of the help desk during the past quarter to include categories of problem tickets, aging reports, timeframe for resolution, etc. The Contractor shall also provide other reports as requested by CMS.



C.2.5.9.1 Incident Management



The Contractor shall support CMS and the HCQIS Data Center by restoring normal service as quickly as possible to minimize the adverse impact to the CMS Lines of Business (LOB’s) by ensuring that agreed service levels are maintained. 



The Contractor shall:



Identify incidents;

Log the incidents;

Categorize the incidents;

Prioritize the incidents;

Perform an initial diagnosis;

Escalate the incidents;

Investigate and diagnose the incident;

Coordinate problem/incident resolution and recovery with, if necessary, multi-contractor participation;

Conduct root cause analysis and corrective action plans for significant incidents; and

Close the incident ticket.



C.2.5.9.2 Escalation Management



The Contractor shall forward the details of an incident to the group with more specialized knowledge to prevent further incidents, failures or disruption of service.





C.2.5.9.3 Service Request Management



The Contractor shall be responsible for identifying, managing and fulfilling all Service Requests reported to the help desk and/or by other channels. All service requests shall be managed by the request fulfillment process separate from the incident management process. 

A service request is defined as a request from a user or other contractor for standard changes (e.g. installation of software on HCQIS workstation) or access (e.g. creation of user id for HCQIS system or tool) to HCQIS IT system or services. The Contractor shall be responsible for managing the life cycle of all service requests from the user. 



The Contractor shall provide the Request Fulfillment Services including but not limited to:



Develop and maintain authorization and qualification process for standard and recurring service requests.

Provide a channel for users to request and receive standard services for which pre-defined authorization and qualification processes exist.

Provide information to users about the availability of request services and processes. 

Maintain user and customer satisfaction through efficient and professional handling of all service requests.

Provide monthly report of service requests by category, fulfillment time, comments and complaints, as well as aging reports. 



C.2.5.10 Communications Support



CMS emphasizes the Contractor’s proactive approach to communications, and in particular, to notifying CMS of any developing situation that may impact operations, service to stakeholders, or any other contractual issue.  CMS requires that the Contractor shall advise CMS, in advance whenever possible, of any indication that a potential problem may be developing.  In the case of a known impending problem, CMS requires that the Contractor shall be forthcoming with CMS to address the risks and to identify mitigation strategies.



The Contractor shall support the distribution of memos, notifications, etc. to the HCQIS community via technologies such as list serves, email blasts, web postings, and other means on an on-going basis to assist with keeping the community informed.





C.2.5.10.1 VTC Administration



Videoconferencing capability exists at all complexes, every QIO, ESRD and 10 Regional Offices along with several contractor offices. The Contractor shall provide the following services and support that require VTC administration and management as directed by CMS:

Scheduling and administration of VTC meetings for complex sites;

Maintenance and support of VTC equipment (IP and ISDN) for all sites;

Research and development of future VTC technology;

Provide continuous presence capability for the HCQIS environment to support multi-point video conferencing which includes bridging communication to CMS and other federal agencies as requested.



C.2.5.10.2 Web Conferencing Support



The Contractor shall support the current WebEx System and provide research, testing, implementation and support of new web conferencing technology to support the HCIQS environment. The Contractor shall continue to use WebEx as the primary vehicle and continue to support its use.



The Contractor shall:	



Set up all meetings except where users initiate self-service;

Schedule training courses; 

Provides hosts;

Provide follow-up report;

Conduct polls;

Record meetings and assist with posting meetings for playback (on request); Provide maintenance and support for the online learning platform; 

Ensure that all recorded WebEx meetings are made 508 compliant and available for ad hoc viewing as needed; 

Synchronously record audio and visual training components to provide a quality, integrated recording of all training events for participants unable to attend a live event; and

Provide a monthly Executive Report to CMS that identifies the following, at a minimum:

Outages/hardware/software related issue/fixes

Create thresholds for alerting, procurement, planning purposes

Capacity/Utilization

Triggered Alarms (thresholds reached)

A listing of the scheduled hardware/software versions, end of life, end of support, etc.



C.2.5.11 Production Control and Support

The Contractor shall provide technical and administrative support services for the implementation, management, O&M of the HCQIS programs including but not limited to deployment, production control, backup and recovery and production data management.



C.2.5.11.1 Production Control and Scheduling



The Contractor shall perform technical duties in support of regularly scheduled computer job runs pertaining to the HCQIS programs.   The following services represent a sample of included activities and tasks covered under this heading:  

Develop and implement Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) around all production control processes across all environments;

Maintain appropriately trained production control staff;

Maintain contact list of application owners/individuals responsible for jobs on the production schedule;

Maintain and make available to application maintainers, contact information for production control staff; 

Develop procedures for the submission of jobs for production scheduling;

Develop template for communication of job run instructions, including abnormal terminations and restarts;

Maintain documentation of job predecessors;

Maintain documentation of job output and disposition of output;

Maintain schedule of production job runs and execute jobs according to schedule;



 

C.2.5.11.2 Production Data Management



The Contractor shall implement Enterprise Production Data Management support that executes and monitors production workloads and reports results to CMS.   Production Data Management executes processes and procedures related to the production workload, including scheduled maintenance, Job Control Language (JCL), data library levels, and problem and change tracking.   Production Data Management administers these responsibilities through a formal Change Management program that controls, documents, and provides safeguards for any changes.  Production Data Management coordinates tasks in day-to-day production operations and includes the following requirements:

Work with customers to manage job-related failures through problem management and expedite problem resolution through Change Management and provide a Root Cause Analysis (RCA);

Initiate and execute restart/recovery procedures following job-failures;

Using automated scheduling and submission tools, monitor Production batch cycles and review and generate reports; 

Provide an absolute separation, logical and physical, from any production and test environments to ensure no test data corrupts production data;

Assist to define new jobs and process cycles as required, through Change Management;

Perform required job changes;

Handle special input parameters by parameter substitution, as provided by CMS, ADOs, and/or the application owner;

Override JCL, as required, and verify scheduled completion of batch processing; 

Monitor actual processing in comparison to planned schedules, determine causes for differences, and identify and resolve scheduling problems and document discrepancies;

Adjust processing priorities as directed by CMS; and

Identify and propose improvements to the automation process and tools.

The Contractor shall develop and provide a Procedures Manual that will deliver run-and-recovery procedures describing the data processing workload and the steps necessary to support the systems environment.  Production Data Management analysts and system operations personnel maintain these run-and-recovery procedures, based on input provided to the Contractor by CMS.

C.2.5.12 Event Management

An Event is defined as a change of state which has significance for the management of a Configuration Item or IT Service.  An Event can be categorized as Informational, Warning or Exceptional. The Contractor shall be responsible for monitoring and detecting events, analyzing them and taking the appropriate control action for events. 



The Contractor shall provide the Event Management Services including but not limited to:



Develop and maintain event management standards and procedures documentation for HCQIS Infrastructure event management activities;

Develop centralized automated event monitoring function and dashboard using various HCQIS monitoring tools to proactively detect and log hardware and software change of state within HCQIS IT Systems, Services, and Components that has significance for the management of a CI or IT service;

Analyze significance of the event and determine appropriate control actions;

Develop and implement automatic response procedures for non-significant events; and

Record significant events as Incident, Problem or Change request per the established event management standards and procedure. 



C.2.5.13 Problem Management

A Problem is defined as the cause of one or more incidents. The Contractor shall be responsible for eliminating infrastructure errors from the environment and reducing the incident volumes recorded by the help desk. 



The Contractor shall provide Problem Management Services including but not limited to:



Provide Root Cause Analysis (RCA) and a post-mortem report when the problem is resolved as well as update related documentation and procedures;

Track all action plans created by post mortem reports to completion by the problem management team;

Develop and maintain Problem Management standards and procedures documentation for HCQIS Infrastructure problem management activities;

Use the system monitoring functions to proactively determine, diagnose, and resolve problems in all HCQIS environments;

Categorize all identified problems in accordance with CMS defined severity levels;

Provide advance and updated notifications to CMS, CMS Contractors and other stakeholders regarding the status of a problem via designated notification lists;

Report on all problem and resolution statistics in the Monthly Problem management Report;

Report on all security related problems in accordance with CMS defined severity levels; 

Developing and publishing an information knowledge base that can assist in the rapid resolution of incidents, such as problem resolution, workarounds, publication of known errors, diagnostic scripts and other information; and

Meet the problem and security notification and resolution SLAs defined in this SoW.



C.2.5.14 Workstation Maintenance and Support

The Contractor shall provide system administration support for all workstations and sites.  Activities include operation, administration, and routine software maintenance of all HCQIS systems.



The Contractor shall research, plan for, and with CMS approval, engineer changes to the HCQIS systems using appropriate XLC processes, artifacts and change management forums. This is to include daily O&M, enhancement support for all systems. 



The Contractor shall also be required to educate and train staff at all HCQIS sites, on systems administration duties and responsibilities as directed by CMS. Items such as new technology and all site moves are within the scope of this area of responsibility.



The Contractor shall certify applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB). The standard installation, operation, maintenance, updates, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved USGCB configurations.  The information technology should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default “program files” directory and should be able to silently install and uninstall.  Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges. 



The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) validated tools with USGCB Scanner capability to certify their products operate correctly with USGCB configurations and do not alter USGCB settings.  Deviations must be approved by CMS.



C.2.5.14.1 Workstation Support Services



The Contractor shall demonstrate the ability to procure, install, maintain, and provide workstation support to multiple locations and LOB’s.



In addition, the Contractor shall provide the following: 

Technology Upgrades - Research, evaluate, pilot and implement new technology. Ensure all HCQIS equipment remains operational, secure and performs at optimal levels.

Technology Refresh - Ensure hardware and associated software refresh cycles on all end user computing devices to provide the best value to CMS.

Capacity Planning – Ensure the performance of the end user computing environment supports the Agency’s current needs and accommodates growth and change.

Seat Management Catalog - Provide the end user with a mechanism to purchase approved end user computing hardware devices, software, accessories and support for the devices, software and accessories.

Assume responsibility of the current Desktop Catalogue Ordering Process (DCOP)

Ensure that the DCOP is capable of receiving and processing Pricing Requests (PR) and/or Purchase Orders (PO) from CMS personnel authorized by the CO.   

Ensure that all items covered under the DCOP are tested and are functionally compliant with the CMS IT infrastructure / desktop Master Software Image (MSI).

Core Image Maintenance – Install, support and manage version control of the core images for all approved endpoint computing devices. This includes change and configuration management and coordination with the application owners, developers, contractors as well as the CMS entity which has “oversight” of the enterprise change management process.

Above Core Software Installation – Installation of all approved above core software, maintain the software license inventory and maintain a catalog of all approved applications.  

Automated Software Distribution – Ensure all software updates and patches are automatically distributed/installed on all end user computing devices in accordance with government regulations.

Unauthorized Software - Develop a methodology to enforce the restriction on unauthorized software loaded by end users with administrative authority also known as Level 3 Access.

Unlicensed Software – Develop a methodology to address and enforce the restriction on unlicensed software loaded by end users with administrative authority also known as Level 3 Access.

Recovery Process – Ensure an end user PC, laptop and tablet recovery process is established.

 

C.2.5.14.2 Workstation Adds, Moves, and Deletes



The Contractor shall demonstrate the ability to perform Adds, Moves, and Deletes (A/M/D) when seat management devices are being installed, reassigned, relocated, or removed from inventory.  These changes shall be reflected in the BMC Remedy asset management database.  

The Contractor shall also be responsible for keeping track of available inventory and providing the government with available inventory reports on a periodic basis.  The Contractor shall ensure all devices removed from inventory are properly disposed of in accordance with governmental disposal practices. 

The Contractor shall support the A/M/D of data communications, LAN connections, cabling and wiring.

The Contractor shall provide for optional, large-scale A/M/D, such as technology refreshes or location moves by QIOs, ESRD Networks, and other contractors.



C.2.5.15 QIO and ESRD Site Administration

The Contractor shall provide all HCQIS system administration support for all HCQIS QIO & ESRD sites to include MS Active Directory, MS Outlook, network telecommunications and workstations systems associated with the servers and desktops. Activities include but are not limited to, operation, administration, and routine software maintenance of sites. Note that local IT support for each QIO & ESRD will be available based upon resources identified within their contracts.

The Contractor shall research, plan for, and with CMS approval, engineer changes to the QIO and ESRD systems using appropriate XLC processes, artifacts and change management forums. This is to include daily O&M, enhancement support and engineering support for QIO and ESRD systems. 

The Contractor shall also be required to educate and train QIO and ESRD staff on systems administration duties and responsibilities as directed by CMS. Items such as new technology and QIO and ESRD sites moves are within the scope of this area of responsibility.

The Contractor shall be required to support an anticipated transition and ongoing O&M of existing infrastructure to a complete virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment within a three year period. This will include but not limited to licenses, upgrades, etc.

The Contractor shall be prepared to support multiple QIO and ESRD Network site transitions during the startup of a new QIO or ESRD Network scope of work.

C.2.5.16 QIO & ESRD Transition (Startup/Shutdown)

The Contractor shall support the Startup/Shutdown of other HCQIS contractors to assist with the transition of all HCQIS IT related items. The Contractor will be responsible for providing project management in support of Startup/Shutdowns and provide a Microsoft Project Plan to capture/track all necessary tasks. The identified HCIQS contractor will be responsible for notifying the infrastructure contractor that of pending Startup/Shutdowns which will initiate the processes in the Startup/Shutdown procedures document.



The following areas shall be covered in this shutdown and transfer process:



The Contractor shall ensure that current policies and procedures around the Startup/Shutdown are in place and updated at a minimum yearly.

The Contractor shall support the planning of transition tasks for startup shutdown and transfer of all HCQIS GFE systems such as servers, network equipment, and workstations/laptops for transitional activities associated with the award and ending of HCQIS contract.

The Contractor shall ensure that proper accountability of the current HCQIS hardware and software is completed and communicated prior to and after the completion of each engagement.

The Contractor shall work to ensure that the project schedule is created and tracked for all identified Startup/Shutdowns inclusive of all associated tasks.

The Contractor will support the communication between the incumbent and successor HCQIS contractor to help coordinate the transfer/shipment of any hardware and software between sites.

The Contractor shall ensure that the ordering of any new equipment is identified and tracked as a part of this task.

The Contractor shall ensure work with CCSQ, Contractors, QIO’s, QIO’s Project Officer’s and any other necessary parties to ensure the success of the task.

The Contractor shall ensure that the associated telecommunication requirements (circuits) are identified, tracked and ordered or cancelled to meet the needs of the task.

The Contractor shall help plan, control, and monitor projects as an integral part of the CCQS/ISG project management team.

The Contractor shall provide rapid responsiveness to changing requirements for personnel in all aspects of project management.

The Contractor shall act as a contact for any issues, changes, and updates needed to support this task. 

The Contractor shall identify all major tasks critical to successful transitions.

The Contractor shall provide support for the HCQIS network infrastructure, which includes the Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), Internet connectivity, Internet security, email, VPN remote access, videoconferencing, and network management, maintenance, monitoring and training.  Activities include operation, administration, documentation and maintenance of all network-related components, e.g., firewalls, VPN, network management software, switches, routers. 

The Contractor shall maintain a Startup/Shutdown documented procedure to be used in support of Startup/Shutdown of contracts such as QIO, ESRD, etc.



C.2.5.17 Infrastructure Support Software Development Services

CMS requires that the Contractor shall customize/configure software products used in the support of this SoW to fully meet the needs of the CMS programs supported by HCQIS. Examples of software products included in this task area include but are not limited to:

Remedy 

Serena

Oracle Enterprise Manager and related management packs

OPNET

Cisco IPAM

Other system tools and products designed to be configured as needed to manage infrastructure and IT support services



A complete list of tools and products used in the HCQIS infrastructure is provided in Appendix C.C. 



C.2.6 ContinuOUS Improvement

C.2.6.1 Governance

The Contractor shall be responsible for the Governance of policies, practices, processes, tools, reviews, and standards for the HCQIS Data Center, Infrastructure, IT Systems and Services and related tasks as defined in this SOW.

The governance shall focus on leveraging resources to deliver value to the business and will require organizational processes and policies that will involve the business leaders, CMS and other contractors. The HCQIS IT Governance is based on the following components:

C.2.6.1.1 People - (Who) - 

This component identifies the people and the way people are organized to support HCQIS IT Systems and Services. The Contractor shall have the necessary technical engineering capabilities to support the planning, engineering, implementation, and operation of CMS business applications and infrastructure components. 

The Contractor shall provide the necessary functionality and personnel, including dedicated program manager, to coordinate and manage the daily operational management and interactions with CMS.  The Infrastructure Contractor’s program office will provide the necessary program management support to ensure that technical and business groups work in a cooperative and collaborative manner. 

C.2.6.1.2 Policies - (What) –

This component establishes the policies that support the HCQIS Data Center and its Operations. The Contractor shall:

Establish and maintain in-house policies and standards for HCQIS IT Infrastructure and Datacenter operations.  

Create policies and serve as the lead for resolution of HCQIS Infrastructure, Datacenter and application deployment related issues.

Create policies to manage and coordinate new business requests and facilitate new system or application deployments within HCQIS

The Contractor shall provide the necessary input to the Governance group and subject matter experts to support CMS in formation of HCQIS Enterprise governance and policies.  CMS will facilitate all Contractors’ inputs into CMS decision-making process through HCQIS Governance Group.  The Governance Group will form the policies that the Governance Boards will enforce. 

The Contractor shall also assist CMS in identifying, adopting, and implementing best practices from various government and private sectors.



C.2.6.1.3 Processes - (How) –

This component allows the Contractor to define processes to implement policies and standards for HCQIS IT Infrastructure and Datacenter operations. 

The Contractor shall document its Enterprise Program Management Plan and Approach, which shall be delivered in conjunction with this executed contract. This component also involves establishing processes involved in planning, control, monitoring, reporting, and response necessary to ensure the detailed coordination and integration of all tasks and activities within the SOW and across the HCQIS enterprise. The processes to adhere to the solution shall include at a minimum the following: 

Governance structure

Proactive control, monitoring and management mechanisms 

Process management mechanisms

Any proposed automation mechanisms

Quality assurance mechanisms and processes

Customer involvement

C.2.6.2 Technology Innovations

The Contractor shall stay abreast of emerging technologies and conduct recurring meetings with the Operations and Engineering staff.  They shall present and discuss both tactical and strategic recommendations by the Contractor. 

Tactical presentations shall be conducted quarterly and will be applicable to the immediate and next fiscal year.  It will support:

Exploration and introduction of new technology.

Specific plans to support CMS’s architectural direction.

Retirement/replacement of obsolete assets from the CMS infrastructure.

Anticipated capacity requirements in support of new and growing CMS business applications.



The tactical presentation shall be presented in a consistent format that will minimally provide information on Description of Initiative, Impact if not funded, high level alternative overview, and Rough Order of Magnitude Costs (ROM).  

The Contractor will maintain an historical tracking of these initiatives. They will only be removed from the list with concurrence from CMS.

The contactor shall also provide a strategic presentation to CMS once annually.  This strategic view outlines a three-year vision beyond the two-year tactical plan for the CMS IT infrastructure. This information enables CMS executives to make informed business decisions. The ITIMP initiatives include:

Exploration and introduction of new/emerging technology.

Specific plans to support CMS architectural direction.

Retirement of obsolete assets from the CMS infrastructure.

Anticipated capacity requirements in support of new and growing CMS business applications.

The Contractor will use this as  a proactive approach and make recommendations to provide a return on investment by implementing innovations to provide higher quality of IT services and data that measures value to government. Some of the areas of interest for CMS are Cloud Computing, Virtual Data Center, Big Data, Software as a Service (SaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), etc.

C.2.6.3 Efficient Operations of Data Center 

The Contractor shall propose energy efficient approaches to reduce the costs and energy consumption associated with running the data center.

C.3 HCQIS QIES Transistion

Beginning the second option year following the base period (August 2016-August 2017), the infrastructure supporting the suite of QIES applications shall be migrated to the Contractor.  Those tasks identified in section, “Incoming Transition Plan” shall be followed during the QIES to HCQIS infrastructure transition.   Once QIES has been fully migrated to HCQIS, it shall become fully integrated with HCQIS and the tasks under this SoW apply. 



The Contractor shall perform duties in cooperation with existing QIES contractors, including ASPEN.  The Contractor shall serve as the QIES Integration Contractor for tasks involving multiple QIES contractors.  The Contractor shall interface with the Verizon contractor.  Verizon manages the CMSNET, and maintains the Help Desk for broadband issues.  QIES has thousands of users both within and outside of the CMSNET.

The contactor shall:

Provide a secure mechanism to communicate with the QIES user community (e.g., electronic, website).  

Provide expertise in the operation and functionality of the hardware currently resident within the CMS and State-based IT environment to support users, provide training and enhance performance. 

Engineer, integrate, test, install and replace outdated State hardware by providing upgraded State systems including new hardware, servers, and technical support  to handle the expanding QIES capabilities.

Provide support services and resources in coordination with, and as directed by CMS, in the following areas:

	a.	 Support Services

b.	Hardware and environmental sizing and support, including configuration management and validation

Develop the QIES infrastructure by centrally monitoring, analyzing, supporting and helping manage the Information Technology (IT) systems including the hardware,  telecommunications support, networks,  and security of the QIES systems and databases utilized by CMS and CMS's IT partners, including other QualityNet (QNet) technical development and support.  

In evaluating proposals for this effort technical experience shall be the paramount consideration.  At a minimum, this consideration shall include specific QIES experience with:

Oracle, national systems, support and development, including specific experience with the: 

Design, development, analysis, testing, installation and implementation of system enhancements and provisions for CMS IT services.

Major hardware and software operating components of the QIES system, including development, user improvements, clinical training, technical support, performance testing, quality assurance tasks, and potential possibilities and plans for future QIES IT architecture.  

Monitoring and evaluating QIES performance characteristics, and preparing and delivering enhancement recommendations designed to increase user efficiency and/or data transfer capabilities. 

Negotiating optimal prices for hardware/software purchases and/or subcontracting support.

Evaluating, managing and/or acquiring equipment and Government owned software, subject to licensing restrictions.

Development and support of network security for access and confidentiality, including limited access, passwords and user profiles, etc.



C.4 General Requirements

The requirements below are general requirements and standards that apply to all tasks defined in this SoW. The Contractor shall have an understanding of the CMS/HCQIS XLC process in order to assist CMS in the day to day management of its products and services to support the quality improvement and pay for reporting programs. The Contractor shall also comply with the 508 requirements as defined in the section below.



C.4.1 Expedited Life Cycle (XLC)



CMS is committed to strengthening its system development life cycle processes. With the increasing need to respond quickly to business demands, CMS created the Expedited Life Cycle (XLC) to integrate CMS’ IT Investment management and governance process with the planning, engineering, implementation, maintenance and management aspects of the IT project life cycle. The Contractor is expected to be familiar with the XLC and will work within the framework provided by the XLC as determined by CMS. The information about CMS XLC is available at:





CCSQ has further enhanced CMS XLC to integrate HCQIS Governance Boards (QTRB, QCMB etc.) and the Service Life Cycle to CMS XLC. This enhanced XLC is known as HCQIS XLC and  shown in Figure 3.1.1 To3.1.4 below, provides a graphical representation of the multi-phased life cycle of any approved system development or maintenance project at HCQIS depending upon the project type of legacy development, service development or both.  The HCQIS XLC Framework covers all major activities, reviews, and documents that are referenced in this SoW.  Figure 2, provides a graphical representation identifying the XLC Artifact responsibilities of the Four Phase Contractors. The Contractor shall follow HCQIS XLC for all Infrastructure projects and conduct various applicable gate reviews with TRB (Technical Review Board); QTRB (HCQIS Technical Review Board); QCMB (HCQIS Change Management Board) etc. 



Although the phases of the life cycle are depicted in sequential order, some may overlap on certain projects or may occur iteratively in other projects depending upon the system development methodology selected for the specific project. Although Figure 1.1 – 1.4 and Figure 2 depict all inclusive life cycle for a project, number of gate reviews and artifacts required can be tailored for each project according to project complexity and need. Although the Contractor is primarily responsible for Infrastructure related artifacts and the Implementation and Operation and Maintenance phase of the XLC, the Contractor shall participate in other phases of project life cycle, such as Requirement Analysis and Design, Development and Test and collaborate with other HCQIS Contractors. For Projects which are entirely within the scope of this SoW, (such as installation of COTS products in the HCQIS Infrastructure, Operation Improvement initiatives, Implementation of new Desktop or monitoring tool etc.) the Contractor shall be responsible for all phases of the XLC and all XLC artifacts as applicable.



Figure 4.1.1 - HCQIS XLC Framework – Project Type A (Legacy Project)



Figure 4.1.2 HCQIS XLC Framework – Project Type B (Project with LOB Service Life Cycle) 



Figure 4.1.3 HCQIS XLC Framework – Project Type C (Project with Enterprise Service Life Cycle) 



Figure 4.1.4 HCQIS XLC Framework – Project Type D (Enterprise Service Life Cycle) 

Figure 4.1.5 - Artifacts by Gate Review/Contractor

C.4.1.1 Governance Boards

The Contractor shall comply, as an invited participant, with the existing processes and procedures of the CMS QualityNet Technical Review Board (QTRB), CMS Technical Review Board (TRB), as determined appropriate by CMS.  

C.4.1.2 Change Management Board

The Contractor shall provide a Change Management process that tightly manages and controls changes within in HCQIS to avoid the unrecoverable loss of important information. CMS, the Contractor and HCQIS contractors must give broad consideration to the risks and impacts associated with implementing (and not implementing) a change within the environment. This consideration must include the following areas:

Technical and hardware configuration

Application and software configuration

Governance, security, policies, and procedures

End users

Business benefits

The Contractor must provide a policy that explains the process for controlling all (HW & SW) changes made within the HCQIS environment. They will also provide a change control process that governs modifications, in a controlled way and using standard change control procedures within HCQIS. The change control procedure helps ensures efficient and prompt handling of changes from inception to implementation. The process will include, at a minimum, the following:

A weekly board meeting with a lead

A process for submitting changes

A process for reviewing/approving changes

An outline of change types (basic, urgent, etc.)

A process to capture changes (present and historical) 

Produce information providing a 12 month view for upcoming service outages in production, and non-production environments

Coordinate service outages to minimize the number and duration of impacts associated with planned events.

The Contractor shall produce a web base calendar of events that can be queried by the users to filter on areas of interest such a timeframes, LOB, and system/application.  This system does not exist today and will need to develop in cooperation with CMS.  A formal requirements gathering session is required.



C.4.1.3 Stage Gate Reviews

For Stage Gate Reviews during Phases, CMS requires attendance and participation from representative(s) from the Contractor team and teaming partners/subcontractors responsible for performance of the project/task/subtask under review.  Each Contractor shall be prepared to provide, at a minimum, the following:

Current documentation describing progress on all tasks under review

All deliverables (artifacts) subject to review

Project staff fully qualified to address progress, problems, solutions, and resolution of action items

The Contractor shall provide presentation materials (i.e.: slides, handouts, etc.) summarizing and/or illustrating the artifacts being presented before each review board.  The Contractor shall provide presentation materials related to activities and artifacts under its responsibility for the following board reviews and as requested:

Architecture Review

Project Startup Review/Service identification Review

Investment Selection Review

Project Baseline Review

Requirements Review/Service Requirement Review

Preliminary Design Review/Service Design Review

Detailed Design Review

Validation Readiness Review/Service Validation Readiness Review

Implementation Readiness Review/Production Readiness Review/Service production Readiness Review

Operational Readiness Review

Post Implementation Review/Annual Operation Assessment

Disposition Review



C.4.2 508 Compliance



The Contractor shall comply with all Section 508 requirements related to Electronic Information Technology (EIT) and communications.

C.4.2.1 Section 508 - Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology

  

(a) This SoW order is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220).  Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without  disabilities.  

(b) The EIT accessibility standards at 36 CFR Part 1194 were developed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance  Board ("Access Board") and apply to contracts and task/delivery orders, awarded under indefinite quantity contracts on or after  June 25, 2001.

(c) Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194), as specified in the contract, as a minimum.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing.  The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing.  If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following recourses:

1. Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase or line item without termination liabilities; or 

2. In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed by a contractor for the Government, the Government shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm for the noncompliant EIT, with the Contractor liable for reimbursement to the Government for any expenses incurred thereby.

(d) The Contractor must ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant with the accessibility standards are provided pursuant to extensive market research and are the most current compliant products or services available to satisfy the contract requirements. 

(e) For every EIT product or service accepted under this contract by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR 1194, the Contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either a contract specified refresh cycle for the product or service, or on a contract effective option/renewal date; whichever shall occur first.



C.4.2.2 Section 508 Compliance for Communications

The Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below.  In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and this SoW, the SoW shall take precedence.

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508 Accessibility Standards

1.      29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

2.      36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

3.       

4.      FAR 39.2 (Section 508)

5.      CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

In addition, all contract deliverables are subject to these 508 standards as applicable.

Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced, including text, audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including subcontractors) or consultants responsible for preparing or posting content must comply with applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents above. Remediation of any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the SoW shall be the responsibility of the Contractor or consultant.

The following Section 508 provisions apply to the content or communications material identified in this SoW:

 36 CFR Part 1194.21 a - l 

 36 CFR Part 1194.22 a - p

 36 CFR Part 1194.31 a - f

 36 CFR Part 1194.41 a – c

The Contractor shall provide a completed Section 508 Product Assessment Template and the Contractor shall state exactly how proposed EIT deliverable(s) meet or does not meet the applicable standards.

The following Section 508 provisions apply for software development material identified in this SoW, PWS, or TO:

For software development, the Contractor/Developer/Vendor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards

(1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

(2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.21 (a – l)

   	  36 CFR Part 1194.31 (a – f)

  	  36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)

(3)  (508 Standards)

 (4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508)

 (5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	    a. Information Technology – General Information

      	()

For web-based applications, the Contractor shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below:

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards

(1) 29 U.S.C. 794d (Rehabilitation Act as amended)

(2) 36 CFR 1194 (508 Standards)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.22 (a – p)

   	     36 CFR Part 1194.41 (a – c)

(3)  (508 Standards)

(4) FAR 39.2 (Section 508)

(5) CMS/HHS Standards, policies and procedures (Section 508)

   	     a. Information Technology – General Information

       	           	()

C.4.3 Technical Documentation



The Contractor shall prepare, maintain and deliver a comprehensive set of Technical Documentations, including but not limited to XLC artifacts, Physical infrastructure design diagrams per system per environment, Logical System Diagrams (LSD), Network diagrams etc. as described in this Statement of Work to CMS. At the direction of CMS, the Contractor shall forward the same complete set of Technical Documentation to any other CMS contractor. In addition, the Contractor shall be primarily responsible for the creation and update of operating documentation.  Operating documentation describes the processes and procedures required for installing, operating, removing and supporting the system throughout the software product’s life cycle.



C.4.4 Technical Reference Architecture (TRA)



The Contractor shall adhere to CMS Technical Reference Architecture (TRA) and associated supplements for all tasks within this SoW. The TRA consisting of the main TRA document and several TRA Supplements that have been authorized and approved by the CMS Chief Information Office and CMS Chief Technology Officer. CMS TRA and Supplements can be found at the CMS Intranet site using the following link or can be provided on request.



C.4.5 Required SECURITY Policy and Regulations



The CMS Information Technology (IT) Security program was developed in accordance with applicable Federal mandates and CMS requirements for the handling and processing of CMS’ information and information systems.  The CMS Information Security Web site at  provides a list of applicable security policies and procedures across the program.  Some applicable references are provided below:

CMS Policy for information Security (As amended) – The high level CMS policy for the CMS Information Security Program.

CMS Policy for the Information Security Program (PISP) (As amended) - Sets the ground rules under which CMS shall operate and safeguard its information and information systems to reduce the risk and minimize the effect of security incidents.  This document will subsequently reference Contractors/Subcontractors applicable CMS security Standards and procedure.

CMS Policy for Investment Management and Governance (As amended) - Establishes the policy for systematic review, selection/reselection, implementation/control, and continual evaluation of IT investments at CMS.

NIST Special Publication 800-53 rev 4 - Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations.



Contractors/Subcontractors are also required to comply with Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), the “Special Publications 800 series” guidelines published by NIST and other Government-wide laws and regulations for protection and security of CMS Information and information technology:

Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002.

HIPAA, 1996, P.L. 104-191

Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, P.L. 108-173

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009

Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act (part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009)

Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 also known as the “Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996.”

Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a).

Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD-12), “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (as amended).

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, “Management of Federal Information Resources”, and Appendix III, “Security of Federal Automated Information Systems” (as amended).

OMB Memorandum M-04-04, “E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies.”

FIPS PUB 199, “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems.”

FIPS PUB 200, “Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems” (as amended).

FIPS PUB 140-2, “Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules”

NIST Special Publication 800-18 (as amended), “Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems.”

NIST Special Publication 800-30 (as amended), “Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Security Risk Assessment Procedures for Information Technology Systems.”

NIST Special Publication 800-34 (as amended), “Contingency Planning Guide for Information Technology Systems.”

NIST SP 800-37, (as amended), “Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems.”

NIST Special Publication 800-47 (as amended), “Security Guide for Interconnecting Information Technology Systems.”

NIST Special Publication 800-53 (as amended), “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems.”

NIST Special Publication 800-53A (as amended), “Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems.”

Additional CMS documents were used as references in the development of this manual.  The CMS Information Security “Virtual Handbook” Web site at  provides a list of additional applicable documents across the Information Security program.





C.4.6 Travel



The Contractor shall periodically provide additional support for HCQIS activities that may require travel, both local and remote, and lodging.  Core business hours of support are 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m. EST; however, the Contractor must provide support as needed outside the core business hours. 



C.4.7 HCQIS Conference Support



The Contractor shall provide the infrastructure support for the annual HCQIS Conference.  This involves working closely with the Conference facility network and facilities personnel to provide HCQIS WAN and LAN connectivity to the facility for the duration of the Conference.  The first task is to perform a facility site survey to determine the viability of the facility to support the infrastructure requirements of the Conference.  This involves examining the network cable and fiber infrastructure to ensure that it meets the QNet cabling specifications.  The next task is to gather information from the facilities infrastructure personnel to place an order for QNet vBNS+ N x T1 circuit order for the WAN support at the facility with enough lead time for the circuit to be installed, turned up and tested prior to the conference.  During the Conference, the Contractor is the technical interface with the facility network, electrical and security contractors.



During the planning stages of the Conference, the Contractor is the technical interface between the CMS Program staff and the Audio/Visual contractor at the facility.  The task is to take the CMS Program requirements for the conference and translate that into the technical requirements for the Audio/Visual configuration.  During the Friday setup prior to the Conference, the Contractor shall work with the Audio/Visual (AV) Contractor to ensure that A/V environment meet Program requirements.  During the Conference, the Contractor is the technical interface with the A/V Contractor to resolve any issues or problems that may arise.  Also, during the planning stages, the Contractor shall gather the training and presentation requirements and act as the technical interface between the CMS Program staff and selected Personal Computer (PC) rental contractor for the PC, laptop and printer rental equipment used during the Conference.   During the Friday setup prior to the Conference, the Contractor shall work with the PC Rental firm to provide power and LAN connectivity for the PCs and laptops.  During the Conference, the Contractor is the technical interface with the PC Rental contractor to resolve any technical issues or problems that may arise.  The Contractor shall provide an environment that will allow for onsite email checking, file staging site for presentations, network communication back to HCQIS environment for access to HCQIS resources, onsite technical labs as needed.





C.5 Staffing and Organizational Structure

	

C.5.1 Key Personnel



The Contractor shall propose Key Personnel and provide resumes for the contract consistent with positions and descriptions identified below.   Key Personnel requires CMS approval and CMS shall be notified within two (2) days of Contractor becoming knowledgeable of any vacancies and proposed replacements.

The Contractor shall prepare and provide CMS with an organizational structure chart.  The Contractor shall notify CMS of any proposed modifications to the organizational structure 30 days prior to implementation of modification.

To be successful on this project, the Contractor and its staff will require the following:

Strong project management skills to manage changes that will come from different CMS and contractor organizations;

Diverse engineering and systems administration skills in the areas of local and wide area networks, Solaris, CISCO, Oracle Database Servers, and Microsoft operating systems, advanced storage systems, high availability and backup and recovery methodologies, and video teleconferencing;

Diverse engineering and systems administration skills in wide area network and local area networking technologies (preferred CISCO background);

A verifiable and successful track record on this type of work, preferably at CMS; and

Strong application stress and usability testing knowledge and background.



The following required personnel shall have the identified skill sets and experience: 


Program Director/ Manager – At least 10 years of progressive experience managing large infrastructure contract with successful technology design, implementation, operations and support through the full system development life cycle;



All direct reports to the Program Director, excluding administrative and staff level personnel, including but not limited to the following:

Senior Network Architect/Engineering Manager – At least 10 years of progressive experience and team leadership in the design and implementation of large, complex networks.  CCNP certification preferred for support of CISCO based systems; 





Quality Assurance/Services Manager - At least 7 years of progressive experience in the controlled development and implementation of technology into existing environments. Must have at least 5 year of experience developing configuration management processes and working with automated configuration management tools.



Senior Security Manager – At least 10 years of progressive experience in the field of technology security policy, procedure, risk assessment and system security plan development, and oversee the computer security incident response team (CSIRT). CISSP required in good standing throughout the contract.







Data Center Manager – At least 7 years of progressive experience managing the overall operation of a medium to large sized data center and maintaining industry standards and provide recommendations for emerging technologies related to the data center;



 			

Problem Management Senior Manager – At Least 10 years’ experience performing problem and crisis management in a large data center operation. Including root cause analysis and process improvement.





Senior Helpdesk Manager – At least 7 years’ experience managing and administrating an enterprise helpdesk operation. 





Other qualified personnel will be required as needed to support specific activities on the task.

C.6 End of Contract 

C.6.1 Contract Closing Plan 



During performance of this contract should termination or non-renewal of an option year occur, CMS may require the successor Contractor to provide transition services beginning at the earliest mutually agreeable date.  During this period, the incumbent Contractor shall work with the new Contractor, CMS staff, as well as other identified CMS Contractors to ensure continued operation of the HCQIS infrastructure.  



C.6.2 Outgoing Transition Plan 



The Contractor shall submit a transition plan that provides support for up to 12 months of transition with this proposal.  The transition out plan shall include a Microsoft Project Plan and address all the tasks in this statement of work.  The transition plan shall identify the date the successor Contractor will assume responsibility for the specific tasks.  In any case, the transition shall be completed within 90 days of incoming Contractor’s contract start date.  The Contractor shall submit a revised detailed Microsoft Project transition out plan within 30 days of contract award date.  

The plan shall include a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) and estimated cost to transition at a minimum:

650 mid-ranged (4RU) servers in (2Ft W X 4Ft D RACKS)

7 EMC DX4000 size SANS

5 large Backup units/devices 

10 (4RU) racks worth of Network Equipment

7 APC Units





C.7 Points of Contact	

The Contracting Officer Representative for this effort is Robert London.

This contract will have GTLs for each specific task.  The Contractor shall assign a point of contact for each specific task.  The Contractor shall maintain a list of these assignments and provide a copy to the COR within 30 days of contract start date.  This list will be kept up to date and provided to the project officer within 3 business days of a change. 

Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall be required to furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material equipment and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the Statement of Work.





C.8 Appendices

Appendix C.A HCQIS IT Assets Count







Appendix C.B Major HCQIS LOBs, IT Systems & Services







Appendix C.C HCQIS Infrastructure IT Inventory





Appendix C.D HCQIS Operational Impact Assesment









Appendix C.E HCQIS Infrastructure Environments

ppendix C.F QIES INFRASTRUCTURE CURRENT STATE INVENTORY

HARDWARE



SOFTWARE



ORACLE LICENSING for QIES (2013)



MISCALLEANOUS SOFTWARE

MISCELLANEOUS SOFTWARE









Appendix C.G QIES STORAGE fORCAST FOR 2014-2018









Category

Sub-Categories

CMS Minimum Defined Required Capability

Physical Facility Support

Physical space

Cage(s) that physically separate CMS equipment; contiguous space for growth



Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS)

Redundant power supplies in every component.  Redundant power cables to redundant facility power on every component.  Diesel generator backup.



HVAC/environmental controls

Redundant HVAC system



Video cameras for monitoring

Monitor all entrances, exists, parking areas, dedicated rooms



Facility SOC/NOC personnel

All personnel that have access to CMS systems and that monitor and manage CMS systems MUST pass CMS background check process



Fire

Fire suppression equipment in all production areas using industry standards that may include inert gas,   wet-pipe water-based, or dry-pipe water-based systems or a combination.  Early warning systems, e.g., VESDA, should be in place. DR plans must include procedures for recovery from a discharge of the suppressive material.



HCQIS IT Assets

Count

Total Lines of Inventory

646,914

Hardware

19,860

Software

627,054





Total # of Infrastructure Environments

21

Production

1

Training

1

Verification and Validation

12

Isolated Testing Facility (Stress Testing)

3

Test

2

Development

2

Verification and Validation Lab (Workstation, Virtual and Standalone)

3

 



Total # of Servers

2,407

Physical (Unix)

553

Virtual (Unix)

1228

Physical (Windows)

417

Virtual (Windows)

209





Total # of Laptops and Workstations

5,636

Laptops

4,210

Workstations

1,426





Total # of Software Product Types

68

Presentation Products

2

Application Products

13

Database Products

3

Archiving and Backup Products

2

High Availability Products

5

Business Intelligence and Analytics

6

Management Services Products

15

Job Scheduling Products

2

Monitoring and Performance Products

20





Total Storage Managed

2,623.35 TB

Production

1,212.26 TB

Non-Production

1,411.09 TB





Total # of Facility and Network Devices

335

# of Generators

5

# of Routers

84

# of Switches

209

# of Firewalls

37



Major HCQIS LOBs, IT Systems, and Services

End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)

Enterprise Services (Portal, Identity Management System, BI Tools/Dashboard, XML Gateway/IBM Datapower, Data Exchange/Axway, NwHIN, Measure Engine, Security Services, Error Log Services, etc.)

Hospital Reporting

PQRS

10th SoW Beneficiary and Family Centered Care

10th Integrate Care for Populations and Communities

10th Improve Individual Patient Care

10th Improve Health for Populations and Communities

Deliverable and Data Submission Tool (DDST)

QIO Reporting Tool

Data File Submission Tool

CRIS

PRS

QIONet

Program Progress Reports (QIO reports)

HAJI Part A MF/DB

HAJI Part B MF/DB

Part D MF/DB

HSE MF/DB

ISAT File MF/DB

CASPER MF/DB (formerly OSCAR)

PECOS MF/DB (Individual and Group Physician

HMO/PDP MF/DB

Claims Roll-off

ASAT 

Quality Management and Review System (QMARS)



APPLICATION ARCHITECTURE

Presentation:

Apache 2.2.23

Oracle GlassFish



Application:

Oracle Weblogic 9.2, 10, and 10.3

Oracle Web Center 10.3 and 11.1.1

WebCenter Spaces

Universal content Management

Secure Enterprise Search

BPEL Process Manager

Oracle SOA (Fusion Middleware)

Oracle Service Bus

Oracle BPM

Oracle Fatwire

Oracle AquaLogic

IBM WebSphere

Informatica Power Center Informatica Power Exchange

YBASE PowerBuilder

SYBASE EA Server

Axway

Adhoc File Transfer

Secure Transport

Large Enterprise Clustering

PegaSystems PegaRULES Process Commander

Snowbound



Database:

Oracle 11.2.0.2

Oracle ASM 11.2.0.2

Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2012



Archiving and Backup:

Syma Veritas NetBackup 7.5ntec Backup Exec

Veritas NetBackup 7.5



High Availability:

Oracle RAC 11.2.0.2

Veritas Cluster Server 5.1

Windows Clustering Services

Exchange 2007 CCR

VMware High Availability (HA)



Business Intelligence and Analytics:

Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE)

SAS 9.1.3, 9.2 and 9.3

SAS BI

COGNOS 8.2 and 8.4.1  Reporting

Siebel CRM/BI Publisher Reports

Crystal Reports 11



Management Services:

Microsoft Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010

Microsoft Terminal Services 2003

Symantec Antivirus 12.1

Lyris ListServ 11

Serena Dimensions Requirements Management

Serena Dimensions Configuration Management

Serena Application Lifecycle Management Suite

•  Serena Business Manager

•  Serena Dashboard

•  Serena Demand Manager

•  Serena Development Manager

•  Serena Release Manager

•  Serena Request Center

•  Serena Service Manager

•  Serena Prototype Composer

HP ALM / Quality Center 11

HP Load Runner 7.5

BMC Remedy AR 7.5

BMC Remedy ITSM 7.6

Data Maker

WebEx Meeting and Support Center

Microsoft Lync 2013

Oracle Enterprise Repository



Job scheduling:

BMC Control-M with Self Service

Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control



PLATFORM

Oracle Solaris 10 Update 9.

For Oracle T4, T3, T2000, T5120, T5140, T5220, T5240, M3000, M4000, M5000, V120, V240, V440 servers

For Fijitsu 250 and 650 servers

Windows Server 2003 & 2008

For Dell PowerEdge 1650, 1750, 1850, 1950, 2650, 2800, 2850, 2900, 2950,

4600, R415, R610, R710, R720 servers

Linux RHEL 5.8 & 6.2

VMware 5.0

Oracle Sun L180, L700, and SL3000 Tape Libraries

IronMail Email Gateway E2200 appliances

Big F5 Load Balance appliances

IBM XI50 appliances

IBM XI52 appliances

EXTERNAL INTERGRATION

Message Queue (MQ) - Data to Data over Verizon Business PIP

Informatica Power Exchange – Data to Data over Verizon Business PIP

IACS LDAP Replication – Data to Data over Verizon Business PIP

Individuals Authorized Access to the CMS Computer Services (IACS)

CMS Integrated Data Repository (IDR)

CMS National Level Repository (NLR)

Connect:Direct and  SFTP for file transfer

Anakam for multi-factor authentication

Symantec VIP for multi-factor authentication

HTTPS between CRMIS and Enterprise Content Management (ECM)

RightNow Cloud

USER INTERFACE

Web-based, J2EE

STORAGE/DATA MANAGEMENT

Data under management :

1212.26 TB in production for 2013 with projected growth rate of 10% to 20% annually

1411.09 TB in non-prod for 2013

EMC Clariion CX3, Clariion CX4, DMX 1000, and DMX4 SAN Storage

DATA CENTER

Primary located in Warrenton, Virginia:

Two separate feeds coming into DC (Both 2000 amp service)

Feed 1 backed up by (3) 500kW Cummins Generators

Feed 2 backed up by (2) 500kW Cummins Generators

HVAC:  (10) 30 ton Units with space for (1) more

UPS: (4) 80 kW units and (4) Symmetra PX units (The four symmetra PX vary in kW)

APC-7 – 375kW 

APC-8 – 375kW 

APC-9 – 125kW

APC-10 – 125kW

Total Square footage of DC is 11,382

We have moved all Facilities Infrastructure equipment off of Orion onto Corp. Switches.



NETWORK

WAN:

Carrier Primary facility dedicated OC-12 link

Primary dedicated OC-3 links

CMSNet using DS-3

Internet circuit 100 Mega-bit

QNET circuit DS-3

Redundant NOVEC fiber transport from Equinox

Redundant VPN for remote access

Network appliances including:

o Load Balancer  ACE 4710      ( 4 )

o Wireless Access Point AIR AP 1250       ( 1 )

o Ethernet Switch  Cat 4506            ( 17 )

o Ethernet Switch  Catalyst 37xx Stack    ( 129 )

o Router Cisco 2821         ( 74 )

o Router Cisco 2921K9       ( 3 ) 

o Router Cisco 3745         ( 1 ) 

o Router Cisco 3925K9       ( 2 )

 o Router Cisco 3945K9       ( 4 )

o Security appliance      Cisco ACS Appliance v5.3  ( 1 )

o Firewall  Cisco ASA 5520   ( 5 )

o Firewall Cisco ASA 5540   ( 12 )

o Firewall Cisco ASA 5550   ( 2 )

o Firewall Cisco ASA-5580   ( 1 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 2960-48    ( 1 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 2960-48TT  ( 28 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 3548 XL       ( 3 

 o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 355048     ( 6 )

 o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 3560-48TS   ( 1 ) 

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Catalyst 4506-E         ( 4 ) 

o Load Balancer  Cisco CSS 11503    ( 1 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Nexus 5000 Series     ( 2 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Nexus 5548    ( 8 )

o Ethernet Switch Cisco Nexus 7000 Series     ( 8 )

o WAAS compression appliance  Cisco NME-WAE-502         ( 1 )

o WAAS compression appliance  Cisco OE 512K9   ( 1 )

o Firewall Cisco PIXFirewall  515 E	( 2 )

o Firewall Cisco PIXFirewall 525	( 3 )

o Ethernet Switch Extreme Networks	( 2 )

o XML Firewall Forum Systems Inc. 	( 3 )

o Firewall Juniper SRX3600 Firewall	( 3 )

o Firewall Netscreen ISG-1000	( 6 )

IT SERVICE DESK/ HELP DESK

Staff primarily located in West Des Moines, Iowa

Planned Staff Expansion to a second facility (Chester, Virginia) – On hold due to contract conflicts

Trouble Ticketing Systems using BMC Remedy AR v7.5 and BMC ITSM v7.6 – 7.6 conversion completed.

Avaya Call Management System

MONITORING & PERFORMANCE

Manage/maintenance of Oracle products:

Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 11.2.0.1 for production

Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 12c for non-production environment)



System resources:

Orion Application Performance Monitor WINTEL

Big Brother for Unix servers

SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager) for patching and deployments

SCOM (System Center Operation Manager) for Reporting and Monitoring

Symantec Altiris Server Management

OPNET



Network device management, event correlation and analysis:

Orion NetFlow Traffic Analyzer

Orion Network Performance Monitor

TripWire for server and firewall auditing

DB Protect

McAfee HIDS

WebSense v10000 7.7 – Web Usage Monitoring

OPNET

vCenter (VMware Monitoring)

Axway Sentinel

PegaSystem PegaRULES Process Commander

Oracle Weblogic Alerts

Antigen 7.5

Custom Scripts



V&V Impact Assessed by

V&V Test Team

Program Impact Assessed by

Program SME

Operational Impact Assessed by

Operational SME

Category 1: No Workaround: 

It is not possible to test a Feature or Function. Data integrity at risk, functionality/features are missing. 

-OR-

Causes Crash: 

This would include system crashes or operational activities that cannot continue. 

Category 1: Users not able to fulfill federally mandated requirements.  Financial, legal and legislative jeopardy.  Potential for severe CMS reputation damage; extremely poor user experience



Category 1: System non-functional.  Unable to provide access to users.





Category 2: Has Workaround: 

A Function or Feature doesn't work as expected, but there is another way to accomplish the task.  

Category 2:  Users have means to fulfill Federal mandates but in a degraded or sub-optimal fashion.  High user burden. May not be able to meet sub-task requirements

Category 2:  System may require frequent restarts, data correction scripts, which are at moderate to high risk levels, may be required to be ran.  Unsustainable burden on help desk may occur.  

Category 3:  Cosmetic: 

This would include anything that does not display correctly or hinders functionality. For example, incorrect or misspelled text on screens or displaying a font or format other than what the customer desired.

Category 3:  Users have workaround, but system provides a poor user experience.



Category 3:  Heavy user assistance may be required by help desk.  Regularly scheduled scripts and system restarts may be required.  Alternative data submission methods may be required.

Category 4:  Enhancement/Change Request: 

This is typically for issues that don't qualify as a bug; however, there may be a better way to handle things.  An example might be a tester thinks the Web application could look and respond a little better than it currently does.

Category 4:  Little impact to user experience.



Category 4: Little to no impact to operational teams. Low risk data clean-up may be required.



Env.

Description

DEV1

ADO Development Environment 1

DEV1

ADO Development Environment 2

TEST1

ADO Test Environment 1

TEST2

ADO Test Environment 1

CVV1

VV CROWNWeb w QVV1

CVV2

VV CROWNWeb w QVV2

QVV1

VV QIMS Consumed by QMARS, CrownWeb, DDST, QIP, GPRO

QVV2

VV QIMS Consumed by CrownWeb

VV

VV REMIS, FIVS, NwHIN

PVV1

VV PQRS Future Release Environment

PVV2

VV PQRS Prod Fix Environment

TEA1

VV Technical Enterprise Architecture Future Release Environment

TEA2

VV Technical Enterprise Architecture Prod Fix Environment - Currently Being Used for ESRD QIP 2014  Pilot

SVV1

VV HR Future Release Environment - Date Set Ahead 1 Year

SVV2

VV HR Future Release Environment

SPF

VV HR Prod Fix Environment

VVVL

Virtual V&V Lab Environment

SVVL

Standalone V&V Lab

ITF

ITF ESRD, HCQIS, HR, PQRS, QIO

ITFTEA1

ITF Technical Enterprise Architecture Environment 1

ITFTEA2

ITF Technical Enterprise Architecture Environment 2

TRNG

ADO Training Environment

PROD

Production Environment





Model

Vendor

Environment

Use

Memory

Processor

Additional Notes

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers

National Servers



T2000

Sun

Prod

Web Services

8GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



T2000

Sun

Prod

Web Services

8GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

DEV

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M5000

Sun

Prod

Database Server

64GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M5000

Sun

Prod

Database Server

64GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

Web Services

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

Web Services

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

Prod

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

Prod

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

Prod

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



V240

Sun

QA

Web Services

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

Web Services

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

8GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

8GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

QA

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



V440

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



V440

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

QA

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M5000

Sun

QA

Database Server

64GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

QA

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

Web Services

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

Web Services

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

QA

App Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

QA

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

QA

Database Server

32GB

sun4u SPARC

 



V240

Sun

DEV

Web Services

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

DEV

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



V240

Sun

DEV

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



T5120

Sun

DEV

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

DEV

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

DEV

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



T5120

Sun

DEV

App Server

8GB

sun4u SPARC

 



V240

Sun

DEV

App Server

4GB

sun4v Sun Fire

 



M4K

Sun

DEV

Database Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



M4K

Sun

DEV

Database Server

16GB

sun4u SPARC

 



PRIMEPOWER650

Fujitsu

DEV

Database Server

32GB

sun4us

 

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers

State Production Servers



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

Prod

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

Prod

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

Prod

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

Prod

App Server

8GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors





 

 

 

 

 

 



R510

Dell

QA

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

QA

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

QA

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

QA

Rack

 

 

 



R510

Dell

System Dev

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel X5672

2 Processors



TL2000

Dell

System Dev

Tape Library

 

 

 



1920 UPS

Dell

System Dev

UPS

 

 

 



2410 Rack

Dell

System Dev

Rack

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Web Services/App Server/Database Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

VM Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

VM Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

App Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

FS/Backups

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

FS/Backups

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

Backups

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

FS/Backups

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE2850

Dell

Dev/Test

FS/App Server/Backups

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE6650

Dell

Dev/Test

App Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PV132T

Dell

Dev/Test

Tape Library

 

 

 



PE1950

Dell

Dev/Test

App Server

4GB

Intel Xeon

 



PV220S

Dell

Dev/Test

Drive Array

 

 

 



PE1850

Dell

Dev/Test

App Server

1GB

Intel Xeon

 



R510

Dell

Dev/Test

VM Server

128GB

Intel Xeon

2 Processors





Product

Version Number

Purpose

National Servers

 

 

 



Apache

2.2.22

Web Server



Apache

2.2.22

Web Server



Weblogic

10.0.1 - 32bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.22

Web Server



Apache

2.2.22

Web Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.23

Web Server



Apache

2.2.23

Web Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

 



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.23

Web Server



Apache

2.2.23

Web Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.23

Web Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Weblogic

10.1.5 - 64bit

Application Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server



Oracle Database 11g Enterprise Edition

11.2.0.2.0 - 64bit

Database Server

State Servers

 

 

 



Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition

10.2.04 32bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.21

Web Server



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



TomCat

7

Application Server



Windows Server 2008 Standard

 

Operating System



ArcServe

16

Backup Software



Filezilla

3.5.3

SFTP Client



WinZip

12

Zip Software



Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition

10.2.04 32bit

Database Server



Apache

2.2.21

Web Server



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



TomCat

7

Application Server



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



ArcServe

16

Backup Software



Filezilla

3.5.3

SFTP Client



WinZip

12

Zip Software



ESX

3

VM Server



ESX

4.1

VM Server



Windows Server 2008 Standard

 

Operating System



Remedy

7.6.04 sp 1

Application Server



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



Oracle Database 10g Enterprise edition

10.2.04 32bit

Database



Windows Server 2008 Standard

 

Operating System



Remedy

7.6.04 sp 1

Application Server



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



Oracle Database 10g Enterprise edition

10.2.04 32bit

Database



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



Arcserve

16

Backup Software



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



Arcserve

16

Backup Software



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



McAfee 

8.8

Antivirus



Arcserve

16

Backup Software



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



McAfee 

 

Antivirus



Windows Server 2003 Standard

 

Operating System



McAfee 

 

Antivirus



Processor Type

Serial Number

Serial Number

Server Type

Server Type

Server Type

Physical Processor Count

Physical Processor Count

Number of Cores

Number of Cores

Processor Core Factor

Processor Core Factor

Required Processor Licenses

Required Processor Licenses

Required Named User Licenses

 Development



 Development



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UltraSPARC-IIIi

 

 

Sun-Fire-V240

Sun-Fire-V240

Sun-Fire-V240

2

2

1

1

2

2

0

0

50

UltraSPARC-IIIi

0413AD1BBF

0413AD1BBF

Sun-Fire-V440

Sun-Fire-V440

Sun-Fire-V440

4

4

1

1

4

4

0

0

100

SPARC64 VII

BEF0838C78

BEF0838C78

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

SPARC64 VII

BEF0838CBD

BEF0838CBD

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

 Test

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPARC64 VII

BEF0930F04

BEF0930F04

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

SPARC64 VII

BDF114881E

BDF114881E

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

SPARC64 VII

BEF0930F03

BEF0930F03

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

SPARC64-VII+

BDF114881E

BDF114881E

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

4

4

4

4

8

8

0

0

200

SPARC64 VII

BEF0838CBF

BEF0838CBF

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

SPARC64 VII

BEF083395F

BEF083395F

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

SPARC-Enterprise-M4000

4

4

4

4

12

12

0

0

300

 Production



 Production



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPARC64-VII+

BDF1148822

BDF1148822

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

8

8

4

4

16

16

16

16

0

SPARC64-VII+

BDF1148821

BDF1148821

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

8

8

4

4

16

16

16

16

0

SPARC64 V

152

152

PRIMEPOWER250

PRIMEPOWER250

PRIMEPOWER250

2

2

1

1

2

2

2

2

0

SPARC64 VII

BEF0931FB6

BEF0931FB6

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

4

4

4

4

12

12

12

12

0

SPARC64 VII

BEF0931FAF

BEF0931FAF

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

SPARC-Enterprise-M5000

4

4

4

4

12

12

12

12

0



Product

Purpose

Funding Contract

Quantity

ORACLE Advanced Security network- processor (for database encryption)

State server data encryption

QIES

106

ORACLE Advanced Security network- processor support (maintenance)

State server data encryption

QIES

106

ORACLE Advanced Security  network - named users (for database encryption)

State server data encryption

QIES

600

ORACLE Advanced Security  network - named users support (maintenance)

State server data encryption

QIES

600

SpiraTest 100-User Edition

Requirements and test case management

GDIT

1

SpiraTest 100-User Edition Software Maintenance & Support

Requirements and test case management

GDIT

1

iRiseStudio Enterprise Edition - License

Solution modeling

QIES

5

iRiseStudio Enterprise Edition - Maintenance & Support

Solution modeling

QIES

20

JAWS Pro v13.0 License

508 compliance testing

QIES

5

JAWS Pro v13.0 Maintenance & Support

508 compliance testing

QIES

5

Oracle BEA WebLogic Server Advantage Edition - CPU Perpetual

 

QIES

1

QTSO SLL Certificate and Support

QIES web site certificate

QIES

1

My Eclipse Standard

JAVA development

QIES

13

Sybase Software - Win 8 Platform

 

QIES

3

Sybase Software - Win Enterprise

 

QIES

1

BMC Remedy IT Service Management Suite License

Help desk and systems support issue management

QIES

1

BMC Remedy IT Service Management Specialist - Floating License

Help desk and systems support issue management

QIES

20

BMC Remedy IT Service Management Specialist  - User License Add-on

Help desk and systems support issue management

QIES

31

QTP Renewal - April-2013 (2 seats)

 

QIES

1

QTP Renewal - July-2013 (2 seats/2 sites)

 

QIES

1

QTP Renewal - Sep-2013 (2 seats/4 sites)

 

QIES

1

QTP Renewal - Nov-2013 (6 seats)

 

QIES

1

CA ARCserve Backup File Server Suite - Enterprise for state servers - Maintenance & Support

 

QIES

61

CA ARCserve Backup Client Agent for Windows - Maintenance & Support

 

QIES

33

CA ARCserve for Windows VM Agent -  Maintenance and Support

 

QIES

3

McAfee License for state servers

 

QIES

108

Beyond Compare

QA testing

QIES

50

Adobe XI Professional 7

QA testing

QIES

10

Adobe LiveCycle

QA testing

QIES

1

Hypersnap

QA testing

QIES

1

Dell PC - OptiPlex 990 

QA testing

QIES

1

Dell PC - Ultrabook with Windows 8

QA testing

QIES

1



Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)

Quality Improvement Evaluation System (QIES)



























5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)

5-year SAN Storage Forecasting (2014-2018)















































































Database Name

Description

TB Used 2012

TB Used 2012

% Increase 2012

TB Used 2013

% Increase 2013

 

% of Projected Growth 2014

2014 Projected Storage Needs (TB)

% of Projected Growth 2015

2015 Projected Storage Needs (TB)

% of Projected Growth 2016

2016 Projected Storage Needs (TB)

% of Projected Growth 2017

2017 Projected Storage Needs (TB)

% of Projected Growth 2018

2018 Projected Storage Needs (TB)































 





































DEVELOPMENT

DEVELOPMENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





















0.01

0.01

75%

0.01

0%

 

15%

0.02

15%

0.02

15%

0.02

15%

0.02

15%

0.03





















0.21

0.21

10%

0.23

9%

 

15%

0.26

15%

0.30

15%

0.35

15%

0.40

15%

0.46

















Total Dev (TB)

Total Dev (TB)

0.225

0.225

 

0.244

 

 

 

0.281

 

0.323

 

0.371

 

0.427

 

0.491































 





































TEST

TEST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





















1.44

1.44

14%

1.64

14%

 

20%

1.97

20%

2.37

20%

2.84

20%

3.41

20%

4.09





















1.44

1.44

14%

1.64

14%

 

20%

1.97

20%

2.37

20%

2.84

20%

3.41

20%

4.09





















1.41

1.41

12%

1.64

16%

 

20%

1.97

0%

1.97

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion





















1.34

1.34

7%

1.35

1%

 

20%

1.62

20%

1.95

20%

2.33

20%

2.80

20%

3.36





















1.42

1.42

12%

1.62

15%

 

20%

1.95

20%

2.34

20%

2.80

20%

3.37

20%

4.04





















1.41

1.41

13%

1.61

14%

 

20%

1.93

0%

1.93

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion

Storage released due to O2Q completion





















0.00

0.00



1.62



 

20%

1.95

20%

2.34

20%

2.80

20%

3.37

20%

4.04

















Total Test (TB)

 

8.45

8.45

 

11.13

 

 

 

13.36

 

15.25

 

13.63

 

16.35

 

19.62

















 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

















Total Non-Prod (TB)

Total Non-Prod (TB)

8.68

8.68

 

11.37

 

 

 

13.64

 

15.57

 

14.00

 

16.78

 

20.11































 





































PRE-PROD

PRE-PROD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 































 



1.14

20%

1.37

20%

1.65

20%

1.98

20%

2.37































 



2.07

20%

2.49

20%

2.98

20%

3.58

20%

4.30































 



2.06

20%

2.48

20%

2.97

20%

3.56

20%

4.28































 



0.00

5%

3.31

5%

3.47

5%

3.65

5%

3.83

















Total Pre-Prod (TB)

Total Pre-Prod (TB)

Total Pre-Prod (TB)

Total Pre-Prod (TB)

 

 

 

 

 

    5.28



     9.64



       11.08



     12.77



        14.78































 





































PRODUCTION

PRODUCTION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

















National

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





















0.436

0.436

12%

0.487

12%

 

135%

1.14

20%

1.37

20%

1.65

20%

1.98

20%

2.37





















1.53

1.53

13%

1.73

13%

 

20%

2.07

20%

2.49

20%

2.98

20%

3.58

20%

4.30





















1.51

1.51

13%

1.72

14%

 

20%

2.06

20%

2.48

20%

2.97

20%

3.56

20%

4.28





















0.00

0.00

0%

0.00

0%

 

5%

0.00

5%

0.00

5%

0.00

5%

0.00

5%

0.00

















States

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

















 States DB (x53)



0.00

0.00



0.00



 

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.0096

20%

0.0116

















Total Prod (TB)

 

3.48

3.48

 

3.94

 

 

 

5.28

 

6.34

 

7.61

 

9.14

 

10.96

















Grand Total QIES Storage (TB)          12.16

Grand Total QIES Storage (TB)          12.16

Grand Total QIES Storage (TB)          12.16

Grand Total QIES Storage (TB)          12.16



    15.31



 

 

    24.20



    31.55



        32.68



    38.68



         45.85















