<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2Fsf33.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2Fsf33.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>

                                                    Asset Management and Performance Measures




                                                SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS


This Task Order is issued under contract __________and contains additional information as authorized  by  the  base  contract.   Performance  and
administrative requirements in this Task Order are specific to this Task Order and are in addition to requirements stated in the base contract.

PRICING STRUCTURE

Task                   Fixed Price
Task 1                       _________
Task 2                       _________
Task 3                       _________
Task 4                       _________
Travel                       _________
Total                        _________

All necessary and reasonable travel and per diem will be reimbursed at cost in accordance with the Travel and Per Diem clause  in  Section  G  of
the base contract and this Task Order.




                                             SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK


C.1 Background

The Transportation Planning Capacity Building (TPCB) Program is designed to help decision makers, transportation officials resolve the
increasingly complex issues they face when addressing transportation needs in their communities. This comprehensive program for training,
technical assistance, and support is targeted to State, local, regional, and tribal governments, transit operators, and community leaders.  Peer
Exchanges provide important opportunities for sharing solution-based experiences throughout the professional planning community.  Peer Exchanges
seek to recognize, support, and promote good statewide, metropolitan, and rural transportation planning practices nationwide.  Sharing ideas,
noteworthy and solution-based experiences between state departments of transportation (SDOTs), Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs),
regional planning organizations, transit operators, and tribal governments not only strengthens transportation planning practices, but also
builds relationships and reinforces cooperation between these agencies.  The people who depend on the transportation system ultimately benefit
from a more efficient multi-modal system that provides mobility and access for passengers and freight.

In considering the future needs of the highway transportation system, States need to address issues associated with the performance of the
system, including high levels of congestion in some areas, aging infrastructure in need of major reconstruction in both rural and urban areas,
and demand for new capacity critical to modal interfaces and network operation.  Further, issues with the process by which we fund, build, and
maintain the system are being highlighted.  The National Commission report indicated that, the surface transportation system is failing to
perform to our needs and expectations.  In some respects the system has shown limited improvement in recent years, especially in safety and
environmental impacts. But the measures of system use that affect travelers most often—congestion and delays—have worsened at an alarming rate.
Meanwhile, use of the system has increased dramatically in the last three decades, while expansion of system infrastructure particularly of
highways has slowed almost to a halt.
The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials AASHTO defines asset management as: “A strategic and systematic process
of operating, maintaining, upgrading and expanding physical assets effectively throughout their lifecycle.”  It focuses on business and
engineering practices for resource allocation and utilization, with the objective of better decision making based upon quality information and
well defined objectives.”  Within an effective asset management program, State DOTs must have effective performance measures for their various
assets.  The focus of this Peer Exchange is for States to discuss how they measure system performance with regard to pavements, bridges,
congestion, safety, and other key performance measures.  These measures are especially important as transportation decisions and investments are
made.  As discussions take place concerning possible changes in how funding allocations are made to address increasing highway congestion, aging
infrastructure, safety, etc. discussions pertaining to key performance measures is important.  It is likely that the next authorization will
focus on a performance based program where State DOTs must demonstrate progress towards specific performance targets as a condition of federal
funding.

C.2 Task Order Objective

The objective for this initiative is to organize a peer exchange to meet and share information pertaining to their practices in the subject area
topics.  This effort is being undertaken in coordination with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).

The contractor shall organize, facilitate and invite representatives of 8-10 State DOTs, MPOs, and key stakeholder for a Peer Exchange that has
a duration of 8-12 hours.  The contractor shall also develop a final report that describes each State or other participant’s practices related
to the subject topic as well as includes other key discussion items and conclusions.

C.3 Work Tasks

The contractor shall organize a panel of experts from State DOTs, MPOs, and key stakeholder organizations for a peer exchange to discuss the
current state of practice and identify best practices.  The COTR will provide a list of potential experts to be invited as well as a list of 4-6
questions for each participant to consider in preparing their formal remarks at each peer exchange.  Each participant shall be asked by the
contractor to prepare a 15 minute presentation concerning their practices pertaining to the subject topic, including addressing the questions
provided by the contractor.  Further, the contractor shall provide materials and support for conducting the Peer Exchange and provide a summary
documentation of for to be delivered to the COTR.

The “Asset Management and Performance Measures” peer exchange shall be held in conjunction with the AASHTO Subcommittee on Asset Management
meeting or other identified event in the summer of 2009.

The contractor shall not collect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) as a result of any work performed under this Task Order.  PII shall
be understood to mean but is not limited to home addresses, personal phone numbers and e-mail addresses.

C.4 Work Tasks

The contractor shall organize, facilitate and invite representatives of 8-10 State DOTs, MPOs, and key stakeholder for a Peer Exchange that has
a duration of 8-12 hours to discuss the current state of practice and identify best practices.

The contractor shall organize a panel of experts from State DOTs, MPOs, and key stakeholder organizations for a peer exchange.  The COTR will
provide a list of potential experts to be invited as well as a list of 4-6 questions for each participant to consider in preparing their formal
remarks at each peer exchange.  Each participant shall be asked by the contractor to prepare a 15 minute presentation concerning their practices
pertaining to the subject topic, including addressing the questions provided by the contractor.  Furthermore, the contractor shall provide
materials and support for conducting the Peer Exchange and provide a summary documentation of for to be delivered to the COTR.  The contractor
shall also develop a final report as a result of the Peer Exchange that describes each State or other participant’s practices related to the
Asset Management and Performance Measures as well as other key discussion items and conclusions.

Task 1: Pre-workshop planning and coordination

This task includes the development of an agenda, identification of presenters and potential participants, including representatives from
approximately 10 State DOTs and MPOs and key stakeholder organizations.  Representatives shall include DOTs and MPOs that have experience in
Asset Management and Performance Measures as well as some “learners” who are interested, but not advanced, in Asset Management and Performance
Measures.

A list of possible participants and 4-6 questions will be provided to the contractor by the COTR.  The list of possible participants shall be
used by the contractor to invite the possible participants through invitation letters to the peer exchange.

The contractor shall provide the list of 4-6 questions to each participant to consider in preparing their formal remarks at the peer exchange.
Each participant shall be asked by the contractor to present for approximately 15 minutes on their agency’s successful experience(s) and discuss
effective practices with the peer exchange topic.

The contractor shall also create a draft agenda and invitation letters for the Peer exchange and submit it to the COTR for review.  Following
the review of the agenda and invitation letters; the COTR will comment and return them to the contractor to incorporate comments and
dissemination of the invitation letters.

Task 2: Workshop logistical support and materials

The contractor shall facilitate logistical support for presenters and other attendees as well as to meeting materials for participants and
provide staffing for the Peer Exchange.

The contractor shall further provide a list of attendees requiring funding support for travel as well as a list of contractor staff and their
role at the meeting.  The list of attendees and contractor staff shall be sent to the COTR electronically.

Task 3: Peer Exchange Content and Support

  The Peer Exchange shall bring together State DOTs and MPOs to share information and experience on each topic.  The Peer Exchange shall provide
  an opportunity for State DOTs and MPOs to share experiences that have been successful and to discuss effective practices.  The contractor shall
  support the meeting through note taking and facilitation of discussions.


  As a result of the Peer Exchange the contractor shall submit a draft summary of current practices and key issues related to the Asset
  Management and Performance Measures to the COTR.  Following the COTR’s approval, the contractor shall provide to each participant the approved
  summary of current practices and key issues electronically.  The contractor shall also provide meeting materials and equipment to support
  PowerPoint presentations and facilitate the peer exchange.

Task 4: Post-workshop summary documentation

The contractor shall develop a Draft and Final Report.

The Draft and Final Report shall consist of;
    • A Summary of participant organizations’ asset management and performance management practices, including how these efforts are applied by
      decision makers for resource allocation and conclusions.
    • Identification of key performance measures being applied by the participants’ organization including frequency of data collection and units
      of measure.
    • Identification of areas that need improvement or additional focus by State DOTs.
    • Identification of potential research topics, educational opportunities, and follow-up activities discussed at the Peer Exchange.
    • A summary of the peer exchange and resource materials.
    • Executive Summary Report of the discussions during the Peer Exchange including final copies of materials developed in Tasks 1-3.



C.5 Data Format Requirements


Reports and materials produced under this Task Order shall be provided in Microsoft Word 2000, Excel, and other digital formats  (such  as  Adobe
PDF) as directed by the COTR.

Documents developed for this Task Order shall be prepared in electronic GPO-required format for printing.  The following  programs  are  used  to
create a majority of the print publishing work received by GPO:

 • Page layout: QuarkXPress, Adobe PageMaker, Adobe FrameMaker, Adobe In-Design, Corel Ventura, and Microsoft Publisher 2000.
 • Drawings/Illustrations: Adobe Illustrator, Macromedia FreeHand, and Corel Draw.
 • Image Manipulation: Adobe Photoshop and Corel PhotoPaint.


These are also the preferred programs of the commercial printing industry.  The most recent versions of these software programs should  be  used.
The Contractor should check the software vendors’ web site for current versions and upgrade patches.  Contractors who  use  programs  other  than
those listed below should consider supplying high-resolution PDF files instead of native files.  For  more  information  on  creating  PDF  files
references, visit the GPO E-Pub’s web site at: http://www.gpo.gov/procurement/ditsg


C.6 Requirements for implementing Sections 504 and 508 Standards

Section 508 Rehabilitation Act Compliance

All electronic and information technology (EIT) deliverables rendered under this Task Order shall comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation
Act and the Access Board Standards, which are available for viewing at http://www.section508.gov.  EIT is defined as any equipment or
interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data or information, or used in the
automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data
or information.  EIT includes, but is not limited to, telecommunications products (such as telephones), information kiosks and transaction
machines, World Wide Web sites, multimedia, office equipment such as copiers and fax machines.  It includes computers, ancillary equipment,
software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources.

Unless otherwise indicated, the contractor represents by receipt of this Task Order that all deliverables shall comply with the Access Board
Standards.  In particular, see Standards of Section 508 Part 1194 as appropriate for the products required in this Task Order.  Special
attention should be paid to parts 1194.22, Web-based intranet and internet information and applications, and 1194.31, Functional Performance
Criteria.




SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING


All deliverables shall be appropriately packaged to ensure their safe delivery.




SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE




See Base Contract




SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



      F.1 Deliverables
|Task                                                                                                        |Due Date                       |
|Task 1: Pre-workshop planning and coordination                                                              |                               |
|- Draft Agenda and Invitation letters                                                                       |50 days                        |
|- The COTR will review, comment, and return the Draft Agenda and Invitation letters.                        |55 days                        |
|- Final Agenda and Invitation letters disseminated.                                                         |5 days after comments are      |
|                                                                                                            |received by the COTR           |
|Task 2: Workshop logistical support and materials                                                           |                               |
|- List of contractor staff and their role at the meeting                                                    |70 days                        |
|- List of attendees needing logistical and travel expense support                                           |                               |
|- Facilitation of travel arrangements for participants                                                      |                               |
|Task 3: Peer Exchange                                                                                       |                               |
|- Draft summary of current practices and key issues related to the subject topic sent to participants       |70 DAYS                        |
|- The COTR will review and return the Draft summary with comments.                                          |5 days after Draft is received |
|                                                                                                            |by the COTR                    |
|- The contractor shall incorporate the COTR’s comments and distribute.                                      |5 days after comments are      |
|                                                                                                            |received by the COTR           |
|- Meeting materials such as equipment to support PowerPoint presentations                                   |90 days                        |
|- Facilitation of discussion of best practices at the meeting                                               |                               |
|- Peer Exchange held                                                                                        |                               |
|- Summary of key issues discussed at the meeting including key elements of each participant’s State DOT     |110                            |
|program as they address the topic area, as well as conclusions, recommendations, and areas that need further|                               |
|research.                                                                                                   |                               |
|Task 4: Post-workshop summary documentation                                                                 |                               |
|    - Draft Report                                                                                          |125 days                       |
|   - Final Report                                                                                           |25 days after comments are     |
|Twenty printed originals of the official report                                                             |received by the COTR           |
|Digital files of the Final Report to be provided on a CD (See C.5)                                          |                               |
|Digital files of presentation/resource materials from the meeting to be provided on a CD (two copies)       |                               |

F.2 Period of Performance

The period of performance for this Task Order is __________.

Package and ship deliverables to:
                                  Federal Highway Administration
                             1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE.
                             Washington, D.C 20590
                              Mail Stop: E74-431
                                   Attention: ________

                                                    SECTION G - TASK ORDER ADMINISTRATION DATA

G.1 PAYMENT

The contractor may invoice for the line items stated in Section B of this Task Order, plus any allowable cost, reimbursable travel and  per  diem
expenses.  Invoices shall be submitted original to one of the address stated below plus an email copy to the COTR at __________.  The  contractor
shall refer to the clause 52.232-25 Prompt Payment of the original contract for instructions on submitting invoices.

The contractor is cautioned that to be considered proper and preserve your rights to timely payment  or  interest  penalties,  a  proper  invoice
includes the following information:

1. Name of the business concern, invoice date and number (sequential numbering of invoices under each Task Order is preferable).
2. Task Order number
3. Service being invoiced
4. Amount of current invoice
5. Signature of an authorized official, certifying that the invoiced amounts are proper.
   6. Taxpayer Identification Number


The cumulative amount billed to date, and supporting documentation for travel and per diem or other reimbursable costs  should  be  displayed  on
subsequent pages of the invoice.

INVOICES FAILING TO FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS ARE NOT PROPER FOR PAYMENT AND WILL BE RETURNED FOR CORRECTION.

Invoices submitted for this Task Order shall not contain COSTS FROM other contracts or Task Orders.  The contractor shall submit all invoices  to
one of the following addresses:

All invoices and required supporting documents should be sent via e-mail to the following address:          9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. 

            (a) Include the invoice as an attached PDF document 
            (b) Include the following in the e-mail subject line:
                                    (i) Invoice Number
                   (ii) Task Order Number
                   (iii) Name of your Company/Organization. 
                                    (iv) Attention: Joseph Fusari


Example:  Invoice No. 35 – DTFH61-08-C-00001 – ABC Company – Attention: Joseph Fusari

If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB as an e-mail attachment, you must select one of the other submission options presented
below:

Invoices submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address:

              MMAC
              FHWA/AMZ-150
              6500 S. MacArthur Blvd
              Oklahoma City, OK  73169
              Attention: Joseph Fusari

Invoices may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address:
 
                                Federal Highway Administration
                                Markview Processing
                                P.O. Box 268865
                                Oklahoma City OK  73126-8865
                                Attention: Joseph Fusari
               
All invoices, regardless of submission method, must identify the Contracting Officer as the invoicing point of contact.

Since it is necessary for you to go to the GSA per diem web page to ascertain the correct hotel and M&I expense rates, it would be very helpful
to our review and approval process to include a copy of the web page, with the applicable per diem line highlighted.  Payments may be delayed
when we cannot determine from the invoice which rate applies, and thus cannot approve the invoice without going back to the contractor for more
information

G.2 Travel and Per Diem

Travel and per diem will be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Federal Travel Regulations in effect at the
time of the travel.  Task Orders will include an estimated cost for travel on a not to exceed basis.  Travel reimbursed under this Task Order
shall be based on the most economical form of transportation available only.  Any costs deemed unreasonable will be reduced to a reasonable
amount.  Improper costs will be disallowed and deducted from the invoice.  Any exceptions shall be fully justified and if at all possible, be
approved in advance by the Contracting Officer.  All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of available discount
rates.

Travel requirements shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available.  This includes using connecting rather than direct
flights, and reasonable efforts to insure the most economical flights are secured.  Simply relying on a travel agent may not be sufficient.  If
economy class transportation is not available, the invoice must include justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times,
and flight numbers.

Information on current Federal Travel Regulations and current per diem rates may be obtained at the following web site:

http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC&contentId=17943

If the contractor purchases non-refundable tickets as a cost saving measure, and then is required to change or cancel the tickets due to causes
beyond their control, the contractor may claim reimbursement for service charges.  Unused tickets paid for by the Government must be sent
promptly to the Contracting Officer, unless it is likely they can be reissued for a later trip and the company maintains an adequate accounting
system to protect the tickets from misuse, and insures the Government will not be billed for the subsequent trip.  Complete justification and
accounting must be provided with the invoice.

Saturday night stays are not required to take advantage of lower fares, but if the traveler chooses to stay over, the Government  will  reimburse
the contractor for the additional lodging and per diem expenses if the reduced cost of the  airline  ticket  offsets  these  expenses.   Complete
justification and accounting must be provided with the invoice.

Use of a rental car shall always be justified, and their use is to be the exception rather than the rule.   Alternate  methods  of  local  travel
shall be used whenever possible, such as hotel or airport shuttles and taxis.  When using a rental  car,  your  justification  must  include  the
distance from the airport to the hotel and then to the training site.  The justification must also include the name, phone number, and cost of  a
shuttle service, or statement that none are available.  Remember, the Government is only obligated to pay reasonable costs,  and  without  proper
justification, charges will be reduced or eliminated as being unreasonable.

Personal convenience or “club” membership is not a justification for higher airfares, rental cars, or the choice of airlines or hotels.

The contractor shall always attempt to receive the Government rate for auto rentals and hotel rooms.  Authorization letters  will  be  issued  to
travelers upon request.

G.3 Key Contractor Personnel (Contractor to fill in names of proposed staff)
___________________________________     _________________________________
___________________________________     _________________________________

The above named individuals are designated as key personnel for this Task Order, and are considered essential for its successful performance.
In the event any of the key personnel are unable to perform as proposed for any reason during the performance of the Task Order, the contractor
shall immediately notify the COTR and Contacting Officer in writing.  Such notice will include an explanation of the problem, a proposed
replacement by someone of equal or better qualifications and experience, and shall explain the impact on performance.  All replacements are
subject to the prior approval of the Contracting Officer.  However, the Government reserves the right to approve such replacements retroactively
when circumstances prevent advance approval.


G.4 Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR)

The Contracting Officer has designated Phil Roke as his Technical Representative (COTR) to assist in monitoring the work under this  Task  Order.
The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison with the contractor.  The COTR is  NOT  authorized
to change the statement of work, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any  changes  which  affect  the  Task
Order price, delivery schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions.

The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the  expenditure  of  public  funds,  award,
modify or terminate a contract or Task Order.  The technical administration of this Task Order shall not be construed to authorize  the  revision
of the terms and conditions of this Task Order.

If the contractor receives direction from anyone other than the Contracting  Officer  and  believes  this  will  effect  the  terms,  conditions,
schedule or pricing, they shall not proceed with such direction.  The contractor shall discuss their reservations  with  the  COTR,  and  if  the
issues cannot be resolved, then they shall notify the Contracting Officer, who will resolve the matter.

G.5 Technical Direction

Performance of the work under this Task Order is subject to the Technical Direction of the COTR.  The term “Technical Direction” is defined to
include, without limitation, the following:

a. Directions to the contractor which redirects the effort, shifts work emphasis between work areas, requires pursuit of certain lines of
   inquiry, fills in details, or otherwise serves to accomplish the statement of work;

b. Provision of information to the contractor that assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work
   description; and,

c. Review and approval/rejection of technical reports, drawings, specification, and technical information to be delivered by the contractor.

All Technical Direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the Task Order.  The COTR does not have the authority to, and may not
issue any Technical Direction that: (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the base contract; (ii)
constitutes a change as defined in the base contract clause entitled “Changes;” (iii) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the prices
set forth in Section B; or (iv) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the Task Order.

All Technical Direction must be issued in writing, or shall be confirmed in writing by the COTR within 3 working days after issuance.

The contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of duly issued Technical Directions.

However, if in the opinion of the contractor, the direction issued by the COTR is within one of the proscribed categories in (i) through (iv)
above, the contractor shall not proceed, but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, within 3 working days after receipt of any such
direction.  The Contracting Officer will determine if the Technical Direction is proper, or if a contract modification would be required to
properly implement the direction.

Failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject
to the base contract clause entitled “Disputes.”

                                                   SECTION H - SPECIAL TASK ORDER REQUIREMENTS

N/A
                                                           SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES

SEE BASE CONTRACT ___________.



                                                         SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
NONE

                                                  SECTION K – Representations, Certification and
                                                           Other Statements of Offerors
N/A




                                                SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS


This solicitation is issued under contract DTFH61-09-R-00030 and contains additional information as authorized by the base contract.
Performance and administrative requirements in this Task Order are specific to this Task Order and are in addition to requirements stated in the
base contract.

PRICING STRUCTURE

The Contractor shall furnish all necessary facilities, materials, equipment, and personnel and shall perform technical, non-personal services
necessary to provide systems engineering and support related to administrative and technical matters for policy analyses for the Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA), through issuance of Task Orders.

The total minimum cost/price for performance under this contract is $50,000. The total maximum estimated cost/price for the performance of this
contract is $10,000,000 over the base period of performance.

Over the period of performance, unburdened travel and per diem cost shall not exceed $100,000 per year (all Task Orders).

Over the period of performance, unburdened other direct costs (ODC) shall not exceed $100,000 per year (all Task Orders).


                                             SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK


C.1 Background

The 20th Century was a time of increased technological and societal change for the transportation planning community.  Innovations such as GIS,
GPS, remote sensing, and ITS monitoring technology have provided the transportation professional and the general public a potential overwhelming
wealth of information about personal travel, goods movement and system performance.  While rapid change in the field of transportation is not
unprecedented, the increase in information and ability to analyze and display information may be.


At the same time, understanding and responding to transportation needs has become greater and more complex.  The transportation system in the
United States continues to serve an increasing population and even faster increase in vehicle travel.  More areas have become urbanized and some
of the fastest growing areas are in smaller urban areas.  Both personal trips and goods movements are more diverse in origin and destination,
time of day, and purpose.  The transportation system serving these increasing needs is aging.  At the same time, there is increasing
consideration of other societal goals in the development of transportation programs, from promoting environmental stewardship to incorporating
local community involvement.


The role of transportation planning is changing to emphasize the movement of people and goods as well as environmental, social, economic, land
development, and financial parameters of alternative futures.  The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is being asked to assist the
transportation community in addressing these issues within a transportation schema. This is reflected in the FHWA research agenda – crosscutting
and multi-disciplinary in response to the issues facing planners today.


Within this context, the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA), the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century
(TEA-21), the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), and closely related legislation
such as the Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) charge FHWA and transportation planning at all levels of government with meeting the complex demands
of identifying and responding to future transportation needs. In particular, SAFETEA-LU promotes the assessment of multi-modal transportation
needs and the analysis of the transportation, environmental, economic and social impacts of proposed investment and operational alternatives in
support of decision-making.  Because of this, the research universe the FHWA operates in is fluid, dynamic, and flexible. To realize its
research, development and technical assistance objectives, FHWA requires the support of multi-disciplined contractor teams to meet the
challenges of transportation planning as we continue into the twenty-first century.

C.2 CONTRACT OBJECTIVE

The indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity task order contracts resulting from this request for proposals are intended to give FHWA and its
U.S. Department of Transportation partners the flexibility to address a number of issue areas without specifically identifying each required
task for the life of the contract. The contract holders will be expected to provide a series of services as needed with a variety of
transportation and other expertise brought to bear. They are expected to be able to organize resources to answer sophisticated research
questions that will often be multifaceted and contentious in nature, and provide a broad range of support functions in multiple Task Areas.


The objective of this contract is to provide readily available support to the research program in eight Task Areas:
   A. Congestion
   B. Safety Planning
   C. Security Planning
   D. Freight Planning
   E. State, Metropolitan, Rural, and Tribal Planning Capacity Building
   F. National/International Planning
   G. Tools to Support Planning and Environment
   H. Program Management and Outreach

C.3 TECHNICAL SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS

The contractors shall provide expertise in the major areas described above under the “Contract Objective.”  In addition, upon award of contract,
FHWA shall be able to request up to 20,000 hours of effort per year from the contractor.  This work may be required to be conducted
simultaneously in any, or all, of the major areas above, or simultaneously in a short time period (e.g. the 20,000 hours of effort could all be
required in only six months of the year.)  The specific projects to be completed will be determined on an as needed basis by FHWA.

C.4 SCOPE OF WORK

This contract is designed to give FHWA and its contract partners the flexibility to examine a number of different task areas without
specifically identifying each and every required task for the life of the contract. The contract holders will be expected to provide a series of
services, as needed within the specified task areas.

C.5 TASK AREAS

For each program task area, proposals must demonstrate an understanding of the task and the technical issues involved, along with the experience
and expertise required to address the issues. Examples of experience and expertise include, but are not limited to, research conducted, data
collection and analysis in the subject area, technical assistance on the issues and modeling and model development.


This section describes the specific task areas to be addressed and the technical skills necessary associated with each task area. Offeror’s must
demonstrate an understanding of each task area and an ability to provide all functional capabilities for each technical area.





C.6 FHWA PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING TASK AREAS





TASK AREA A: CONGESTION

The overall goals of this task area are to reduce congestion by:  (1) Strengthening the linkage between transportation systems management and
operations and the statewide and metropolitan transportation planning, programming, and decision-making processes;  (2) Establishing and
building upon working relationships between transportation planning agencies/practitioners and State, regional, and local operators of
transportation systems; (3) Developing and marketing improved and/or new analytical methods that address transportation systems management and
operations strategies in transportation planning and programming processes, products, and decisions; and (3) Expanding the role of Congestion
Management Processes/Systems in shaping and prioritizing regional transportation improvement strategies that address congestion.

Potential activities include:
   1. Developing and deploying improved and/or new tools, techniques, and procedures;
   2. Developing and delivering training, workshops, and technical assistance;
   3. Facilitating communication among and between transportation planning agencies/practitioners and State, regional, and local operators of
      transportation systems;
   4. Identifying analytical needs; and
   5. Collecting and disseminating noteworthy practices for strengthening the state-of-the-practice and addressing Federal program requirements.



TASK AREA B: SAFETY PLANNING
A significant amount of highway safety research is conducted under other FHWA programs. This task area would focus on the limited issue of
improving transportation safety planning by: (1) Developing and improving data collection methods that respond to the needs of planning and
safety decision making processes; and (2) Helping planning agencies build their institutional capacity to integrate safety into the
transportation planning and decision-making process.

Potential activities include:
   1. Identifying analytical needs for improved safety planning; and
   2. Developing tools, techniques, training and procedures for improved safety planning.
   3. White papers on topics such as linkage of safety planning, operations and NEPA, and safety performance measures.

TASK AREA C: SECURITY PLANNING
The overall goals of this task are to:  (1) Raise awareness of the requirement of addressing security within the statewide and metropolitan
planning processes and (2) Support State DOTs and MPOs in their security planning efforts.

Potential activities include:
   1. Collecting and disseminating noteworthy practices for strengthening the state-of-the-practice;
   2. Developing and delivering training, workshops, and technical assistance; and
   3. Facilitating communication among and between the transportation planning communities and appropriate security entities.


TASK AREA D: FREIGHT PLANNING

The overall goals of this task area are to:  (1) Strengthen the linkage between freight issues and considerations and the statewide and
metropolitan transportation planning, programming, and decision-making processes; (2) Establish and build upon working relationships between
public sector transportation agencies and freight shippers and providers of freight transportation services to ensure safe and efficient
movement of freight; and (3) Develop and improve analytical methods that respond to freight issues and considerations in transportation
planning, programming, and decision-making.

Potential activities include:
   1. Identifying analytical needs;
   2. Conducting basic research;
   3. Collecting and disseminating noteworthy practices for strengthening the state-of-the-practice;
   4. Developing tools, techniques, and procedures;
   5. Maintaining and expanding the FHWA Freight Planning website;
   6. Developing and delivering training, workshops, and technical assistance; and
   7. Facilitating communication among and between the public and private sectors.


TASK AREA E: STATE, METROPOLITAN, RURAL, AND TRIBAL PLANNING CAPACITY BUILDING

Public Involvement, Environmental Justice, Visualization in Planning
The goals of this task area are to:  (1) Support State DOTs, MPOs, tribes and other stakeholders to continue capacity building for public
participation in all aspects of the transportation planning process; (2) Assist transportation planning agencies in developing public
participation plans that are comprehensive and inclusive; (3) Ensure the transportation planning process is open to all regardless of race,
color, national origin, or income; and (4) Provide training and research on the use of visualization techniques.

Potential activities include:
   1. Documenting and deploying exemplary public participation practices;
   2. Delivering training and technical assistance;
   3. Developing improved tools, techniques and procedures for incorporating visualization in planning and for increasing public involvement in
      the transportation planning process;
   4. Providing incentives for exemplary practice; and
   5. Improving data collection, monitoring, and analysis tools that assess the needs of, and analyze the potential impacts on minority, low-
      income and other populations.

Other Activities that Support State, Metropolitan, Rural, and Tribal Planning Capacity Building
The overall goal of this task area is to provide assistance to decision makers, transportation officials, and staff to resolve the increasingly
complex issues they face when addressing transportation needs in their communities. This emphasis area is targeted to: (1) Provide background
information for state, metropolitan, rural, and tribal transportation officials to enhance their understanding of the transportation planning
process (statewide and metropolitan), their role within the process, and its relationship to community and societal goals; (2) Strengthen
transportation planning staff skills in the areas of consensus building, understanding policy guidance, and grasping the technical elements of
their job; (3) Provide a means for disseminating commendable examples of transportation planning practices across the nation; (4) Support the
linkage of transportation planning and other topic areas; and (5) Provide data to support the planning process.

Potential activities include:
   1. Developing tools, techniques, procedures; providing incentives for exemplary practice;
   2. Delivering training and technical assistance;
   3. Conducting a peer exchange program on planning issues; in coordination with HEPP’S TPCB program;
   4. Developing training materials and identifying notable practices for use by tribal governments.
   5. Documenting and deploying interdisciplinary/interagency approaches for addressing human and natural environment; issues and interests in
      transportation planning processes; integrated planning; and performance based planning.



TASK AREA F: National/International Planning


US/Canada and US/Mexico Border Planning
The overall goal of this area is to conduct research that will help enable safe, secure and efficient movement of people and goods across the
border and though the binational border area while enhancing the community and the environment. Cooperative research activities will be
undertaken with the 15 land Border States, MPOs, other US federal agencies and Mexico and Canada via the US/Mexico Joint Working Committee on
Transportation Planning and Programming and the US/Canada Transportation Border Working Group.
Potential activities include:
   1. Developing and testing architecture for border transportation information flows;
   2. Developing bi-national innovative financing mechanisms for border-related improvement;
   3. Identifying and assessing infrastructure needs and analyzing their impact on the bi-national transportation system;
   4. Developing bi-national Geographical Information Systems tools and applications to enhance bi-national planning, assessing methods to
      improve and speed information exchange and environmental assessment;
   5. Exploring development of enhanced modeling techniques to improve border and bi-national decision-making; and
   6. Developing bi-national border transportation performance measures.

National Security Defense and Interstate Planning
The overall goals of this task area are to: (1) Conduct research that provides analysis and assessments of the National Highway System (e.g.
Interstate STRAHNET intermodal connectors) for defense planning and environmental decision making; (2) Facilitate rural economic development
related research activities required by SAFETEA-LU; (3) Support the national research community (e.g., TRB committee on economic development and
transportation, military transportation committee, and critical transportation infrastructure protection committee): and (4) Support of FHWA
information needs regarding the extent and nature of state economic development programs.

Potential activities include:
   1. Updating the digital mapping of the NHS components (which is the basis for a number of different research papers);
   2. Developing material to support the research related work of the National Development Organization and the New England Transportation
      Institute pursuant to section of Title V of SAFETEA-LU;
   3. Updating databases used for research;
   4. Creating content for research related websites;
   5. Providing information for TRB economic development committee activities (e.g., national research meetings) and
   6. Providing information for research related activities of other organizations such as the NCHRP and the Delta Regional Authority.


TASK AREA G: Tools to Support Planning and Environment


Travel Modeling
The overall goals of this task area are to: (1) develop and improve analytical methods which respond to the needs of the planning and
environmental decision making processes; (2) deploy these methods to planning agencies; (3) help agencies build their institutional capacity to
develop and deliver traveler related information to support transportation and planning decisions; and (4) develop mechanisms to ensure the
quality of transportation technical analysis used to support decision making at the local, state and federal levels.

Potential activities include:
   1. Basic research on time of day and freight needs in the modeling process;
   2. Developing transportation, land use and air quality analysis tools, techniques and procedures;
   3. Supporting deployment of research products and modifying research products based on applications experience;
   4. Supporting peer reviews of model applications and identifying where research products can enhance model application;
   5. Conducting outreach to make agencies aware of innovative modeling techniques and modeling issues in general;
   6. Supporting regional and national peer exchanges; and
   7. Identifying analytic needs to be addressed by the research program.
   8. Developing advanced travel forecasting methods including activity and tour based demand models; regional traffic simulation or DTA methods
      and linkages between time dependent network models and advanced demand models.

GIS/Spatial Information for Improved Decision Making
The goal of this task area is to improve and support transportation decision making through application of Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
This task will focus on: (1) disseminating knowledge about geospatial technologies; (2) encouraging Federal, State DOTs, resource agencies to
foster partnerships and exchange data, ideas, tools, and methodologies that will result in improved decision making; (3) supporting GIS
activities; and (4) cultivating cutting-edge application of GIS/Spatial information for transportation to improve the decision making process
and enhance the quality of the decision.

Potential activities include:
   1. Mining applications of geospatial technology and assessing their effectiveness for transportation;
   2. Identifying emerging geospatial technology that will be implemented in the next 5 years;
   3. Identifying effective business models and public-private partnerships to support enhanced GIS in transportation;
   4. Developing focus areas for future initiatives to enhance transportation decision-making and the uses of geospatial technologies; and
   5. Conducting collaborative workshops and training; and working with committees of TRB, AASHTO, and other stakeholders.


TASK AREA H: Program Management and Outreach

The goals of this task area are to: (1) Assess and facilitate the implementation of the STEP;
(2) Provide resources to support the dissemination of information related to the STEP; and
(3) Support stakeholder outreach associated with the STEP; and (4) Develop tools to disseminate research results.

Potential activities include: program support; website; workshops; peer reviews; scans; training; technical assistance; presentations;
publications; conferences; and symposia.

SPECIFICATIONS FOR DELIVERABLES:
Applicable reports shall be prepared in accordance with the “Guidelines for Preparing Federal Highway Administration Publications” (which can be
viewed at: http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/orders/h17104.htm). Specifically, the contractor shall provide the government with the
following for each report developed under this contract:

   1) An executive summary under separate cover; An executive summary may be required as a convenience to the readers depending on the
      requirements of individual Tasks Orders.


   2) An electronic version of the report (files in Quark Express, or Adobe products) with GPO Form 952 OR a printed version of the report; A
      camera-ready copy (a publication term used to define the finished manuscript, including all art work (illustrations, photographs, charts,
      or tables) ready for printing by photographic or other means.

   3) A completed ITS Electronic Clearinghouse Document Profile Sheet. This profile must be completed to ensure all reports are properly indexed
      for storage and retrieval.


   4) A Complete Technical Report Documentation Page, form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72), which is located via the Internet at http://www.bts.gov/itc/1700-
      7.pdf This form is necessary to ensure all reports are entered into the National Technical Information Service database.

   5) 508 Compliance (Only for Web related deliverables): All web related electronic documents that are prepared shall meet the requirements of
      Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The act requires that all electronic products prepared for the Federal Government be accessible to
      persons with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, cognitive, and mobility impairments. One can view Section 508 of the
      Rehabilitation Act (http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm) and the Federal IT Accessibility Initiative (Home Page) (http://section508.gov/)
      for detailed information.

                                                        SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING

Preservation, packing, and packaging of items for shipment shall be in accordance with commercial practice and adequate for acceptance by common
carrier for safe transportation at the most economical rates.


SHIPMENT AND MARKING


The Contractor shall clearly mark each shipment in accordance with U.S. Postal Guidelines and include the company name, this contract and Task
Order number, and (when appropriate), the item identification, quantity of items, and notice of partial or final delivery.

                                                      SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

E.1 Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology

Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and
Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194), as specified in the contract as a minimum. If the Contracting Officer determines
any furnished product or service does not comply with the contract, you will be so notified in writing, and prompt corrective action shall be
taken in accordance with the Inspection clause of the base contract.


E.2 work hereunder, including the annual report, shall be subject to review and acceptance by the Government.

52.252-2    CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:
http://www.arnet.gov/far/
All work hereunder shall be subject to review by the Government. Acceptance of the final report shall be made in writing by the Contracting
Officer
      52.246-2   Inspection of Supplies - Fixed-Price. (AUG 1996)
   52.246-4 Inspection of Services - Fixed-Price. (AUG 1996)
   52.246-5 Inspection of Services – Cost-Reimbursement (APR 1984)
   52.246-16      Responsibility for Supplies (APR 1984)



                                                      SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

F.1 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance for ordering under this contract is five years from the contract’s effective date.  Task Orders may be issued up to
the final day within the period of performance provided that they can be completed within 12 months past the period of performance.  All Task
Orders not completed may be reissued to a follow-on Contractor, unless it is deemed to be in the best interests of the Government to allow the
outgoing Contractor to continue performance until completion at the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer.

Performance shall begin on the effective date of the contract. The period of performance for a specific Task Order will be determined prior to
the effective date of the Task Order. All work and services required hereunder including preparation and submission of final reports shall be
completed within each Task Order’s period of performance.

F.2 LEVEL OF EFFORT REQUIRED TO ACCOMPLISH WORK

Direct productive hours are defined as actual work hours exclusive of vacation, holiday, sick leave and all other absences. For purposes of this
contract, one direct productive month is equivalent to 156.67 direct productive hours (1,880 direct productive hours per year/12 months).

In performance of cost-reimbursement Task Orders issued during the period of performance of 5years pursuant to this contract, the contractor
shall provide up to <TBD> direct productive months of technical effort.

F.3 DELIVERABLES

The Contractor shall deliver to the Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) all deliverables according to the schedule negotiated in
each individual Task Order.




F.4 FORMAT FOR DELIVERABLES


At a minimum, the Contractor shall provide all report deliverables in camera-ready hard copy and an electronic copy in Microsoft Office 2003 or
equivalent on a CD-ROM(s). In addition, electronic files containing the word processing, graphic, and table data may be required as deliverables
for individual Task Orders. The Contractor shall establish electronic file transfer capabilities such that correspondence and deliverables can
be communicated electronically to the appropriate FHWA Program Office.




F.5 SOURCE CODE FOR SOFTWARE


Delivery of all source code for all software developed under this contract will be in both electronic and paper format or as detailed in the
respective Task Order.


F.6 FINAL TASK ORDER REPORTS

A Task Order may produce a final report or other product upon completion. The final report or product will be specified at the time the task
order is initiated and shall be delivered on or before the completion date of the Task Order.

F.7 PLACE OF DELIVERY

Correspondence for the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), two hard copies and one electronic copy of the monthly reports,
and deliverables under this contract shall be delivered to the following address:



      Federal Highway Administration
      Office of Planning Environment and Realty,
      1200 New Jersey Avenue SE
      Washington, D.C. 20590
      Room E74-431
      Attention: Phil Roke

Other deliverables, including delivery information, will be identified in individual Task Orders. All deliverables shall be transmitted under a
transmittal letter.

Correspondence for the Contact Specialist, invoices, a copy of all transmittal letters, and one hard copy of the monthly report, shall be
delivered to the following address:

      Federal Highway Administration
            Office of Acquisition Management
            1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE
            Washington, D.C. 20590
      Attention: Joseph Fusari
      OR to: Joseph.Fusari@dot.gov

F.8 SCHEDULE OF WORK

All tasks set forth in the statement of work shall be performed in accordance with the work schedule as negotiated in each individual Task
Order.

                                                    SECTION G  - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA




G.1 TASK ORDER PROCEDURE


All funds expended under this contract shall be incurred, accounted for and invoiced under individual Task Orders. It is likely that Task Orders
will be partially funded initially, then incrementally funded thereafter as they are needed and become available to the program office.

      It is the Governments intent to provide all contractors awarded a contract under this solicitation a fair opportunity to be considered for
each proposed Task Order in the topic awarded. The Government expects to issue a solicitation for a Task Order proposal to each eligible
contractor asking for a technical proposal and pricing information.  However, the Government may issue Task Orders on a non-competitive basis or
limited competitive basis as may be appropriate and authorized by law. The Contracting Officer will select the offer that is considered most
advantageous to the Government considering technical merit of each proposal, key personnel, cost, and past performance on other Task Orders.
Task Order solicitations will specify the evaluation criteria that will be utilized together with a statement of the relative importance of each
criterion. The selection of a contractor to perform a Task Order is generally not subject to protest.  Each Task Order will provide specific
information on the work to be performed, the objectives or results desired, a period of performance, deliverables, pricing and other terms
specific to the individual Task Order.

The work shall be conducted by the contractor on an as needed basis, within the scope of the contract. The exact nature and extent of the
contractor’s work under this contract will be based upon written Task Orders developed by the Government. Once work is identified, the
Government will issue a Request for Task Order Proposal. Such requests will be issued electronically. The contractor shall submit to the
Contracting Officer a Task Order Proposal (TOP) within the time specified for submission. Task Order proposals will normally be submitted
electronically and will typically contain:

1. Discussion of the technical approach for performing the work.
2. Period of Performance and Schedule of Work.
3. Estimated level of effort, types of staffing and number of hours, including those in (5) below.
4. Travel, per diem, equipment and materials estimates.
5. An estimate for subcontractors and consultants, including direct labor hours and cost
    information if applicable.
6. Fixed prices
7. Key personnel with their resumes.
8. Experience and past performance.

The cost for the preparation and submittal of the TOP is the responsibility of the contractor.

 If the contractor is not able, or does not wish, to compete for a specific task order it must so state in writing to the Contracting Officer in
lieu of a TOP. However, contractors are strongly encouraged to make every effort to explore teaming, subcontracting or other arrangements so as
to be able to propose on every offered task order. Failure to make reasonable efforts to propose on each solicitation issued will be considered
under the past performance evaluation factor during source selection.

G.2 TASK ORDER AWARD

The Contracting Officer may enter into negotiations with those contractors submitting a TOP, and may request a revised TOP, as the situation may
warrant.

The Government will evaluate each TOP in accordance with the stated evaluation criteria, and will award the Task Order to the contractor who
offers the best value to the Government.

Upon mutual agreement of the parties as to the work to be performed, the schedule, and the pricing, the FHWA will issue a Task Order. The
contractor shall acknowledge acceptance of the Task Order and shall immediately proceed with the conduct of the work.

Task Orders will contain the following information:

1. Name and signature of the Contracting Officer.
2. Contract Number, Task Order number and Task Order effective date.
3. A description of the task including deliverables.
4. Accounting and appropriation data.
5. The negotiated fixed prices.
6. Document and reporting requirements, as applicable
7. Delivery or performance schedule.
8. Key Personnel
9. Billing information



G.3 AGENCY TASK ORDER OMBUDSMAN





The Contracting Officer’s selection decision on each Task Order request shall be final and is not subject to protest, except for a protest that
the Task Order increases the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract. Accordingly, in accordance with FAR 16.505 (b) (5), an ombudsman
has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of contractor’s concerns resulting from task order award. The existence of the
ombudsman does not diminish the authority of the Contracting Officer. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of the
proposals or the adjudication of formal contract disputes. Therefore, before consulting with the ombudsman, interested parties must first
address their concerns, issues, disagreements and/or recommendations to the Contracting Officer for resolution.


If the Contracting Officer cannot make resolution, interested parties may contact the FHWA ombudsman, Ms. Patricia Prosperi, at the following
address:

Ms. Patricia A. Prosperi
Associate Administrator for Administration/Agency Competition Advocate
HAD-1
1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE
Washington, DC 20590
E-mail: administration.fhwa@dot.gov

G.4 TRAVEL AND PER DIEM

Travel and per diem will be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Federal Travel Regulations in effect at the
time of the travel. Task Orders will include an estimated cost for travel on a not to exceed basis. Travel reimbursed under this contract shall
be based on the most economical form of transportation available only. Any costs deemed unreasonable will be reduced to a reasonable amount.
Improper costs will be disallowed and deducted from the invoice. Any exceptions shall be fully justified and if at all possible, be approved in
advance by the Contracting Officer. All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of available discount rates.

Travel requirements shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available. This includes using connecting rather than direct
flights, and reasonable efforts to insure the most economical flights are secured. Simply relying on a travel agent may not be sufficient. If
economy class transportation is not available, the invoice must include justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times,
and flight numbers.

Information on current Federal Travel Regulations and current per diem rates may be obtained at the following web site:

http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC&contentId=17943

If the contractor purchases non-refundable tickets as a cost saving measure, and then is required to change or cancel the tickets due to causes
beyond their control, the contractor may claim reimbursement for service charges. Unused tickets paid for by the Government must be sent
promptly to the Contracting Officer, unless it is likely they can be reissued for a later trip and the company maintains an adequate accounting
system to protect the tickets from misuse, and insures the Government will not be billed for the subsequent trip.  Complete justification and
accounting must be provided with the invoice.

Saturday night stay over are not required to take advantage of lower fares, but if the traveler chooses to stay over, the Government will
reimburse the contractor for the additional lodging and per diem expenses if the reduced cost of the airline ticket offsets these expenses.
Complete justification and accounting must be provided with the invoice.

Use of a rental car shall always be justified, and their use is to be the exception rather than the rule.  Alternate methods of local travel
shall be used whenever possible, such as hotel or airport shuttles and taxis.  If using a rental car, your justification must include the
distance from the airport to the hotel and then to the training site. Also the name, phone number, and cost of a shuttle service/taxi, or
statement that none are available. Remember, the Government is only obligated to pay reasonable costs, and without proper justification, charges
will be reduced or eliminated as being unreasonable.

Personal convenience or “club” membership is not a justification for higher airfares, rental cars, or the choice of airlines or hotels.

The contractor shall always attempt to receive the Government rate for auto rentals and hotel rooms. Authorization letters will be issued to
travelers upon request.


G.5 CONTRACTING OFFICER’S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR)

The Contracting Officer will designate a Technical Representative (COTR) for each contract to assist in monitoring the work under the contract
as well as the Task Orders issued there under.  The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison
with the Contractor.  The COTR is NOT authorized to change the statement of work, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government
or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions of the contract.

The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds, award,
modify or terminate a contract or Task Order.  The technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of
the terms and conditions of this contract.

If the contractor receives direction from anyone other than the Contracting Officer it believes will effect the terms, conditions, schedule or
pricing, it shall not proceed with such direction. The contractor shall discuss its reservations with the COTR, and if the issues cannot be
resolved, then it shall notify the contracting officer who will resolve the matter.

G.6 TECHNICAL DIRECTION

Performance of the work under this Task Order is subject to the Technical Direction of the COTR. The term “Technical Direction” is defined to
include, without limitation, the following:

a.  Directions to the contractor which redirects the effort, shifts work emphasis between work areas, requires pursuit of certain lines of
   inquiry, fills in details or otherwise serves to accomplish the statement of work;

b.  Provision of information to the contractor that assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of the work
   description; and,

c.  Review and approval/rejection of technical reports, drawings, specifications and technical information to be delivered by the contractor.

All Technical Direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the Task Order. The COTR does not have the authority to, and may not
issue any Technical Direction that: (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the base contract; (ii)
constitutes a change as defined in the base contract clause entitled “Changes”; (iii) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the prices
set forth in Section B; or (iv) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions or specifications of the Task Order.

All Technical Direction must be issued in writing, or shall be confirmed in writing by the COTR within 3 working days after issuance.

The contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of duly issued Technical Directions.

However, if in the opinion of the contractor, the direction issued by the COTR is within one of the proscribed categories in (i) through (iv)
above, the contractor shall not proceed, but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, within 3 working days after receipt of any such
direction. The Contracting Officer will determine if the Technical Direction is proper, or if a contract modification would be required to
properly implement the direction.

Failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the direction, or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject
to the base contract clause entitled “Disputes.”


G.7 KEY PERSONNEL


As part of its contract proposal and each Task Order proposal, the contractor shall designate a Project Manager and other personnel deemed by
the contractor to be essential to the successful completion of the contract/Task Order.  For instructional delivery contracts/task orders all
instructors are considered Key Personnel.  These individuals will be listed in the contract/task order as Key Personnel. In the event any of the
Key Personnel are unable to perform as proposed for any reason during the performance of the contract/Task Order, the contractor shall
immediately notify the COTR and Contacting Officer in writing. Such notice will include an explanation of the problem, a proposed replacement by
someone of equal or better qualifications and experience, and shall explain the impact on performance. All replacements are subject to the prior
written approval of the Contracting Officer. However, the Government reserves the right to approve such replacements retroactively when
circumstances prevent advance approval.

G.8 MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORT

The Contractor shall furnish an electronic copy (in Microsoft Office 2000 or equivalent) of a monthly letter-type progress report to the
Contracting Specialist and the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative, with each monthly invoice, but no later than the 10th of the
month following the calendar month being reported.  Each report shall contain concise statements covering the following:

Summary level for all tasks (#1-3):

   1. Budget and scheduling information including the date each work order was initiated, the estimated completion date, original estimate of
      resources needed/planned (labor hours and costs, travel costs and Other Direct Costs (ODC)); a tabulation of resources expended that month;
      a tabulation of cumulative total-to-date resources expended; and a comparison of percentage of resources planned, to resources expended, to
      resources needed to complete the work, and clearly identify any projected overrun of resources. The contractor shall also clearly identify
      any projected overruns for any and all task orders.

   2. A description of any contract problem encountered or anticipated that will affect the completion of the contract within the time and fiscal
      constraints as set forth in the contract, together with recommended solutions to such problems; or, a statement that no problems were
      encountered.


   3. Any contract improvement recommendations.

Task by task basis (#4-8):

   4. A clear and complete account of the work performed on each task and an outline of the work to be accomplished during the next report
      period.


   5. Budget and scheduling information including the date each work order was initiated, the estimated completion date, original estimate of
      resources needed/planned (labor hours and costs, travel costs and ODC); a tabulation of resources expended that month; a tabulation of
      cumulative total-to-date resources expended; and a comparison of percentage of resources planned, to resources expended, to resources
      needed to complete the work, and clearly identify any projected overrun of resources.

   6. A description of any Task Order problem(s) encountered or anticipated that will affect the completion of the contract within the time and
      fiscal constraints as set forth in the Task Order, together with recommended solutions to such problems: or, a statement that no problems
      were encountered.

   7. A chart showing current and cumulative expenditures by tasks versus planned expenditures, and percentage of work completed.

   8. Any task order improvement recommendations.

NOTE: Individual Task Orders may require additional monthly reporting requirements. If so, that information will be delineated in the Task
       Order.


G.9 ANNUAL REPORT


The Contractor shall furnish 1 hard copy of a letter-type annual report to the Contracting Officer and 1 electronic copy (in Microsoft Office
2003 or equivalent) to the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative on or before 60 calendar days before the end of each contract year.
The annual report shall contain a discussion of the activities conducted during the period being reported, a financial summary for the reporting
period, and an assessment of the progress made toward achieving the objectives of the contract. The report will also contain a discussion of
problems encountered or anticipated that might affect performance during the following year, and recommend solutions to such problems.

The annual report will be used by the COTR as part of the annual performance review. The Contractor shall revise staffing, work assignments, and
financial controls, as needed, based on annual performance reviews.



G.10 PERFORMANCE REVIEW MEETINGS


As required by the COTR or Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall meet with the COTR and/or Contracting Officer and other interested parties
to discuss current operational considerations, when requested.


G.11 REPORTS OF PROBLEMS


In addition to the monthly progress reports and performance review meetings specified above, the Contractor shall bring actual or potential
problems to the attention of the COTR and Contract Specialist as soon as they are known. Oral reports shall be followed by written reports
within 10 working days, or as directed by the COTR or Contract Specialist.

G.12 FUNDS AVAILABLE

The clause entitle "LIMITATION OF FUNDS" applies to this contract. The clauses  “LIMITATION OF FUNDS” and “LIMITATION OF COST” apply to each
Task Order as applicable. Any notification required on the part of the Contractor shall be made in writing to the Contracting Officer. In the
event that the contract is not funded beyond the estimated cost set forth in the schedule, the Contractor shall deliver to the Contracting
Officer the data collected and the material produced or in process or acquired in connection with the performance of the project provided herein
together with a summary report electronically of its progress and accomplishments to date.

   a. Currently funds in the amount of <TBD> dollars <$TBD> are obligated to this contract.

   b. Funds will be obligated as each task order is issued. All work is to be performed under a fully executed Task Order.

G.13 PAYMENT

   a.       For each fixed price task order, the Government shall pay the contractor the fixed price specified in the task order. Payment shall
      be made upon review and written acceptance of the fixed price deliverable(s) by the Government.

   b. For cost reimbursable task orders, the Contractor may be reimbursed for the direct productive labor hours, up to but not exceeding, those
      specified under the SECTION B schedule. The Contractor may also be reimbursed for direct and indirect costs incurred in the performance
      thereof as are allowable under the provisions of Subpart 31.2, 31.3, 31.6, or 31.7 <as applicable> of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in
      the not-to-exceed amount listed under the SECTION B schedule, subject to the Limitation of Funds Clause.

   c. For cost reimbursable tasks, each monthly interim payment request shall be supported by a statement of costs incurred by the Contractor in
      the performance of this contract and claimed to constitute allowable costs. These payments shall be made after receipt of a proper request
      by the designated billing office. Any payments hereunder will be made upon determination by the Contracting Officer that the requirements
      of the contract are being met.


   d. Final invoice payment shall be made upon the Contracting Officers determination that all requirements of the contract have been completed.
      The payment due date for final invoice shall be established in compliance with the clause 52.232-25.


   e. Each monthly interim payment request and the final invoice shall be submitted in accordance with the format contained in the attached “The
      FHWA Billing Instructions for Cost-Reimbursement Contracts” to be considered proper for payment. Prior approval of the Contracting Officer
      is required if the contractor wishes to use a different format.

G.14 INDIRECT COSTS

Pending the establishment of final indirect cost rates which shall be negotiated based on audit of actual costs as provided in Subpart 42.7 of
the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for allowable indirect costs hereunder as identified below:

      Indirect Cost Element: Rate (.000%)     Type:      Base (applied to):


      <to be negotiated>

This INDIRECT COST provision does not operate to waive the LIMITATION OF FUNDS Clause. The Contractor’s audited final indirect costs are
allowable only insofar as they do not cause the Contractor to exceed the total estimated costs for performance of the contract listed on page 2
(SECTION B) and under the PAYMENT provision above.


G.15 LABOR ESCALATION


Labor rates for all personnel billed under this contract shall incorporate an aggregate salary escalation not to exceed <TBD> per year, during
the period of performance, including option periods.

G.16 BILLING RATES

The provisional labor and indirect rates negotiated under this contract for billing purposes shall remain in effect until revised rates have
been approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall request new provisional billing rates in writing, no more frequently
than semi-annually. Such request shall delineate the current and proposed rates to be used, along with the proposed effective date of new rates.


G.17 SUBCONTRACTS – ADVANCE NOTIFICATION AND CONSENT


Under this contract, the requirements of FAR 44.2, CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACTS, have been fulfilled for the following subcontracts:

<as proposed/negotiated>

Any future change or revision to the Statement of Work or other applicable aspects of this contract shall include the subcontract(s) only to the
extent that performance of the subcontract(s) is directly affected by the change or revision.

Additional Consent To Subcontracts will be on a Task Order by Task Order basis in accordance with FAR 44.2 and FAR 52.244-1 or FAR 52.244-2, as
applicable.

G.18 Payment

The contractor may invoice for the line items stated in Section B of this Task Order, plus any allowable cost reimbursable travel and per diem
expenses.  Invoices shall be submitted original to one of the address stated below plus an email copy to the COTR at Phil.Roke@dot.gov .  The
contractor shall refer to the clause 52.232-25 Prompt Payment of the original contract for instructions on submitting invoices.

The Fixed Fees may be invoiced upon successful completion of each deliverable.

The contractor is cautioned that to be considered proper and preserve your rights to timely payment or interest penalties, a proper invoice
includes the following information:

1. Name of the business concern, invoice date and number (sequential numbering of invoices under each Task Order is preferable).
2. Task Order number
3. Service being invoiced
4. Amount of current invoice
5. Signature of an authorized official, certifying that the invoiced amounts are proper.
   6. Taxpayer Identification Number
   1.
The cumulative amount billed to date, and supporting documentation for travel and per diem or other reimbursable costs should be displayed on
subsequent pages of the invoice.

INVOICES FAILING TO FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS ARE NOT PROPER FOR PAYMENT AND WILL BE RETURNED FOR CORRECTION.

Invoices submitted for this task order shall not contain cost from other contracts or task orders. The contractor shall submit all invoices to
one of the following addresses:

All invoices and required supporting documents should be sent via e-mail to the following address:          9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. 

            (a) Include the invoice as an attached PDF document 
            (b) Include the following in the e-mail subject line:
                                    (i) Invoice Number
                   (ii) Task Order Number
                   (iii) Name of your Company/Organization. 
                                    (iv) Attention: Joseph Fusari


Example:  Invoice No. 35 – DTFH61-08-C-00001 – ABC Company – Attention: Bob Prior

If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB as an e-mail attachment, you must select one of the other submission options presented
below:

Invoices submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address:

              MMAC
              FHWA/AMZ-150
              6500 S. MacArthur Blvd
              Oklahoma City, OK  73169
              Attention: Joseph Fusari

Invoices may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address:
 
                                Federal Highway Administration
                                Markview Processing
                                P.O. Box 268865
                                Oklahoma City OK  73126-8865
                                Attention: Joseph Fusari
               
All invoices, regardless of submission method, must identify the Contracting Officer as the invoicing point of contact.

Since it is necessary for you to go to the GSA per diem web page to ascertain the correct hotel and M&I expense rates, it would be very helpful
to our review and approval process to include a copy of the web page, with the applicable per diem line highlighted. Payments may be delayed
when we cannot determine from the invoice which rate applies, and thus cannot approve the invoice without going back to the contractor for more
information

                                                    SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS


H.1 CONTRACT START UP


The contactor shall be prepared to accept and respond to Task Order RFPs upon the effective date of the contract.


H.2 PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY


The Federal Highway Administration, Office of Acquisition Management, is the only agency that is authorized to place orders under this contract,
or to modify, suspend or terminate this contract. The Contracting Officer is the only individual within FHWA authorized to perform this
function.


H.3 NONPERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT


This contract is a “nonpersonal services contract” as defined FAR Section 37.101. It is understood and agreed that the contractor and its
employees, consultants and subcontractors:

   1.       Shall perform the services specified herein as independent contractors, not as
      employees of the Government;
   2.       Shall be responsible for their own management and administration of the work
      Required, and bear sole responsibility for complying with all technical, schedule, or financial requirements or constraints attendant to
      the performance of this contract;
   3.       Shall be free from any direct or indirect supervision or control by any government
      employee, however.
   4.       Shall, pursuant to the government rights under contract clauses such as “Inspection,” and “Key Personnel”  comply with such general
      direction of authorized Government employees as is necessary and appropriate to ensure accomplishment of the contract requirements and
      objectives.

H.4 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY

Any Government Furnished Property provided for the performance of this contact shall be accounted for as provided in Transportation Acquisition
Regulation Subpart 1245.5.

H.5 ACCESS TO SENSITIVE INFORMATION BY CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES

Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information[1], which shall not be disclosed by the contractor unless authorized by the
contracting officer. To protect sensitive information, the contractor shall provide training to any contractor employee authorized access to
sensitive information and, upon request of the Government, provide information as to an individual's suitability to have such authorization.
Contractor employees found by the Government to be unsuitable or whose employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with
the best interest of national security, may be prevented from performing work under the particular contract when requested by the contracting
officer.


The contractor shall ensure that contractor employees are: (1) citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully
admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced by Immigration and Naturalization Service
documentation; and (2) have background investigations in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management.

The Contractor’s employees may be required to sign the Confidentiality Statement (Attachment #5).


The contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded involving access to Government facilities, sensitive information,
and/or resources.

H.6 TASK ORDER BID PREPARATION COSTS

This contract will not include a separate administrative task to cover the costs of bidding on Task Orders. Offerors are to handle such costs in
accordance with their disclosure statements/cost accounting system.

H.7 LIMITATION OF FUTURE CONTRACTING

It is required by the parties of this contract that the Contractor will be restricted in its future contracting with the Government, for any
service or product which may encompass hardware or software product development for commercial purposes, participation in other research and
development contract, and operational testing partnership arrangements which are a result of policy analyses research particular to this
contract. Accordingly, the Contractor shall be ineligible to perform the work described as a prime contractor, subcontractor or consultant, or
in any capacity to any supplier under an ensuing Government contract. Such restrictions shall remain in effect for 3 years following the
completion date of this contract.

H.8 PROTECTION OF INFORMATION AND LIMITATION OF FUTURE CONTRACTING

   a. It is anticipated that in performance of this contract, the Contractor may require access to, or receipt of, information and data relating
      to FHWA’s plans, programs, technical requirements, and budgetary matters, and such other information, the disclosure of which may give
      competitive advantage to recipients or would be adverse to the interests of the Government.

   b. The Contractor shall not disclose such information acquired to anyone, other than those Contractor, subcontractor, or consultant personnel
      performing work under this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer, until such time as the Government may
      have authorized the release of such information and data to the public.

   c. To the extent that the work under this contract requires access to proprietary, business confidential, or financial data of other
      companies, and as long as such data remains proprietary or confidential, the Contractor shall protect such data from unauthorized use and
      disclosure and agrees not to use it to compete against such companies.

   d. It is anticipated that during performance of this contract, the Contractor may be issued Task Orders involving technical evaluations of
      other Contractor’s offers or products. FAR 9.505-3 provides that contracts shall not generally be awarded to a Contractor that would
      evaluate, or advise the Government concerning, its own products or activities, or those of a competitor, without proper safeguards to
      ensure objectivity and protect the Government’s interest. These safeguards will be accomplished by restricting future contracting with the
      Government, as delineated below.

   e. FHWA will not unilaterally disclose to the Contractor any proprietary information furnished by domestic or foreign participants in FHWA’s
      programs. If the Contractor requires access to such information in performance of this contract, an agreement concerning release and
      restrictions on the use of such data must be sought by the Contractor with the source of the data.

   f. It is required by the parties of this contract, that the Contractor will be restricted in its future contracting with the Government, for
      any service or product which may encompass information acquired under items a and c above that is not publicly available and could give a
      competitive advantage to the Contractor or would be adverse to the interests of the Government. Accordingly, the Contractor shall be
      ineligible to perform as a prime contractor, subcontractor or consultant, or in any capacity to any supplier under an ensuring Government
      contract. Any questions on this matter shall be immediately addressed to the Contracting Officer.

   g. These restrictions do not limit the Contractor’s right to use and disclose any information and data obtained from another source without
      restriction.

   h. The Contractor agrees to train its employees who will have access to such sensitive information in all necessary security procedures and
      required them to sign non-disclosure statements and certificates attesting to their understanding of the requirements for safeguarding such
      information.

   i. In the event that the Contractor fails to comply with this provision of the contract, the Government may terminate the contract for
      default.

   j. The Contractor shall include this provision, including this paragraph, in all subcontracts and consultant agreements for performance of
      work under this contract unless excused in writing by the Contracting Officer.

H.9 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED OR ACQUIRED PROPERTY

Any Government furnished or contractor acquired property provided or obtained under the performance of this contract shall be accounted for as
provided in Transportation Acquisition Regulation (TAR) Subpart 1245.5, and by:

       70. GOVERNMENT PROPERTY REPORTS (OCT 1994)

   a) The contractor shall prepare an annual report of Government property in its possession and the possession of its subcontractors.


   b) The report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer not later than September 15 of each calendar year on Form DOT F 4220.43,
      Contractor Report of Government Property.

                                                           SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES

             1. 52.202-1        Definitions.     (JUL 2004)
             2. 52.203-3        Gratuities.     (APR 1984)
             3. 52.203-5        Covenant Against Contingent Fees.     (APR 1984)
             4. 52.203-6        Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government.     (SEP 2006)
             5. 52.203-7        Anti-Kickback Procedures.     (JUL 1995)
             6. 52.203-8        Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity.  (JAN 1997)
             7. 52.203-10      Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity.     (JAN 1997)
             8. 52.203-12       Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions.     (SEP 2007)
             9. 52.203-14    Display of Hotline Poster(s). (DEC 2007)
            10. 52.204-1     Approval of Contract (DEC 1989)
            11. 52.204-2        Security Requirements (AUG 1996)
            12. 52.204-4        Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper.     (AUG 2000)
 13. 52.204-7        Central Contractor Registration    (APR 2008)
            14. 52.209-6        Protecting the Governments Interest When Subcontracting with  Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for
                Debarment.     (SEP 2006)
            15. 52.215-2        Audit and Records - Negotiation.     (JUN 1999)
            16. 52.215-8        Order of Precedence--Uniform Contract Format.     (OCT 1997)
            17. 52.215-11      Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data – Modifications   (OCT 1997)
            18. 52.215-13    Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data – Modifications (OCT 1997)
            19. 52.219-19    Notifications of Ownership Changes (OCT 1997)
            20. 52.215-21      Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data--Modifications.     (OCT
                1997)
            21. 52.216-18      Ordering.     (OCT 1995)
              a. Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by  issuance of delivery orders or task orders by
                 the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from date of award through 60 months after
                 award.
              b. All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this  contract. In the event of a conflict between
                 a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.
              c. If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered “issued” when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may
                 be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods.
           22. 52.216-22     Indefinite Quantity.  (OCT 1995) Insert “72 months after date of award” at the end of the clause.
            23. 52.216-25     Contract Definitization (OCT 1997)
            24. 52.219-4       Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business
                                Concerns  (JUL 2005)
            25. 52.219-8       Utilization of Small Business Concerns.      (MAY 2004)
            26. 52.219-9       Small Business Subcontracting Plan   (APR 2008)
            27. 52.219-16     Liquidated Damages – Subcontracting Plan   (JAN 1999)
            28. 52.219-28     Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation  (JUN 2007)


            29. 52.222-3       Convict Labor.     (JUN 2003)
            30. 52.222-21     Prohibition of Segregated Facilities.     (FEB 1999)
            31. 52.222-26     Equal Opportunity.     (MAR 2007)
           32. 52.222-35     Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the   Vietnam Era and Other Eligible Veterans
               (SEP 2006)
           33. 52.222-36     Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities.     (JUN 1998)
           34. 52.222-37     Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans and Veterans of               the Vietnam Era and other Eligible
               Veterans    (SEP 2006)
           35. 52.222-38     Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements
                                (DEC 2001)
            36. 52.22-50           Combating Trafficking in Persons (AUG 2007)
            37. 52.223-5        Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information  (AUG 2003)
            38. 52.223-6        Drug-Free Workplace.     (MAY 2001)
            39. 52.223-10    Waste Reduction Program (AUG 2000)
            40. 52.223-14      Toxic Chemical Release Reporting.     (AUG  2003)
            41. 52.224-1        Privacy Act Notification.     (APR 1984)
            42. 52.224-2        Privacy Act.     (APR 1984)
            43. 52.225-13        Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases    (JUN 2008)
            44. 52.227-1        Authorization and Consent.     (DEC 2007)
            45. 52.227-2         Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement      (DEC 2007)
            46. 52.227-14      Rights in Data - General.     (DEC 2007)
            47. 52.227-19      Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights.     (DEC 2007)
            48. 52.228-5        Insurance-Work on a Government Installation  (JAN 1997)
            49. 52.228-7        Insurance – Liability to Third Persons  (MAR 1996)
            50. 52.229-3        Federal, State, and Local Taxes.     (APR 2003)
            51. 52.232-1        Payments.     (APR 1984)
            52. 52.232-8        Discounts for Prompt Payment.     (FEB 2002)
            53. 52.232-17      Interest   (JUN 1996)
            54. 52.232-23      Assignment of Claims.     (JAN 1986)
            55. 52.232-25      Prompt Payment.     (OCT 2003)
            56. 52.232-33      Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer -- Central Contractor  Registration.  (OCT 2003)
            57. 52.233-1        Disputes.     (JUL 2002)
            58. 52.233-3        Protest after Award.     (AUG 1996)
            59. 52.233-4        Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim  (OCT 2004)
            60. 52.237-2        Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (APR 1984)
            61. 52.242-13      Bankruptcy.     (JUL 1995)
            62. 52.242-17    Government Delay of Work (APR 1984)
            63. 52.243-1        Changes - Fixed-Price. (AUG 1987)  Alternate II     (APR 1984)
            64. 52.243-1        Changes – Cost Reimbursement . (AUG 1987)  Alternate I     (APR 1984)
            65. 52.244-6         Subcontracts for Commercial Items    (MAR 2007)
            66. 52.246-25      Limitation of Liability--Services     (FEB 1997)
            67. 52.248-1        Value Engineering    (FEB 2000)
            68. 52.249-2        Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price)     (MAY 2004)
            69. 52.249-2     Excusable Delays (APR 1984)
            70. 52.249-8        Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service)     (APR 1984)
            71. 52.252-2        Clauses Incorporated by Reference    (FEB 1998)
                This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.
                Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed
                electronically at either of these addresses: http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60/ or http://www.arnet.gov/far/
            72. 52.253-1        Computer Generated Forms     (JAN 1991)

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATION
(48 CFR 12) CLAUSES
            73. 1252.223-71  Accident and Fire Reporting  (APR 2005)
            74. 1252.223-73  Seat Belt Use Policies and Programs (APR 2005)
            75. 1252.237-70  Qualifications of Contractor Employees  (APR 2005)
            76. 1252.237-72  Prohibition on Advertising  (JAN 1996)
            77. 1252.242-71  Contractor Testimony  (OCT 1994)
            78. 1252.242-72  Dissemination of Contract Information  (OCT 1994)
            79. 1252.245-70  Government Property Reports  (OCT 1994)
            80. FRAUDULENT LETTERS

*****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS***********

      Recently, U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) contractors and potential contractors have received fraudulent letters purporting to be
      issued by DOT. Often the letters have been signed by “John Duncan, Senior Procurement Officer”. These fraudulent letters request that
      current or potential contractors resubmit their Central Contractor Registration System (CCR) banking information to DOT.  If you receive
      such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the
      facsimile number cited in the letter.  Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to
      verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system.  However, to register, contractors should go directly through the CCR
      website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For information on how
      to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/.

      The point of contact concerning these fraudulent letters is the DOT Office of the Inspector General. You should call their hotline at 1-800-
      424-9071.

I.73      FH.1 Printing Restrictions

      All printing funded by this agreement must be done in conformance with Joint Committee on Printing regulations as prescribed in Title 44,
      United States Code, and Section 308 of Public Law 101-163, and all applicable Government Printing Office and Department of Transportation
      regulations.

I.74        Final Invoice

      The final invoice, if more than one invoice is submitted, or the only invoice submitted for this order is to be marked “FINAL INVOICE” on
      its face.
                                                         SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS


SOLICITATION ATTACHMENTS



   A. Proposal Cover Sheets – 1 pages


   B. DOT Form 4220.44, Contract Pricing Summary and Instructions http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/aaa/frm4220_44.pdf
      http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/aaa/frminst44.pdf

   C. Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities
      http://www.forms.gov/bgfPortal/citizen.portal?_nfpb=true&portlet_1_1_actionOverride=/portlets/eFormSearch/formDetailsAction&portlet_1_1docum
      entNum=12781

   D. Past Performance Questionnaire – 2 pages

   E. Sample Task – 1 page

                             SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS

K.1  52.204-8   Annual Representations and Certifications (JAN 2005)

      (a)   (1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration is included in this solicitation, paragraph (b) of this provision
           applies.


           (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed
           the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (b) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding
           individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of
           the following boxes:


                 [ ] (i) Paragraph (b) applies.


                 [ ] (ii) Paragraph (b) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the
                 solicitation.


      (b) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and
      Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by
      submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the
      last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to
      the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR
      4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These
      amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the
      date of this offer.
|FAR Clause #              Title                Date                Change                                         |
|____________        _________       _____         _____________                                                   |










      Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
      certifications posted on ORCA.


K. 2  FEDERAL PROCUREMENT DATA

Please provide the information requested below:

   a. DUNS Number:  ________________________+ 4__________

   b. Taxpayer Identification Number:  ________________________

   c. Home Office Congressional District  _______________________

Business size & type [e.g. HubZone, SDVOSB, WOSBC etc.] ________________________

K.3 52.219-1 Small Business Program Representations. (OCT 2000)  Alternate I (OCT 2000) (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611.


           (2) The small business size standard is $7 million.


           (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service
           contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

K.4 1252.237-71 Certification of Data (JAN 1996)

(a) The offeror represents and certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief, the information and/or data (e.g., company profile;
qualifications; background statements; brochures) submitted with its offer is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of its offer.

(b) The offeror understands that any inaccurate data provided to the Department of Transportation may subject the offeror, its subcontractors,
its employees, or its representatives to: (1) prosecution for false statements pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001 and/or; (2) enforcement action for
false claims or statements pursuant to the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 and 49 CFR Part 31 and/or; (3)
termination for default under any contract resulting from its offer and/or; (4) debarment or suspension.

(c) The offeror agrees to obtain a similar certification from its subcontractors.

Signature:__________________________Date:_______________________________

Typed Name and Title:___________________________________________________

Company Name:_________________________________________

This certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or
fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001.

K.5 Representation of Compliance with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards

___ No compliance and there is no expectation of compliance.
___ Eventually will be made compliant, but does not comply now.
___ Somewhat compliant (%), and no expectation of full compliance.
___ Partially compliant (%), with progress toward full compliance.
___ Fully compliant.


Equivalent Facilitation:


People with disabilities [ ] are [ ] are not provided substantially equivalent or greater access to and use of items provided through use of
designs or technologies other than those prescribed in 36 facilitation CFR Part 1194.  If equivalent, explain which features or components use
equivalent and how it provides substantially equivalent or greater access.

The contractor shall indicate, for each line item in the schedule, whether each product or service is compliant or noncompliant with the
accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194. Further, the proposal must indicate where full details of compliance can be found  (e.g., vendor’s
website or other exact location).

K. 6  52.223-13 Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting  AUG 2003

      (a) Executive Order 13148, of April 21, 2000, Greening the Government through Leadership in Environmental Management, requires submission
      of this certification as a prerequisite for contract award.


      (b) By signing this offer, the offeror certifies that -


           (1) As the owner or operator of facilities that will be used in the performance of this contract that are subject to the filing and
           reporting requirements described in section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (42 U.S.C.
           11023) and section 6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act  of 1990 (PPA) (42 U.S.C. 13106), the offeror will file and continue to file
           for such facilities for the life of the contract the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form (Form R) as described in sections 313(a)
           and (g) of EPCRA and section 6607 of PPA; or


           (2) None of its owned or operated facilities to be used in the performance of this contract is subject to the Form R filing and
           reporting requirements because each such facility is exempt for at least one of the following reasons: [Check each block that is
           applicable.]

[ ] (i) The facility does not manufacture, process, or otherwise use any toxic chemicals listed in 40 CFR 372.65;

[ ] (ii) The facility does not have 10 or more full-time employees as specified in section 313(b)(1)(A) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(b)(1)(A);

[ ] (iii) The facility does not meet the reporting thresholds of toxic chemicals established under section 313(f) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(f)
(including the alternate thresholds at 40 CFR 372.27, provided an appropriate certification form has been filed with EPA);

[ ] (iv) The facility does not fall within the following Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes or their corresponding North American
Industry Classification System sectors:


                       (A) Major group code 10 (except 1011, 1081, and 1094.


                       (B) Major group code 12 (except 1241).


                       (C) Major group codes 20 through 39.


                       (D) Industry code 4911, 4931, or 4939 (limited to facilities that combust coal and/or oil for the purpose of generating
                       power for distribution in commerce).


                       (E) Industry code 4953 (limited to facilities regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Subtitle C (42
                       U.S.C. 6921, et seq.), 5169, 5171, or 7389 (limited to facilities primarily engaged in solvent recovery services on a
                       contract or fee basis); or

[ ] (v) The facility is not located in the United States or its outlying areas.




K.7  52.219-1  Small Business Program Representations MAY 2004 Alternate I APR 2002

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611.
(2) The small business size standard is $7 million.
(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but
which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
(b) Representations.
(1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( )  is, ( )  is not a small business concern.
(2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents,
for general statistical purposes, that it ( )  is, ( )  is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
(3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents
as part of its offer that it ( )  is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern.
(4) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents
as part of its offer that it ( )  is, ( )  is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
(5) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(4) of this provision.] The
offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( )  is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
(6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents,
as part of its offer, that—
(i) It ( )  is, ( )  is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small
Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone
employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and
(ii) It ( )  is, ( )  is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in
paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone
representation.
(7) [Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.] The offeror shall check the category in
which its ownership falls:
_____ Black American.
_____ Hispanic American.
_____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians).
_____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos,
Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati,
Tuvalu, or Nauru).
_____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives
Islands, or Nepal).
_____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.
(c) Definitions. As used in this provision—
“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
(1) Means a small business concern—
(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less
than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-
disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
(2) “Service-disabled veteran” means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in
38 U.S.C. 101(16).
“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size
standard in paragraph (a) of this provision.
“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of
which is owned by one or more women; and
(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
(d) Notice.
(1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this
solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished.
(2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm’s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small
business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15
of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program
eligibility, shall—
(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both;
(ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and
(iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act.

                                          SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

L.1 NOTE:  Please be aware that the security procedures in the Headquarters Buildings prohibit individuals from delivering material directly to
offices. Individuals visiting the Headquarters Buildings must report to the guard station at the east entrance [farthest from the Metro
station]. All materials left there will be examined and x-rayed before being delivered to room E66-206 through the normal internal mail delivery
procedures. As this could take several days, offerors must make allowances to assure that offers arrive in Room E66-310 on time.

If so requested, the guard will call the Acquisition Office (x64232) to have someone come down and accept the material once it has been
examined. Offers must be received and date/time stamped in Room E66-206 by the prescribed date and time to be considered timely, not just
delivered to the guard station, the mailroom or loading dock. While we will do our best to accommodate such requests, FHWA is not responsible if
someone is not immediately available to pick up your proposal when called, or there are delays in clearing the materials.

Further, please be advised that all of our mail (items handled by the US Postal Service) is sent to another location for scanning and
irradiation prior to delivery to this building. This process can take several days, so even if you mail us something from across the street, it
may be a week before it actually arrives in our office. FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc. do have direct access to the building and offices.
Please keep these factors in mind as you determine the best means to deliver your proposal so as to ensure delivery in Room E66-206 by no later
than 4:00 PM eastern standard time on July 20, 2009.

To assist in expediting delivery and ensure proper handling, the outermost envelope or package [this includes FedEx boxes] containing your
proposal should be prominently marked as follows:

Proposal in response to RFP DTFH61-09-R-00030
To Be Opened By Authorized Government Acquisition Personnel Only

L.2 Notice to Offerors

The offerors response must demonstrate their understanding of this procurement and capability for high quality performance in a concise,
logical, manner and should not contain superfluous material that is not directly related to this procurement. Contractors must above all show
that, if selected for award, they will be able to provide high quality.  The technical proposals shall not exceed 25 pages and shall include a
brief well written Executive Summary covering the technical and cost parts of the proposal. Any material in excess of 25 pages will not be read
or evaluated.

The pricing proposal, staff resumes, subcontractor information, covers, table of contents, letters of commitment, the Executive Summary and the
past performance material is in addition to the page limits for technical presentations.

Company, University, or Transportation Center descriptive brochures may be included and are not part of the 25-page limitation. You may wish to
refer us to a company/organization website for additional information rather than take up pages unnecessarily.

Present your proposal in a logical manner readily tied to the requirements herein. Each topic area is to be treated separately as they will be
evaluated individually. Identify and explain any exceptions you are taking to the proposed contract requirements.

The offeror shall identify those who they intend to utilize in key positions in performance of any Task Orders issued. These include staff,
consultants, or subcontractors. Resumes of all proposed key personnel are required, and may not exceed 3 pages for each person proposed.  You
must indicate educational background, recent relevant experience, specific or technical accomplishments, and a listing of relevant publications.
State his or her proposed duties, and the areas for which he or she will be responsible. The work to be performed requires seasoned professional
expertise, and sophisticated engineering and technical data gathering and analysis capability.

For all personnel who are not currently members of the offeror’s staff, an original letter of commitment and agreement to serve as planned is
required to be submitted with your proposal. The letter must cite this solicitation number. These same requirements apply when proposing key
personnel for a Task Order, with the letter citing the proposed Task Order number. A resume alone does not meet this requirement.

Describe your organization’s technical capabilities to perform the kinds of work described under each topic area for which you wish to be
awarded a contract. Clarity and completeness are of the utmost importance in the proposal. With the exceptions of the responsibility
determination and the past performance evaluations, only material contained within the proposal will be considered in the source evaluation and
selection process. Therefore, be sure to include everything you want to be evaluated. Even if we know you and/or members of your staff, we will
only consider what is contained within the proposal.

Offerors are allowed 6 additional pages for the Executive Summary covering the organization, capabilities, experience and management structure.
Address your management of the contract and each Task Order. Explain your methods for performing and managing multiple Task Orders. Address how
you would staff multiple Tasks, multiple courses at the same time, writing and teaching at the same time, and how you would replace key
personnel if necessary, so as not to delay or degrade performance even when faced with a last minute loss of an individual. Outline your
methodology for selecting and managing subcontractors and consultants if you plan to utilize them. Provide the minimum lead-time you would
require to commence work after receipt of a Task Order.

This Request for Proposals is written in the Uniform Contract Format described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) section 15.204-1.
Offerors are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the Uniform Contract Format. This will facilitate your understanding of the terms and
conditions of this solicitation, these instructions and the source selection process. It is very important that you address each evaluation
factor and subfactor shown in Section M below.

L.3 QUESTIONS: Questions regarding this solicitation must be submitted in writing sufficiently in advance of the deadline for receipt of offers
to allow research and dissemination of the answers to all parties in a timely manner. Do not expect direct responses. All Q&A will be posted on
FedBizOpps. Send questions via e-mail [only – calls will not be answered] to: Joseph.Fusari@.dot.gov. Please show the RFP number in the subject
line.

L.4 ELECTRONIC DISSEMINATION OF RFP DOCUMENTS: This RFP and its forms and attachments are being transmitted electronically. Offerors are
reminded that if you download copies of this or any other solicitation you will NOT automatically receive amendments to those solicitations. It
is your responsibility to check back frequently to the download source to see if any amendments or notices have been issued. All amendments will
be posted to, and are downloadable from, the FedBizOpps website. ( FedBizOpps.gov)

L.5 PROCUREMENT INTEGRITY ACT REQUIREMENTS: Your attention is directed to the provision 52.215-1(e) and FAR 3.104-5 for a discussion on marking
and protecting proposal information. Offerors should put the following notice on the top of each copy of its proposal:

      This proposal shall be used and disclosed for evaluation purposes only, and a
      copy of this Government notice shall be applied to any reproduction or abstract
      thereof. Any authorized restrictive notices that the submitter places on this proposal shall also be strictly complied with. Disclosure of
      this proposal outside the Government for evaluation purposes shall be made only to the extent authorized by, and in accordance with, law.

L.6 AWARD ON INITIAL OFFERS: As stated in provision 52.215-1, the government expects to award after review of the initial proposals without
discussions. Therefore, your initial offer should contain your best terms from a price and technical standpoint.

 Proposals shall be submitted on 8 1/2 by 11-inch paper, except foldouts used for charts, tables, appendices or diagrams, which shall not exceed
11 by 17 inches. A page is defined as one side of a piece of paper.  A piece of paper with printing on both sides is considered 2 pages.
Margins (excluding headers and footers) shall be no Less than 1 inch on both sides, top and bottom of the page. Regular text print type shall
not be less than 10 points or more than 12 characters per inch and shall not exceed 6 lines to the vertical inch. All Offerors submitting a
proposal are required to conform to the instructions and rules of this Section.

The offeror must state that they agree to all terms and conditions of the model contract of this solicitation, which consists of the RFP
Sections A through K, including all documents, exhibits, and all other attachments that are incorporated therein by reference and made a part
thereof, or provide an explanation for any exceptions.

L.7 52.204-6     Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number.     JUN 1999
L.8 52.215-1     Instructions to Offerors--Competitive Acquisition.     FEB 2000
L.9 52.216-27   Single or Multiple Awards.     OCT 1995

L.10cing Data.   |L.10 The following skills/disciplines and/or expertise are believed to be necessary for the successful completion of this
project, although every discipline may not be applicable to each and every task order, and the offeror is free to utilize any discipline it
chooses to successfully perform the contract.

    • Senior level transportation/simulation modelers
    • Mid level transportation/simulation modelers
    • Junior level transportation/simulation modelers
    • Senior GIS Specialist
    • Mid level GIS Specialist
    • Junior level GIS Specialist
    • Senior level transportation planner
    • Mid level transportation planner
    • Junior level transportation planner
    • Support Personnel

Include in your cost proposal:

1.  The loaded hourly rate for each employee or class of employee anticipated to work under task orders to be issued under this contract.
Indicate your annual inflation rate to be applied.

2.  State whether any additional direct labor (new hires) will be required during the performance period of this acquisition.  If so, state the
labor categories and estimated number required.

3.  If subcontractors and/or individual consultants will be used in carrying out the requirement of this project, the following minimum
information concerning the subcontractor shall be furnished:

      a. The hourly/daily rate of any proposed consultant and/or subcontract employee.

      b. A statement from the offeror that the hour/daily rate proposed by the subcontractor or consultant has been reviewed and determined to be
      fair and reasonable.

5.  Clearly state any exceptions to the terms in this solicitation, or any terms or conditions attached to your offer, and thoroughly explain
your position/rationale.

L.11 52.216-1 Type of Contract. APR 1984

The Government contemplates award of multiple Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity, Task Order contracts resulting from this solicitation.
Fixed price task orders will be awarded following the procedures outlined in Section G above. The Government intends to make multiple ID/IQ
awards each with a minimum value of $50,000 and a maximum value of $10,000,000.

L.12 52.233-2 Service of Protest.  AUG 1996

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any
protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by
obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Mr. Frank Waltos, HAAM 10, Room E66-326, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE, Washington, DC
20590.

(b) A copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.


L.13 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference  FEB 1998


This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include
blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions,
the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the
full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at these addresses:
      http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60/ or http://www.arnet.gov/far/.

L.14  NOTE:  Facsimile proposals will not be considered for this solicitation.


L.15  Communications Prior to Contract Award


Offerors shall direct all communications to the attention of the Contracting Officer cited on the face page of this RFP. Communications with
other officials may compromise the competitiveness of this acquisition, and result in the disqualification of the offeror and/or cancellation of
the solicitation.

There are frequently issues that require contact with the offeror. Thus, it is important that you provide a point of contact (POC) together with
their e-mail address.  More than one may be provided.

POC:______________________________  E-mail:________________________


L.16  Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Central Contractor Registration


Any contracts resulting from this solicitation will contain FAR clause 52.232-33, “Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Central Contractor
Registration.” All contractors receiving payments under FHWA contracts, purchase orders, delivery orders, or other contractual vehicles must be
registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The CCR is a Department of Defense web-based repository of contractor
information. The Electronic Funds Transfer information in the CCR must be accurate in order for contractors’ invoices or contract financing
requests to be considered proper invoices for the purpose of prompt payment under DoT contracts.

Interested offerors should read and understand the requirements of FAR 52.223-33. The successful offerors must register in the CCR before an
award can be made, and must maintain current, updated information in the CCR throughout the performance period of the contract. Offerors can
register in CCR at anytime, and are encouraged to do so immediately.

Offerors may register in the CCR database and obtain additional information at http://www.ccr.gov, or by calling 1.888.227.2423. The contractor
is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR, and for any liability resulting from the DOT’s reliance on
inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the contractor must confirm on an annual
basis that its information in the database is accurate and complete.


L.17 Authorized Official and Submission of Proposal


The original proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization and must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the
terms and conditions of this RFP. Your proposal shall be submitted in the number of copies, to the address and marked as indicated in Block 9,
page 1. Proposals shall be reproduced on letter-sized paper, and legible in all required copies.

In addition to the 7 paper copies required (an original plus 6 copies), each offeror must include a copy of their proposal on CD identical to
the paper copy in Word and/or Excel format. Each proposal should be within a single binder containing the entire proposal (pricing and
technical).

L.18 Past Performance Evaluation

By past performance, the Government means the offeror’s record of conforming to specifications and to standards of good workmanship, forecasting
and controlling costs; and adherence to contract schedules, including the administrative aspects of performance. The offeror’s reputation for
reasonable and cooperative behavior and their commitment to customer satisfaction will be assessed, along with their business like concern for
the interest of their customer.

The lack of a performance record may result in an unknown performance risk assessment, which will neither be used to the advantage or
disadvantage of the offeror.
The Government will evaluate the quality of the offeror’s past performance based on information obtained from references provided by the
offeror, as well as other relevant past performance information obtained from other sources known to the Government.

Evaluation of past performance will be a subjective assessment based on a consideration of relevant facts and circumstances. It will not be
based on absolute standards of acceptable performance. The Government is seeking to determine whether the offeror consistently has demonstrated
a commitment to customer satisfaction and timely delivery of quality services at fair and reasonable prices.

Offerors with previous experience in the topics they are proposing on must list and summarize their performance on similar or related contracts
completed within the last three years, as well as those currently in process.

Provide your last three relevant contracts in terms of size and scope (but not more than three years old) with FHWA as well as other
organizations both commercial and governmental. You may submit more than three if necessary to properly cover specialized areas of performance
or because of the broad scope of the work. Sending in more than three that are all for the same type of work is unnecessary and discouraged. The
offeror should also submit past performance information on proposed major subcontractors. Provide the following supplemental information (not to
exceed two pages per reference):

    o The name and address of the organization for which the services were performed; the name and current telephone number of the responsible
      technical representative of the organization; the contract number; the type of contract; and a brief description of the services provided,
      including the length of performance and the total dollar amount.

    o In addition, explain how the reference applies to this solicitation’s Statement of Work. FHWA may use this information to contact
      representatives to obtain information regarding your performance.


    o Briefly explain how well you met the contract quality and schedule requirements.


    o List any contract under which you received either a cure notice or show cause letter, or that was terminated for any reason within the past
      3 years. Briefly explain the circumstances in each such instance.

Offerors are responsible to have at least three completed Past Performance Questionnaires submitted with the original proposal (see Section J).
Questionnaires shall be in separate envelopes, sealed by the reference for confidentiality. [Only one copy need be submitted with the original
proposal]

The Government may use random sampling from the references provided, and may also use any other past performance information obtained by the
Government.


The contracting officer will also consider such performance information along with other factors in determining whether the offeror is
considered responsible, as defined in FAR 9.101.

L.19  Until a formal notice of award is issued, signed by a contracting officer, no communication by the Government either written or oral,
shall be binding or in any way interpreted as a promise that an award will be made.


L.20 Small Business Subcontracting Plan

As prescribed by FAR Subpart 19.704 and its implementing clause 52.219-9, since the total contract price is expected to exceed $550,000,
offerors, other than small businesses, shall include a statement in its offer relative to subcontracting opportunities under the proposed
contract.  The offeror shall state that there will be subcontracting, or that the offeror has determined that all work will be done in-house. If
there will be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit with its proposal, a subcontracting plan as prescribed in FAR 52.219-9.  If
it is determined there will not be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit a statement of circumstances supporting this
determination.

All subcontracting plans and statements supporting the absences of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the Contracting Officer
and the FHWA Small Business Specialist. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable subcontracting plan or a statement supporting the absence
of subcontracting opportunities shall render the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. The subcontracting plan will become part of the
contract.



L.21

Offerors are not required to propose to all task areas and may limit their proposal to selected task areas based on their
strengths/capabilities; however, the Government places a greater value on proposals that provide coverage to a greater number of task areas than
on proposals that provide coverage on only a few task areas. 


                                                     SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD


M.1 EVALUATION CRITERIA

Proposals will be carefully evaluated on the following technical criteria based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective contractor
in relation to the needs of the project set forth in Sections B and C above. Each proposal must document the feasibility of its plan to
successfully achieve the objectives of the RFP. Offerors must submit information sufficient to permit a comprehensive evaluation of their
proposals based on the detailed criteria listed below:


      Task area A (200 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (100 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results.  (40 Points)
            b. Academic credentials, professional experience, and technical competence to respond to objectives, needs and potential problems.
            (30 Points)
           c. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA. What contingency plans are in place to
           replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (30 Points)


      2.  Past Performance (40 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience and examples in developing, deploying, and delivering improved and/or new tools, techniques,
           and procedures to support congestion.  (15 Points)             
           b. Demonstrated successful ability to provide technical assistance with full quality assurance and appropriate fact-checking, with a
           minimum of supervision, and in a sometimes politically charge environment.  (10 Points)
           c. Demonstrated successful information collection and analysis. (5 Points)
           d. Demonstrated successful relationship building with various level of government and non-government organizations (10 Points)
 
      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (60 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (60
           Points)

      Task area B (50 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (20 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results. (15 Points)           
                                                
           b. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  What contingency plans are in place to
            replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (5 Points)   


      2.  Past Performance (10 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience in identifying and developing tools and analytical needs for improving safety.  (10 Points)
                                                               
 
      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (20 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (20
           Points)

      Task area C (50 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (20 Points)
             a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical needs
           assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results. (15 Points)           
                                                
           b. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  What contingency plans are in place to
            replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (5 Points)   


      2.  Past Performance (10 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience in identifying and developing tools and analytical needs for improving security.  (10 Points)
                                                                    
      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (20 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (20
           Points)

      Task area D (75 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (40 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results.  (20 Points)           
           b. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  What contingency plans are in place to
           replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (20 Points)   


      2.  Past Performance (10 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience in identifying and developing tools and analytical needs for improving freight planning.  (10
           Points)
 
      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (25 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (25
           Points)

      Task area E (200 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (100 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results.  (40 Points)
            b. Academic credentials, professional experience, and technical competence to deliver meaningful, successful training, and accurately
            respond to in-depth technical questions.  (30 Points)
           c. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  (30 Points)


      2.  Past Performance (40 Points)


           a. Demonstrated successful experience in developing, deploying, and delivering improved and/or new tools, techniques, and procedures
           to support state, metropolitan, rural, and tribal planning capacity building. (15 Points)             
           b. Demonstrated successful ability to provide technical assistance with full quality assurance and appropriate fact-checking, with a
           minimum of supervision, and in a sometimes politically charge environment.  (10 Points)
           c. Demonstrated successful information collection and analysis. (5 Points)
           d. Demonstrated successful relationship building with various level of government and non-government organizations (10 Points)
 
      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (60 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (60
           Points)


      Task area F (100 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (40 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results. (20 Points)           
           b. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  What contingency plans are in place to
            replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (20 Points)   


      2.  Past Performance (35 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience in identifying and developing tools and analytical needs to support national/international
           planning.  (10 Points)
           b. Demonstrated successful ability to provide technical assistance with full quality assurance and appropriate fact-checking, with a
           minimum of supervision, and in a sometimes politically charge environment.  (10 Points)
           c. Demonstrated successful information collection and analysis. (5 Points)
           d. Demonstrated successful relationship building with various level of government and non-government organizations (10 Points)


      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (25 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (25
           Points)

      Task area G (100 Points)


      1. Personnel/Staffing (40 Points)
                  a. Spectrum of academic professional experience and technical competence of the proposed staff to conduct in-depth technical
           needs assessments and a demonstrated ability to coordinate a team effort and produce quality timely results.  (20 Points)           
           b. An adequate number of highly qualified personnel available to meet the needs of the FHWA.  What contingency plans are in place to
            replace key personnel over the life of the contract without any adverse impact on performance?  (20 Points)   


      2.  Past Performance (35 Points)
           a. Demonstrated successful experience in identifying and developing tools and analytical needs to support planning and environment. 
           (10 Points)
           b. Demonstrated successful ability to provide technical assistance with full quality assurance and appropriate fact-checking, with a
           minimum of supervision, and in a sometimes politically charge environment.  (10 Points)
           c. Demonstrated successful information collection and analysis. (5 Points)
           d. Demonstrated successful relationship building with various level of government and non-government organizations (10 Points)


      3. Understanding and Technical Approach (25 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (25
           Points)

      Task area H (25 Points)
 
      1. Understanding and Technical Approach (25 Points)
           a. Contract objectives, needs, and potential problems are understood.  Technical approach is sound, feasible, and achievable.   (25
           Points)


 Evaluation Scale
   | | |Outstanding |Excellent |Good |Fair |Poor |Unsatisfactory | |200 points |200 |160 |120 |80 |40 |0 | | | | | | | | | |100 points |100 |80
|60 |40 |20 |0 | | | | | | | | | |75 points |75 |50 |35 |20 |5 |0 | | | | | | | | | |60 points |60 |48 |36 |24 |12 |0 | | | | | | | | | |50
 points |50 |40 |30 |20 |10 |0 | | | | | | | | | |40 points |40 |32 |24 |16 |8 |0 | | | | | | | | | |35 points |35 |28 |21 |14 |7 |0 | | | | | |
| | | |30 points |30 |24 |18 |12 |6 |0 | | | | | | | | | |25 points |25 |20 |15 |10 |5 |0 | | | | | | | | | |20 points  |20 |16 |12 |8 |4 |0 | |
| | | | | | | |15 points  |15 |12 |9 |6 |3 |0 | | | | | | | | | |10 points |10 |8 |6 |4 |2 |0 | | | | | | | | | |5 points  |5 |4 |3 |2 |1 |0 | |
Outstanding - Very comprehensive, in-depth, clear response. Proposal consistently meeting this standard with no omissions. Consistently high
      quality performance can be expected.
Excellent - Extensive, detailed response to all requirements similar to outstanding in quality, but with minor areas of unevenness or
      spottiness. High quality performance is likely but not assured due to minor omissions or areas where less than excellent performance might
      be expected.
Good - No deficiencies in the response. Better than acceptable performance can be expected, but in some significant areas, there is an
      unevenness or spottiness that might impact on performance.
Fair - The response generally meets requirements but there is no expectation of better than acceptable performance. Deficiencies are confined to
      areas with minor impact on performance and can be corrected during negotiation without major revision to the proposal.
Poor - The response fails to meet one or more requirements. Deficiencies exist in significant areas but can be corrected during negotiations
      without major revision to the proposal or serious deficiencies exist in areas with minor impact.
Unsatisfactory - Serious deficiencies exist in significant areas. The proposal cannot be expected to meet the stated requirements without major
      revisions. The proposal only indicates a willingness to perform in accordance with the requirements document without specifying how or
      demonstrating the capability to do so. Only vague indications of the required capability are present.


M.2 HUBZONE PARTICIPATION FACTOR


Small Business offerors located within underutilized business zones; called “HUBZones” which are qualified HubZone Small Business Concerns will
be evaluated in accordance with FAR clause 52.219-4. Qualified HUBZone firms are identified in the Small Business Administration’s website at:
http://www.sba.gov/hubzone.

M.3 Basis for Award
In addition to the criteria listed above, price will be considered in the award decision. Price proposals will be analyzed to assess realism and
probable cost to the Government. The proposals will be analyzed to assess their reasonableness. This means that the prices in an offeror’s
proposal are realistic for the work to be performed, reflect a clear understanding of the requirements, and are consistent with the various
elements of the offeror’s technical proposal.

The Government intends to make multiple awards with a minimum value of $50,000 and a maximum value of $10,000,000.

The Government will accept the offers that are considered the best value to the Government. A best value analysis will be performed taking into
consideration the results of the technical evaluation, cost and past performance analysis, and the perceived ability to perform timely, high
quality, consistently reliable support services as provided herein.

In the determination of Best Value, the relative weight given to all evaluation factors other than price, when combined, is more important than
price. However, offerors should note that as technical scores approach being essentially equivalent, cost would become more important in the
selection decision.

M.4 52.216.27  Single or Multiple Awards. OCT 1995

The Government may elect to award a single ID/IQ contract or to award multiple ID/IQ contracts for the same or similar supplies or services to
two or more sources under this solicitation.



-----------------------
[1] Sensitive Information is proprietary data or other information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss or misuse could
adversely affect national interest, conduct of Federal programs, or privacy of individuals specified in the Privacy Act, but has not been
specifically authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy under an Executive Order or Act of Congress.


Past Performance Questionnaire

To be completed by the reference and returned to the offeror in a sealed envelope for submission to the Government with their offer.

Offeror’s Name:________________________________________________

Solicitation:  DTFH61-09-R-00030 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING

Reference’s Name: ______________________________________________

Person/Point of Contact:  ____________________________

Telephone:  ________________E-Mail:  ______________________________

Please rate the offeror in each of the following areas.  Note there is room for comments where you deem favorable or negative remarks would be
helpful to our evaluation.
                                        Low        High
|1.  Quality of Performance:                                           | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4   | 5    |


    This area deals with compliance with contract requirements, use of appropriate staff,
     and technical excellence.




                                        Low        High
|2. Timeliness of Performance:                                         | 1    | 2     | 3   | 4    | 5    |


 This area deals with the contractor’s ability to meet milestones and delivery schedules.  Includes responsiveness to technical direction and
 completion of efforts timely.





                                              Low                     High
|3. Price/Cost Control:                                                | 1     | 2    | 3   | 4    | 5    |


 This area deals with the contractor’s ability to control costs during performance, including appropriate budgetary estimates, accurate
 billings, relationship of proposed, negotiated and actual costs; claims; change order issues.












                                        Low        High
|4.  Customer Satisfaction                                             | 1     | 2     | 3   | 4    | 5    |


 This area deals with the contractor’s commitment to customer satisfaction and their cooperative and reasonable businesslike behavior. This
 includes effective management, responsiveness to contract requirements, honesty and integrity, prompt notification of problems, flexible and
 proactive qualities and effective subcontract selection and management.








General Information: Please provide answers to the following questions.

5. Has the contractor ever been given a cure notice, show cause notice, suspension of progress payments or other letters directing the
correction of a performance problem in the past 3 years? [  ] YES      [  ]  NO   If yes, please explain.





6. Have you terminated this contractor for default within the past 3 years, or are there any pending termination actions?   [  ] YES     [  ]
NO   If yes please explain.






7. Based on the contractor’s overall performance, would you award them another contract?
     [  ]  YES     [  ]  NO     If no, please explain.





8. Have you discussed any adverse past performance problems with the contractor and given them an opportunity to comment? Do you file past
performance information in a database that the Government’s Contracting Officer may search? Please explain.

62/,&,7$7,212))(5$1'$:$5'
&2175$&7180%(5

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)
7<3(2)62/,&,7$7,21 6($/('%,',)%

RATING '$7(,668('

3$*(2)3$*(6

1

49

62/,&,7$7,21180%(5

5(48,6,7,21385&+$6(180%(5

DTFH61-09-R-00030
,668('%< &2'(

$

1(*27,$7('5)3

06/17/2009

6601-90034

$''5(662))(572,IRWKHUWKDQ,WHP

Federal Highway Administration 1200 New Jersey Ave. Washington D.C 20590
127( ,QVHDOHG ELGVROLFLWDWLRQV RIIHU DQG RIIHURU PHDQ ELGDQG ELGGHU 62/,&,7$7,21
 6HDOHGRIIHUVLQRULJLQDODQG

7

FRSLHVIRUIXUQLVKLQJWKHVXSSOLHVRUVHUYLFHVLQWKH6FKHGXOHZLOOEHUHFHLYHGDWWKHSODFHVSHFLILHGLQ,WHPRULI

KDQGFDUULHGLQWKHGHSRVLWRU\ORFDWHGLQ

E66-206

XQWLO

04:00 ORFDOWLPH

07/20/2009

+RXU 'DWH &$87,21/$7(6XEPLVVLRQV0RGLILFDWLRQVDQG:LWKGUDZDOV6HH6HFWLRQ/3URYLVLRQ1RRU$OORIIHUVDUHVXEMHFWWRDOOWHUPVDQGFRQGLWLRQV FRQWDLQHGLQWKLVVROLFLWDWLRQ

)25 ,1)250$7,21 &$//
; 6(& $ % & ' ( ) * +

$1$0(

%7(/(3+21(12&2//(&7&$//6 $5($&2'( 180%(5 (;7

&(0$,/$''5(66

Joseph Fusari
'(6&5,37,21 3$57,7+(6&+('8/(

202
7$%/(2)&217(176 3$*(6 ; 6(& , -

366-4244

Joseph.Fusari@dot.gov
3$*(6

'(6&5,37,21 3$57,,&2175$&7&/$86(6 &2175$&7&/$86(6 /,672)$77$&+0(176 3$57,95(35(6(17$7,216$1',16758&7,216 5(35(6(17$7,216&(57,),&$7,216$1'27+(5 67$7(0(1762)2))(5256 ,16756&21'6$1'127,&(6722))(5256 (9$/8$7,21)$&7256)25$:$5'

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $

62/,&,7$7,21&2175$&7)250 6833/,(6256(59,&(6$1'35,&(6&2676 '(6&5,37,2163(&6:25.67$7(0(17 3$&.$*,1*$1'0$5.,1* ,163(&7,21$1'$&&(37$1&( '(/,9(5,(6253(5)250$1&( &2175$&7$'0,1,675$7,21'$7$ 63(&,$/&2175$&75(48,5(0(176

1 2 2 9 10 11 12 23

$ $ $ $ $

26 30

3$57,,,/,672)'2&80(176(;+,%,76$1'27+(5$77$&+

. / 0

30 35 43

2))(50XVWEHIXOO\FRPSOHWHGE\RIIHURU
127(,WHPGRHVQRWDSSO\LIWKHVROLFLWDWLRQLQFOXGHVWKHSURYLVLRQVDW0LQLPXP%LG$FFHSWDQFH3HULRG  ,QFRPSOLDQFHZLWKWKHDERYHWKHXQGHUVLJQHGDJUHHVLIWKLVRIIHULVDFFHSWHGZLWKLQ FDOHQGDUGD\VFDOHQGDUGD\VXQOHVVDGLIIHUHQW SHULRGLVLQVHUWHGE\WKHRIIHURUIURPWKHGDWHIRUUHFHLSWRIRIIHUVVSHFLILHGDERYHWRIXUQLVKDQ\RUDOOLWHPVXSRQZKLFKSULFHVDUHRIIHUHGDWWKHSULFHVHWRSSRVLWH HDFKLWHPGHOLYHUHGDWWKHGHVLJQDWHGSRLQWVZLWKLQWKHWLPHVSHFLILHGLQWKHVFKHGXOH

 ',6&2817)253520373$<0(17 6HH6HFWLRQ,&ODXVH1R  $&.12:/('*0(172)$0(1' 0(1767KHRIIHURUDFNQRZOHGJHVUHFHLSWRI

&$/(1'$5'$<6 $0(1'0(1712

&$/(1'$5'$<6 '$7(

&$/(1'$5'$<6 $0(1'0(1712

&$/(1'$5'$<6 '$7(

DPHQGPHQWVWRWKH62/,&,7$7,21IRURIIHURUV DQGUHODWHGGRFXPHQWVQXPEHUHGDQG GDWHG &2'( )$&,/,7<

$ 1$0($1' $''5(66 2)2))(5 25 %7(/(3+21(180%(5 $5($&2'( 180%(5 (;7

 1$0($1'7,7/(2)3(5621$87+25,=('726,*12))(5 7\SHRUSULQW

&&+(&.,)5(0,77$1&($''5(66,6 ',))(5(17)520$%29((17(568&+ $''5(66,16&+('8/(
$02817

6,*1$785(

2))(5'$7(

$:$5'7REHFRPSOHWHGE\*RYHUQPHQW
$&&(37('$672,7(06180%(5(' $&&2817,1*$1'$335235,$7,21

$87+25,7<)2586,1*27+(57+$1)8//$1'23(1&203(7,7,21 86&F  $'0,1,67(5('%<,IRWKHUWKDQ,WHP 86&F &2'( 

 68%0,7,192,&(672$''5(66 6+2:1,1FRSLHVXQOHVVRWKHUZLVHVSHFLILHG
3$<0(17:,//%(0$'(%< &2'(

,7(0

1$0(2)&2175$&7,1*2)),&(57\SHRUSULQW

81,7('67$7(62)$0(5,&$ 6LJQDWXUHRI&RQWUDFWLQJ2IILFHU

$:$5''$7(

,03257$17$ZDUGZLOOEHPDGHRQWKLV)RUPRURQ6WDQGDUG)RUPRUE\RWKHUDXWKRUL]HGRIILFLDOZULWWHQQRWLFH $87+25,=(')25/2&$/5(352'8&7,21 3UHYLRXVHGLWLRQLVXQXVDEOH

67$1'$5')2505(9 3UHVFULEHGE\*6$)$5&)5F

