C.1		PURPOSE



The purpose of this task order is to provide the Joint Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Defeat Organization (JIEDDO) Counter-IED Operations Integration Center (COIC) with services to  provide technical advice and assistance in the planning, administration, and oversight of operations performed for the NetCentric Innovation Division (NID). 



C.2		baCkground



The Joint IED Defeat Organization was established as a Deputy Secretary of Defense (DEPSECDEF) initiative to rapidly provide solutions to defeat the Enemy’s IED Campaign and save service members’ lives deployed fighting insurgent networks that employ IEDs as a strategic weapon of choice.  In support of all Combatant Commands (COCOM), the JIEDDO-COIC harnesses, amasses, and fuses information, analysis, technology, interagency collaboration, and training support to enable more precise attacks to defeat violent extremist networks.  The COIC is prepared to provide analytical support and enemy network information to other U.S. Government Organizations, and Coalition partners.



The Net-Centric Innovation Division (NID) is the IT engineering arm of the JIEDDO-COIC.  It performs system engineering and architecture development; develops and maintains software applications and web-based portals; discovers, evaluates, and integrates new technologies; performs information assurance to defend and protect vital JIEDDO-COIC IT infrastructure; builds and maintains analytical tools and modeling and simulation capabilities; performs system integration and testing; provides training; and, performs command and control network architecture and engineering.  



C.3		scope



The Contractor shall provide systems engineering and technical assistance services to support JIEDDO-COIC NID leadership and their management of NID operations, including the oversight of acquisition programs, for the following tasks and desired outcomes.



Task 1 - Provide Program Management:  



Desired Outcome: The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.



Task 2 - provide engineering analysis and applied technology



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the enemy networks that employ IEDs.



Task 3 - PROVIDE  & STRATEGIC ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE



Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail so that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.



Task 4 - PROVIDE ACQUISITION PROGRAM SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the human enemy networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and are delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.



Task 5 - PROVIDE TECHNICAL POINT OF CONTACT (TPOC) AND CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) TECHNICAL SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.



Task 6 - PROVIDE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES



Desired Outcome:  The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the enterprise engineering technical support services provided.



Task 7 - Transition In and Transition Out  



Desired Outcome:  Support of JIEDDO-COIC NID leadership is established in a controlled and deliberate manner as soon as possible after task order award, and the end of task transition is planned and managed.



C.4		TASKS



The following describes the services required for each Task.  The Contractor shall provide high quality products and services in a timely and cost effective manner and shall deliver the Desired Outcomes as described in the Performance Requirements Summary (PRS).



C.4.1		Task 1 – PROVIDE PROJECT Management



Desired Outcome: The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  



The Contractor shall provide all necessary project management support and Contractor personnel resources necessary for the support of this task order.  This includes the management and oversight of all activities performed by Contractor personnel, including subcontractors, to satisfy the requirements identified in this task order.



The Contractor shall provide a task order Project Manager (PM) to serve as the primary interface and point of contact with the FEDSIM Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and JIEDDO-COIC Technical Point of Contact (TPOC).  The Contractor PM shall be responsible for managing and overseeing the activities of all Contractor personnel as well as subcontractor/teaming partner efforts used in the performance of this effort and contained in this task order.  



The Contractor shall institute and maintain management and quality processes and methodologies that ensure that the highest quality performance is obtained within cost and schedule constraints of the task order, including an ANSI/EIA-748 compliant earned value management system that correlates cost and schedule performance with technical progress (See C.4.1.6) when applicable.  Should the Contractor encounter any technical, financial, personnel, or general managerial problems throughout the contract period of performance, the Contractor shall immediately contact the FEDSIM COR and JIEDDO-COIC TPOC.



C.4.1.1	Subtask 1.1 – Accounting For Contract Services



The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) operates and maintains a secure Army data collections site where the contractor shall report ALL contractor manpower (including subcontractor manpower) required for performance of this contract.  The contractor is required to completely fill in all the information in the format using the following web address  (See Section F.3, Deliverable 01). The required information includes:



Contracting Office, Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Representative, Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

Contract number

Beginning and ending dates covered by reporting period

Contractor name, address, phone number, e-mail address, identity of contractor employee entering data

Estimated direct labor hours (including subcontractors)

Estimated direct labor hours paid this reporting period (including subcontractors)

Total payments (including subcontractors)

Predominant Federal Service Code (FSC) reflecting services provided by Contractor (and separate predominant FSC for each subcontractor if different)

Estimated data collection cost

Organizational title associated with the Unique Identification Code (UIC) for the Army Requiring Activity.  (The Army requiring activity is responsible for provided the Contractor with its UIC for the purposes of reporting this information.)

Locations where Contractor and subcontractors perform the work (specified by zip code in the  and nearest city, country, and when in an overseas location, using standardized nomenclature provided on the website)

Presence of deployment or contingency contract language

Number of Contractor and subcontractor employees deployed in theater this reporting period (by country).



As part of its submission, the contractor shall also provide the estimated total cost (if any) incurred to comply with this reporting requirement.  Reporting period will be the period of performance, not to exceed 12 months ending September 30 of each government fiscal year and must be reported by October 31 of each calendar year or at the end of the contract, whichever comes first.  Contractors may use XML data transfer to the database server or fill in the fields on the website.  The XML direct transfer is a format for transferring files from a contractor’s systems to the secure web site without the need for separate data entries for each required data element at the website.   The specific formats for the XML direct transfer may be downloaded from the web.



C.4.1.2	Subtask 1.2 – Coordinate The Kickoff Meeting



The Contractor shall schedule and coordinate a Task Order Kick-Off Meeting within five (5) business days after the award of the task order.  The meeting shall provide the opportunity to discuss technical, management, contractual, and security issues, as well as, travel authorization and reporting procedures.  At a minimum, the attendees shall include key Contractor personnel, representatives from the JIEDDO, other key Government personnel, and the FEDSIM COR.  The Contractor shall provide a Task Order Kick off Agenda (See Section F.3, Deliverable 02) for presentation that will include the following:



Introduction of task order team members and capabilities

Overview of task order scope, schedule, and deliverables

Security requirements/access procedures

Invoice procedures

Points of contact

Other logistics issues

Review of schedule

Additional issues or concerns



The Contractor shall provide a draft copy of the agenda for review and approval by the FEDSIM COR and the JIEDDO TPOC prior to finalizing.  The Government will provide the Contractor with the number of participants for the kick off meeting and the Contractor shall provide sufficient copies of the presentation for all present.



C.4.1.3	Subtask 1.3 –Provide Trip Reports 



The Contractor shall follow JIEDDO-COIC and FEDSIM travel approval procedures.  All travel is to be approved in advance by the TPOC.  The Contractor shall submit Trip Reports (See Section F.3, Deliverable 03) after completion of a trip for all long distance travel.  The Trip Report shall include the following information:



Names of personnel who traveled

Dates of travel

Destination(s)

Purpose of Trip; (be specific – why, purpose, outcome/next recommended actions)

Actual Trip Costs

Approval Authority (Copy of the document authorizing travel by Government official)

Summary of events.  



The Contractor shall reconcile the Trip Reports with each invoice such that they can be matched month by month.  



C.4.1.4	Subtask 1.4 – Provide Contract Monthly Status Report



The Contractor shall deliver a Monthly Status Report (MSR) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 04) by the 10th of each month via electronic mail to the COIC Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and the FEDSIM COR that provides at a minimum the following information:



Work accomplished during the reporting period, including specific discussions of each of the goals and objectives projected for the reporting period in the previous monthly status report.

Travel costs previously projected for the month, actual travel costs for the month, planned travel costs for the following month, and Trip Reports for travel completed during the reporting period.

Total number of standard hours worked, the number of hours worked beyond a forty hour work week, overtime costs for the month, and a copy of the overtime authorization by the TPOC/COR

Cost Performance Reports 

Cost Funds Status Report

Program issues, risks and mitigation plans

Work (goals and objectives) projected for the next reporting period

A personnel roster of individuals required for performance of the task order,  whether each is a Full Time Equivalent (FTE) or a fraction of an FTE, and whether each requires physical access to the COIC facility.

A copy of the monthly invoice



C.4.1.5	Subtask 1.5 – Provide Integrated Program Reviews (IPR)



The Contractor shall provide task order status during JIEDDO-COIC’s monthly Integrated Program Review (IPR) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 05), to the TPOC, COR, and other Government Stakeholders.  The Contractor shall provide briefings to describe specific initiatives, both ongoing and completed, throughout the period of performance and the financial status of the task order.  



C.4.1.6	Subtask 1.6 – Earned Value Management (EVM) Criteria 



Based on the specific requirements, the contractor shall employ an American National Standards Institute (ANSI)/Electronics Industry Alliance (EIA)-748 compliant Earned Value Management System to determine the earned-value of the work being performed and report on the results to the Government.  A copy of the standard is available from Global Engineering Documents (1-800-854-7179).  The contractor shall deliver the Contract Work Breakdown Structure (DI-MGMT-81334C) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 07) at the Task Order Kick-Off Meeting.  The Cost Performance Report (DI-MGMT-81466A) and the Cost Funds Status Report (DI-MGMT-81468) shall be included as part of the Monthly Status Report.



Contractor Integrated Performance Management.  The contractor shall establish, maintain, and use in the performance of this task order, an integrated performance management system.  Central to this integrated system shall be a validated Earned Value Management System (EVMS) in accordance with Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 252.234-7001, DFARS 252.234-7002, and the EVMS guidelines contained in ANSI/EIA-748.  To establish the integrated performance management system, the EVMS shall be linked to and supported by the contractor’s management processes and systems to include the integrated master schedule, contract work breakdown structure (CWBS), change management, material management, procurement, cost estimating, and accounting.  The correlation and integration of these systems and processes shall provide for early indication of cost and schedule problems, and their relation to technical achievement.  (DI-MGMT-81466A) 



Integrated Baseline Reviews (IBRs).  The contractor shall engage jointly with the Government’s TPOC and COR in Integrated Baseline Reviews (IBRs) to evaluate the risks inherent in the contract’s planned performance baseline.  Initially, this shall occur as soon as feasible but not later than six months after task order award, and subsequently following all major changes to the baseline.  Each IBR should verify that the contractor is using a reliable performance measurement baseline, which includes the entire contract scope of work, is consistent with contract schedule requirements, and has adequate resources assigned.  Each IBR should also record any indications that effective Earned Value Management (EVM) is not being used.  IBRs should also be conducted on subcontracts that meet or exceed the EVM application threshold.  The prime contractor shall lead the subcontractor IBRs, with active participation by the Government.  (See DFARS 252.234-7002)



The Government expects the Contractor to employ innovation in its proposed application of EVM techniques to this task order in accordance with best industry practices.  



C.4.1.7	Subtask 1.7 – Participate In Technical Meetings



The Contractor shall participate in technical working groups, interchange meetings, program management reviews, and support technical requirements review meetings throughout the period of performance.  The Contractor shall also develop briefing/presentation materials, reports, and plans, communicate contract status and issues to JIEDDO-COIC and other stakeholders as appropriate.  



C.4.1.8	Subtask 1.8 – Prepare Project Management Plan (PMP)



The Contractor shall prepare and update as needed a Project Management Plan (PMP) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 06) providing the following:



The technical and management approach

Standards followed

Overall work breakdown structure (WBS) and associated responsibilities and partnerships between Government organizations

The Contractor’s quality control plan (QCP) the Contractor’s EVM plan

A Level 3 Contract WBS (DI-MGMT-81334B) and Data Dictionary (DD) for the Task Order.  The Contractor shall use the WBS as the framework for planning, budgeting, and reporting program status, cost, and schedule to the Government.

An Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) for the Task Order.  The contractor shall develop and maintain an Integrated Master Schedule by logically networking detailed task order activities.  The schedule shall contain the planned events and milestones, accomplishments, entrance and exit criteria, and activities from task order award to the completion of the task order.  The contractor shall quantify risks in hours, days, or weeks of delay and provide optimistic, pessimistic, and most likely duration for each IMS activity and event.  The contractor shall integrate the schedule with the JIEDDPP-COIC management platform.  The contractor will deliver the Integrated Master Schedule within 30 days after task order award.  (DI-MGMT-81650) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 08)



C.4.1.9	Subtask 1.9 – Prepare Technical Reports



The Contractor shall prepare Technical Reports (See Section F.3, Deliverable 10) related to issues generated during the performance of the requirements of the task order.  The reports will be reviewed by the TPOC and FEDSIM COR and comments will be provided.  The Contractor shall resolve the comments to the satisfaction of the Government and produce updated technical reports.  The Contractor shall prepare a final technical report at the completion of specific tasks.  



C.4.1.10	Subtask 1.10 – Conduct Project Meetings



The Contractor shall schedule and conduct Task Order-related Meetings IAW with the IMS and the PMP.  



C.4.1.11	Subtask 1.11 – Provide Project Briefings



The Contractor shall provide Project Briefings on technical and management issues related to the requirements of the contract, to JIEDDO-COIC, GSA FEDSIM and others as approved by the TPOC.



C.4.2		Task 2 – provide engineering analysis and applied technology



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit its customers and reach back support teams to enable attack on human enemy networks that employ IEDs.   



C.4.2.1		Provide Independent Technology Research Support



The Contractor shall keep current with evolving technological trends and investigate possible applications to enable the JIEDDO-COIC mission through independent research and experimental development.  Specifically, the Contractor shall:



Monitor the proceedings of the JIEDDO-COIC System Engineering Review Board, the NID/MID Synch Meetings, and other JIEDDO-COIC activities and lessons learned to identify emerging needs for innovative net-centric solutions, and report and monitor all follow-on actions.

Keep abreast of advanced technology, concepts, and trends to discover candidates for use by JIEDDO-COIC and synchronize all activities with JIEDDO-COIC technical outreach efforts. 

Provide research, technical advice and analytical reports, conduct appropriate modeling and simulation efforts, planning, studies, cost and feasibility analyses, decision support and quick response support.  The support products and services provided by the Contractor shall permit JIEDDO-COIC to leverage their expertise to optimize decision support for planning, budgeting and programming issues as well as timely and meaningful inputs to JIEDDO-COIC and national policy issues.  

Conduct continuous market research as part of the technology discovery process.

Present organized analytical assessments to the SERB that identify potential initiatives for JIEDDO-COIC to consider.  The initiatives may improve information management processes, take advantage of technological opportunities, improve the understanding and/or evaluation of complex issues, or improve policy development, decision-making, management, or administration for the Net-Centric Innovation Division’s contribution to the JIEDDO-COIC mission.   

Provide technical advice, feasibility analysis and products necessary for the implementation of approved initiatives, including conclusions and/or recommendations that are supported by data and operational support in strategic and performance planning, including operations and training analysis. 

Research and report the impact of emerging guidance and defense strategic planning on JIEDDO-COIC roles and missions.

Conduct force structure and modernization planning technical analysis.

Develop, review, and comment on inputs to modernization planning and schedules.  

Provide subject matter experts (SME) adept at establishing short and long-range strategic plans, knowledgeable of Department of Defense (DoD) and Component acquisition regulations and statutes and with a proven ability to apply best business practice management principles and techniques. 



C.4.2.2		Provide New Initiatives Support



The Contractor shall identify, design and develop new initiatives that support the forward DoD operating elements in the following areas: improved communications and data exchange capabilities; improved storage capabilities; improved enterprise architectures; enhanced access controls; improved cross domain (Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), SIPRNET and Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications Systems (JWICS)) data exchanges; and the addition of new data sources.  As part of the new initiative effort the Contractor shall perform system engineering and cost benefit analysis for each new capability.  



C.4.2.3		Provide New Technology Discovery, Evaluation, and Insertion Support



The Contractor shall evaluate new technologies and applications within and outside of the intelligence community for applicability to counter-IED analysis, processing, dissemination and collaboration.  This effort may include performing market surveys, evaluating open source literature, attending trade-shows and symposiums and evaluating vendor products.  The Contractor shall report Findings and Recommendations to JIEDDO-COIC and GSA FEDSIM in New Technology Reports (NTR) (See Section F, Deliverable 10).



The Contractor shall evaluate new technologies against the System Requirements that identifies mission gaps and mission needs, architecture enhancements, software tools shortfalls and the “cost” of inserting the technology into the operational JIEDDO-COIC baseline.  Evaluation factors will include the degree of software engineering required, the estimated level of effort to develop interfaces, adapters, and wrappers, and architecture changes required to support the new technology.  The Contractor shall use the results of the evaluation to update the JIEDDO-COIC Roadmap (See Section F, Deliverable 10).



C.4.3		TASK 3 – PROVIDE ENTERPRISE & STRATEGIC ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE



Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.



C.4.3.1		Provide Enterprise Architecture Support



The Contractor shall bridge the gap between evolving technology and practical implementation by defining vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures and crafting the plans to implement.  Specifically, the Contractor shall: 



Apply information and knowledge engineering disciplines to develop and maintain a JIEDDO-COIC enterprise architecture (EA), using the DOD Architecture Framework (DODAF) for Operational and System Architecture Design and Development.  

Validate compliance of system architectures and functional baselines with the EA.  

Validate that capabilities developed by JIEDDO-COIC will be able to provide and accept data, information, materiel, and services to and from other systems, units, and forces and will effectively interoperate with other U.S. Forces and coalition partners.

Validate compliance with specified DOD interoperability standards.

Review all Material Action Requests to ensure that proposed material solutions will conform to the EA, will employ commercial off the shelf (COTS) items or non-development items (NDI) to the maximum extent, and include an assessment of cost effective alternatives.  Where COTS or NDI solutions are not available, proven and mature technology may be acceptable.

Provide technical expertise to assist in collecting, organizing, searching, and selecting appropriate data for the development and preparation of planning, programming, and budgeting documents for innovative net-centric solutions.  

Prepare detailed net-centric innovation plans, funding estimates and schedules to support JIEDDO-COIC fiscal planning and programming activities.  

Support evaluation and planning for current and future operations including strategic planning activities.

Analyze near and long term plans pertaining to modernization, force structure composition and disposition, doctrine, policy, and programming activities.

Participate in symposia, conferences and meetings sponsored by the JIEDDO-COIC 



C.4.3.2		Provide System Architecture Engineering - Architecture & Standards Support



The Contractor shall participate in DoD architecture and standards working groups and provide summaries of issues requiring JIEDDO-COIC attention or decisions.  The Contractor shall apply DoD standards and architecture requirements to the design of all networks, hardware, software and information system processes.  DoD Information Assurance standards, DoD 8500.2 shall apply.  



The Contractor shall maintain the system Interfaces and the overall JIEDDO-COIC architecture in an Architecture Design and Description Document (AD&DD) to document the COIC baseline.  The AD&DD shall be updated to describe major technology insertion changes including the interface design description of systems, hardware configuration items, computer software items, or other systems components. (See Section F, Deliverable 10). 



The Contractor shall conduct a System Design Review (SDR) that reflects each system or major technology insertion to the COIC baseline.  This review is conducted to evaluate the optimization, correlation, completeness, performance metrics, and risks associated with the allocated technical requirements.  This review shall be conducted when the system definition effort has proceeded to the point where system characteristics are defined and the configuration items are identified.  The Contractor shall document the outcome of the SDR in a System Design Document (SDD) (See Section F, Deliverable 10).



C.4.3.3		Provide Software Requirements Support



The Contractor shall provide systems engineering/enterprise engineering, personnel and processes that identify user’s needs, requirements and constraints and then translates the user requirements into new initiatives (how many, when, examples?) that meet DoD architecture standards.  The Contractor shall perform configuration management, data management and provides quality assurance/product assurance for the JIEDDO-COIC Program.  



C.4.3.4		Provide Operational Problem Definition/ User Engagement Support



The Contractor shall engage with DoD users to identify the users' problems and needs for information sharing and advanced collaboration for JIEDDO-COIC.  The Contractor shall analyze the users' needs, requirements and constraints.  The Contractor shall address interfaces, software accreditation, enterprise management, and data standards in support of the DoD user.



The Contractor shall identify the system requirements for the counter IED mission based on mission gaps and mission needs, architecture enhancements, new software tools and new technology.  The Contractor shall capture these requirements in a System Requirements Document (SRD) (See Section F, Deliverable 10).  The SRD shall specify the requirements and the methods to be used to ensure that each requirement has been met.  Performance metrics shall be defined for each requirement.  The defined metrics shall be documented in a Measures of Effectiveness (MOEs) section as part of the SRD document.



The Contractor shall conduct periodic System Requirements Reviews (SRRs) for each new system or major technology insertion.  The SRR shall include an analysis of system requirements.  The objective of the SRR is to ascertain the adequacy of the Contractor’s efforts in defining system requirements.  



C.4.4		TASK 4 – PROVIDE ACQUISITION PROGRAM SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that can enable defeat of the human enemy networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered (cost, performance, schedule) to meet specified operational capabilities.



The Contractor shall assist JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Innovation Division in the acquisition and implementation of material and non-material solutions that can enable defeat of the human enemy networks used to employ IEDs including support to quality control of intelligence analysis.  The Contractor shall provide a range of technical program management functions in accordance and consistent with the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat (JIEDD) Capability Approval and Acquisition Management Process (JCAAMP) Process (JIEDDOI 5000.01).  The Contractor shall prepare documentation for new material and non-material solutions, including performance-based Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) considerations, to be considered by JIEDDO-COIC internal governance processes including the Requirements Review Board (RRB) and the Configuration Control Board (CCB).  In addition, the Contractor will validate that program documentation complies with the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) described in CJCSI 3170.01 and Operation of the Defense Acquisition System described in DODI 5000.02, as appropriate.  The Contractor shall provide strategic and long range planning assistance to the JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Innovation Division as follows:



Information Technology Planning & Implementation 

IT Capital Planning 

Cost Modeling

Economic/Business Case Analysis/Return on Investment

IT Strategic Planning Program Assessment and Studies

Program Performance Metrics and Management



Specifically, the Contractor shall provide the support services described below for Acquisition Program Support.  The Contractor will coordinate with Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) as necessary to certify interoperability and compatibility with existing and future systems.



C.4.4.1		Provide Acqusition Program Support



The Contractor shall assist the JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Innovation Division to deliver needed capabilities within schedule and budget constraints.  Specifically, the Contractor shall:



Provide acquisition and program management support to the JIEDDO-COIC.  

Provide systems engineering and technical direction (see FAR Subpart 9.505-1), provide specifications or work statements (see FAR Subpart 9.505-2), provide evaluation services (see FAR Subpart 9.505-3), and protect source selection and proprietary information (see FAR 2.101 and 3.104).

Analyze adherence to established integrated program management schedules for operational activities that support the JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Division.

Analyze Cost Performance Reports from operational activities that support the JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Division and assess technical reasons for cost and schedule variances from the approved contract baseline.  

Participate in design reviews and the test and evaluation of operational activities that support the JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Division.  

Prepare acquisition technical issues, contribute to technical assessments, analyze logistics requirements, provide independent assessment and analysis of potential solutions and proposals to fill capability needs, and review operational/contingency plans.  

Provide software programs, technical analysis, program management tools, decision support tools and training and education materials, to analyze requirements to support technical customer systems engineering and analysis support.

Contribute to technical working group and interchange meetings, program management reviews, and requirements review meetings.



C.4.5		TASK 5 – PROVIDE TECHNICAL POINT OF CONTACT (TPOC) AND CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) TECHNICAL SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.



The Contractor shall assist JIEDDO-COIC Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and the GSA FEDSIM Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) with technical expertise and analysis to assess whether products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule. Specifically, the Contractor shall technically monitor and provide independent assessments of the following:



Contract Program Management

Task Cost, Schedule, and Performance Management

Metrics measurements, trends, analysis, consequences, and recommendations

Earned Value Management

Status Reporting

Risk Management

Performance Benchmarking/Performance Measurements



Progress of the Technology and Systems Engineering contract task orders which will conduct research and experimental development, provide analytical, technical, and operational assistance, and deliver required capabilities to the JIEDDO-COIC to enable successful execution of its mission.  Specifically, monitor and assess progress of the following:



System Design & Development 

Design Reviews (e.g., FDR, PDR, CDR)

Apportion Requirements to Applications

Capacity Management 

Logical and Physical Design and Development 

Interface Design and Development

Database Design and Development, Database Applications Development, Data Migration and Validation, Data Management, and Source Data Development 

Web/Portal Design and Development

Information Dissemination Management

Custom Application Development

COTS and GOTS Integration

Software/Middleware Development 

Software Engineering 

Reliability and Maintainability Engineering 

Technical Documentation



Integration

Product Baseline Development

System Integration

Integration with other systems

Data Migration and Validation 

Technical Documentation



Testing

Test Planning, Conduct, and Reporting 

Component/Application/Unit Testing

System Integration Testing

Interface Testing

Interoperability Testing

Independent Validation and Verification (V&V) Testing and Support

Operational Testing Support

Automated Testing

Regression Testing

Limit Testing (e.g., maximum and minimum)

Stress Testing

Performance Testing

Problem Reporting and Trend Analysis

Documentation and Training Validation

Integration Test

Security Test

Functionally Test

Vulnerability Test



Global Deployment and Fielding 

Deploy Operational Baseline

Deployment Planning and Management 

Operational Readiness and Disposition

Pilots

Initial Operational Capability (IOC)

Final Operational Capability (FOC)

Operators Manuals

Operating Guidelines 

Change Management 	

Mission-related training including: Operator Training, System Administrator Training, Instructor Training (e.g., train the trainer), and Design and Use of Computer-generated Imaging Training 

On site assistance



Operations and Maintenance 

Network Operations and Maintenance, including: Network and systems administration, Fault/problem detection and resolution, Trend Analysis, Performance Prediction, and Corrective Action, and Installation and configuration 

Applications Operations and Maintenance, including: Problem resolution, Technical assistance, and Minor development

Data Warehouse Operations and Maintenance, including: On call query development, Sorts and reports, and Data backups

Security services including physical security (guard force) and alarms 

Website/Portal Operations and Maintenance, including: Web/Portal Maintenance, Web/Portal Content Maintenance, Web/Portal Management and Quality Control, and Web/portal-related Documentation Support

Telecommunications, Network, and Satellite Systems Operations and Maintenance and Engineering Support, including: Performance monitoring and fault management for  Networks, Servers, Applications, and Databases; and Collection of operational performance statistics, data analysis, identification of potential problems, and recommendation of engineering solutions for these problems

Audio-Visual (AV) Support Services	

E-Mail Services	

Information Assurance including certification and accreditation of systems and applications

Operational Engineering Support

Technical writing to include development and update of  technical and operational documentation

Training development and presentation

Customer Services, including: One-Stop Help Desk Services, Continuous Process Improvement, Technology-on-the-Move Services, and Other Customer Services



Performance-based Integrated Logistics Support (ILS)

Maintenance (preventive, predictive and corrective) Planning (including reliability engineering) 

Supply (Spare part) Acquisition and Support  

Support and Test Equipment and Equipment Support 

Manpower and Personnel 

Training and Training Support 

Technical Data and Publications 

Computer Resources Support 

Facilities 

Packaging, Handling, Storage, and Transportation (PHS&T) 

Design Interface



C.4.6		TASK 6 – PROVIDE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES



Desired Outcome:  The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.



The Contractor shall provide agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services that will enable effective and efficient mission performance.  Specifically, the Contractor shall:



Provide engineering and technical services in the form of advice, assistance, training, or administrative/technical support of training and programs for JIEDDO-COIC Net-Centric Division operations.  

Provide information technology consulting services, such as information technology architecture design and capital programming, and investment control support services; and software services such as implementing a web-based, commercial off-the-shelf software product that is an integral part of a consulting services contract.  

Provide systems engineering services that include determining specifications, developing work statements, addressing interoperability needs, integrating JIEDDO-COIC capabilities, examining design alternatives, conducting functional and engineering analysis, identifying and resolving interface problems, developing test requirements, evaluating test data, assessing performance, and supervising design.  

Provide risk assessments of JIEDDO-COIC operations, including the identification of risk areas, assessment of risk factors, identification of resources necessary to reduce risk, identification and analysis of alternative actions available, identification of the most promising alternatives, and planning for risk reduction implementation. 

C.4.7		TASK 7 - PROVIDE TRANSITION SUPPORT



Desired Outcomes: JIEDDO-COIC IT Infrastructure operations and maintenance steady state operations are resumed in a controlled and deliberate manner as soon as possible after contract award and the end of task transition is planned and managed.



The Contractor shall ensure the smooth and orderly transition to establish SETA support, and shall ensure all knowledge, data, material, and information developed by or provided to the Contractor is transitioned and delivered to the Government by the end of the contract. 



C.4.7.1	Subtask 7.1 - Provide Transition-In Support



The Contractor shall prepare an updated Time-phased Labor Mix (TPLM) and Transition-In Plan (See Section F.3, Deliverable 12) for Government approval.  The TPLM shall identify all personnel and positions that transition in the performance of the task order, when they transfer, and the work the personnel will perform.  The Government will review and approve this TPLM as the initial baseline.  Within one week after Government approval of the baseline TPLM, the Contractor shall ensure that the COIC Personnel Manning Roster (PMR) is updated to reflect this baseline without errors (including false positives and false negatives).  The Contractor shall not invoice and the Government does not intend to certify payment of invoices before personnel are entered in the PMR.  Changes to the PMR must be approved by the COIC Chief, Mission Support Division.  The Contractor will ensure a smooth transition of support services with no degradation in capabilities during transition. 



C.4.5.2	Subtask 5.2 - Provide Transition-Out Support



The Contractor shall develop a Transition-out Plan for (See Section F.3, Deliverable 13) transitioning and delivering all material and information from this task order to the Government.  The plan shall identify all Government Furnished and Contractor Furnished Material (GFM/CFM) as well as information and material developed during the task order that was used in the execution of this task order.  The plan shall be submitted for Government approval.  Upon incorporation of comments and Government acceptance, the Contractor shall follow the plan to transfer all material, information, and rights thereto to the Government.



The Contractor shall facilitate and conduct transition-out activities.  The Contractor shall prepare a final Technical Report documenting the status of all ongoing efforts and projects (See Section F.3, Deliverable 10) and a Smart Book/Turnover Binder containing copies of all plans, policies, procedures, points of contact, and other information directed by the Government (See Section F.3, Deliverable 10). A transition out shall ensure no disruption to vital Government business.  The Contractor shall provide full cooperation to providing necessary operational knowledge to the in-coming Contractor.  Transition out shall include the following types of services:



Project management processes 

Points of contact

Location of technical and project management documentation

Status of ongoing technical initiatives

Appropriate Contractor to Contractor coordination to ensure a seamless transition.

Transition of  key personnel

Identify schedules  and milestones

Identify actions required of the Government.

Establish and maintain effective communication with the incoming Contractor/Government personnel for the period of the transition via weekly status meetings.  



C.4.8		SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS



All EIT products and services shall fully comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, per the 1998 Amendments, 29 U.S.C. 794d, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194.  The Contractor shall identify the technical standards applicable to all EIT products and services provided and state the degree of compliance with the applicable standards.



F.1	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The contractor shall provide services on-site at the JIEDDO-COIC office, with support from offices in the northern Virginia area.  The contractor shall perform the on-site services required under this PBSOW during a normal 40-hour workweek that includes the core hours of 0900 – 1530 hours.  All overtime work must be approved in advance by the JIEDDO-COIC TPOC.



F.2	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance (POP) will be 12 months from date of task order award plus two 12- month options.



F.3	TASK ORDER SCHEDULE AND MILESTONE DATES



The following schedule of milestones will be used by the TPOC and FEDSIM COR to monitor timely progress under this Task Order.  The Contractor shall provide deliverables as identified in the following table.  All deliverables shall be provided to the TPOC and FEDSIM COR using Microsoft Office 2003 or later formats.  Unless otherwise indicated or agreed to all deliverables shall be in Contractor format, as agreed to by the Government, and shall be electronically provided.



The following abbreviations are used in this schedule: 



NLT:  No Later Than

TOA:  Task Order Award

All references to Days:  Government Workdays





JIEDDO-COIC will establish a centralized website/integrated data environment (i.e., Deliverable Library) for collection and retrieval of all non-proprietary data required under this contract.  The Deliverable Library will be accessible by the Contractor and by the JIEDDO-COIC Government-Industry team on the SLAN (Secret) network.  The Contractor shall use this Deliverable Library for posting all non-proprietary Deliverable items and other informational products.  The Contractor shall make the maximum use of existing data and provide maximum multiple use of technical information in developing information that shall be furnished to the Government.  Deliverables shall be compatible with JIEDDO-COIC information systems and delivery schedules shall be coordinated with other JIEDDO-COIC schedules.



F.4	DELIVERABLES MEDIA



The Contractor shall deliver all electronic versions by email and CD-ROM as well as placing in the JIEDDO designated repository.  Identified below are the required electronic formats, whose versions must be compatible with the latest, commonly available version on the market.



Text			Microsoft Word

Spreadsheets		Microsoft Excel

Briefings			Microsoft PowerPoint 

Drawings			Microsoft Visio

Schedules			Microsoft Project 



F.5	PLACE(s) OF DELIVERY



Unclassified deliverables and correspondence shall be delivered to the GSA Contracting Officer (CO) below:



GSA FAS AAS FEDSIM

ATTN:  Michael Chappelle, CO

2100 Crystal Drive

Suite 800

Arlington VA  20406

Telephone: (703) 605-2656

Fax:  (703) 605-9088

Email:  Michael.chappelle@gsa.gov



Copies of all deliverables shall also be delivered to the TPOC and FEDSIM COR at the address below: 



	TBD







NOTE:  Section H of the SETA Contract is applicable to this Task Order and is hereby incorporated by reference.  In addition, the following applies:



H.1	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY/INFORMATION (GFP/GFI) 



All contractor work must be performed on-Government site and in most cases either all or a significant part of the work shall be performed in Sensitive Compartmented Information facilities (SCIFs).  The Government will provide contractor personnel with workstations equipped with telephones, and computers and monitors which are connected to networks that provide access to data required to perform their work.  On-Government site personnel will also have printers and scanners provided for official project use.  Contractor access to this Government furnished computer related equipment and networks is contingent on the individual possessing clearances at the appropriate level.

H.2	KEY PERSONNEL



The contractor shall designate one or more key personnel for this task order.  The contractor shall propose the number and role(s) of key personnel, necessary to provide strong team and project management, technical management, quality control of deliverables and problem resolution capabilities to the contractor’s team of personnel.     



The Government desires that key personnel will be assigned for the duration of the task order to ensure a consistent approacch for the management and execution of task order performance.  Key Personnel may be replaced or removed subject to the  SETA contract, Section H.6.1.1, Special Contract Requirements, Key Personnel Substitution.  



For purposes of proposing key personnel, the contractor shall ensure that:



All Key Personnel have a TS/SCI clearance as of the date of task order proposal.  



Government Coordination:  One of the key personnel shall have the authority to represent the contractor in day-to-day discussions with the Technical Point of Contact at JIEDDO-COIC, concerning the execution of the work and to address evolving needs.  



Project / Team Management:  One of the key personnel shall be responsible for overall task order performance, for formulating / enforcing work standards, assigning contractor schedules, reviewing work discrepancies, supervising contractor personnel and communicating policies, purposes, and goals of the organization to subordinates.  It is highly desirable that the proposed key person (or persons) responsible for project / team management, collectively demonstrate the following experience and qualifications:



Experience managing a performance-based task order under a DoD multiple award contract.  

Possess a Program Management Professional (PMP) certification from the Project Management Institute (PMI), or a Level 3 certificate in Program Management in accordance with the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA). 



Lead Engineer:  One of the key personnel shall serve as the lead technical advisor supporting Task 2 (Provide Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology, Section C.4.2) and Task 3 (Provide Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance).  It is highly desirable that the key person serving as lead engineer shall demonstrate the following experience and qualifications:  



A working knowledge of the DoD System Architecture Framework

A working knowledge of emerging system capabilities in the Government and industry.

Possess professional certification from an industry / Government recognized national systems engineering association.  

Possess a BS degree in engineering from an accredited university    



Lead Acquisition Analyst:  One of the key personnel shall serve as the lead acquisition analyst supporting Task 4 (Provide Acquisition Program Support, Section C.4.4).  The lead acquisition analyst will be the lead technical advisor on the measurement of contract performance metrics and earned value analysis.  It is highly desirable that the key person serving as acquisition analyst shall demonstrate the following experience and qualifications:  



Experience with Government and DoD acquisition support, and working knowledge of acquisition regulations and procedures.

A professional certification in Earned Value Management as practiced under ANSI EIA 748, and Level 2 certification in Program Management in accordance with the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA).



Quality: One or more of the key personnel proposed shall be responsible for the quality of contract deliverables (Section F.3).



H.3	NON-KEY PERSONNEL



The Contractor shall identify the position descriptions and qualifications for Non-key personnel that are planned for performance of the task order.  





SETA Performance Requirements Table



NOTES:

The Offeror shall propose Performance Measures, AQLs, Monitoring Methods, and Incentives/Deterrents as indicated in the PRS.  The Government will evaluate proposed inputs as part of source selection and definitize as part of task order award.

The PRS contains summary information.  The Contractor shall prepare a detailed Service Level Agreement (SLA) to augment the PRS for Government review and acceptance as part of its proposal.

The tables below illustrate the weighting of Desired Outcomes and Performance Measures and the over contributions of each to the contract for the base year and each option year.





A description of the PRS elements is listed below.



Performance Measures:

Performance Measures are the metrics that shall be measured to ensure the Required Services are being performed to achieve the Desired Outcomes.  Performance Measures shall be quantifiable, measurable, and specific to each task, and shall be linked to the desired outcomes of the task and reinforced by incentives and deterrents.  



Weighting (%):

The Government recognizes that not all Desired Outcomes or Performance Measures have equal importance (i.e., weighting).  Weighting shall be on a scale from 0 – 100%, where 100% is most important.  



Acceptable Quality Level (AQL):

The AQL is the quality that the Government will consider as acceptable (e.g., Operational Availability, number of defects, percent conformance). Offerors shall propose AQLs for Performance Measures as indicated in the PRS.  Include assumptions, constraints, and exceptions. 



Monitoring Methods:

Monitoring Methods describe how the Government will determine the degree to which the AQL has been achieved.  Offerors shall propose Monitoring Methods that accurately reflect the status of the Performance Measure and do not place undue burden on the Government.  Offerors shall include:

Surveillance methods (e.g., direct observations, surveys, document review, testing, sampling, etc.)

Formulas or equations (e.g., Ao=Uptime/[Uptime+Downtime])

Timing/schedule aspects (e.g., monthly, quarterly, etc.)

Specific events (e.g., major capability delivery)

Monitoring tools (e.g., unique software, COTS software, etc.).   

Monitoring responsibility (e.g., Government, Contractor, third party, etc.)



Incentives / Deterrents:

Incentives are intended to reward the Contractor for maintaining focus on the Desired Outcomes and going the extra mile.  Conversely, reduced incentives (i.e., Deterrents) are intended to discourage activity that does not directly contribute to achieving the Desired Outcomes.  Incentives/Deterrents do not have to be monetary.   Offerors shall propose the Incentive and/or Deterrents associated with each Performance Measure.  Do not include any costs or pricing information in technical proposals.  





MILESTONE/DELIVERABLE

Deliverable Number

SOW

Reference

PLANNED

COMPLETION DATE/DELIVERY DUE DATE

Project Start (PS)





At TOA

Annual Contractor Manpower Report

01

C.4.1.1

Annually on 31 October

Task Order Kick off Agenda

02

C.4.1.2

3 days before kick-off

Trip Reports  

03

C.4.1.3

3 days after a trip

Monthly Status Report (MSR) including:

Cost Performance Report (DI-MGMT-81466AA)

Cost Funds Status Report (DI-MGMT-8146B)

04

C.4.1.4

15th of the month

Integrated Program Review (IPR)  

05

C.4.1.5

3rd Wednesday of the month

Project Management Plan (PMP) including:

Earned Value Management Plan

06

C.4.1.8

TOA + 30 days

Contract Work Breakdown Structure (DI-MGMT-81334C)

07

C.4.1.6

TOA + 30 days, update as needed

Integrated Master Schedule (DI-MGMT-81650)

08

C.4.1.8

TOA + 30 days, update as needed

Preparation and record documentation for Technical and Project Meetings

09

C.4.1.7

As required

Technical Reports and Briefings

10

C.4.1.9

C.4.2

C.4.3

C.4.4

C.4.5

C.4.6



As required

Updated Time-phased Labor Mix and Transition In Plan (TPLM)

12

C.4.7.1

TOA + 7 days

Transition-out Plan

13

C.4.7.2

TOA + 300 days



CLIN 0001:  Program Management          [Weight: 10%] 

CLIN 0001:  Program Management          [Weight: 10%] 

CLIN 0001:  Program Management          [Weight: 10%] 

CLIN 0001:  Program Management          [Weight: 10%] 

CLIN 0001:  Program Management          [Weight: 10%] 

Desired Outcome:  The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  

Desired Outcome:  The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  

Desired Outcome:  The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  

Desired Outcome:  The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  

Desired Outcome:  The Contractor achieves the Desired Outcomes of this Task Order and delivers highest quality performance within cost and schedule constraints.  

Required Services:  See Section C.4.1, Task 1   Provide Program Management

Required Services:  See Section C.4.1, Task 1   Provide Program Management

Required Services:  See Section C.4.1, Task 1   Provide Program Management

Required Services:  See Section C.4.1, Task 1   Provide Program Management

Required Services:  See Section C.4.1, Task 1   Provide Program Management

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

Cost Performance Index (CPI)

50%

Zero or positive CPI, without degrade in quality. 



The Government will monitor the Cost Performance Index (CPI) at the contract level from monthly EVM reports. 



CPI is the Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP – i.e., Earned Value) divided by the Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP).  This is mathematically expressed as: 



CPI = BCWP/ACWP 



Offeror propose

Incentives & Deterrents

Schedule Performance Index (SPI)

40%

Zero or positive SPI, without degrade in quality. 



The Government will monitor Schedule Performance Index (SPI) at the contract level from monthly EVM reports. 



SPI is the Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP – i.e., Earned Value) divided by the Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS).  This is mathematically expressed as:



SPI = BCWP/BCWS 



Offeror propose

Incentives & Deterrents

Offeror propose one other performance measure

10%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

CLIN 0002: Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology        [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0002: Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology        [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0002: Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology        [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0002: Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology        [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0002: Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology        [Weight: 10%]































Desired Outcome: JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the networks that employ IEDs.   



Desired Outcome: JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the networks that employ IEDs.   



Desired Outcome: JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the networks that employ IEDs.   



Desired Outcome: JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the networks that employ IEDs.   



Desired Outcome: JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit the deployed warfighters and reach back support teams to destroy the networks that employ IEDs.   



Required Services:  See Section C.4.2, Task 2  Provide Engineering Analysis & Applied Technology Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.2, Task 2  Provide Engineering Analysis & Applied Technology Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.2, Task 2  Provide Engineering Analysis & Applied Technology Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.2, Task 2  Provide Engineering Analysis & Applied Technology Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.2, Task 2  Provide Engineering Analysis & Applied Technology Services

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

Relevant Technology Assessments 

80%

50% of technology assessments presented to the SERB (System Engineering Review Board) result in JIEDDO-COIC pursued initiatives.

Weekly SERB meeting agendas are monitored to calculate the number of technology assessments; and the RRB is monitored to calculate the number of assessments approved as COIC initiatives.



Observed QL = # RRB approved initiatives based on SERB presentations by the SETA divided by the # SERB presentations by the SETA 

If  # of SERB presentations>12  and observed QL>.75, then 100% of fee pool.



If # SERB presentations <12 and observed QL >.85, then 80% of fee pool.



If observed QL >.50 and <.75, then 65% of fee pool.



If observed QL <.50, then 0% of fee pool

Offeror propose one other performance measure

20%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

CLIN 0003:  Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0003:  Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0003:  Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0003:  Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0003:  Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance          [Weight: 25%]

Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.

Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.

Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.

Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.

Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.

Required Services:  See Section C.4.3, Task 3. Provide Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.3, Task 3. Provide Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.3, Task 3. Provide Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.3, Task 3. Provide Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance Services

Required Services:  See Section C.4.3, Task 3. Provide Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance Services

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

Competitive alternatives 

80%

Alternative solutions are assessed for 100% of MARs submitted by TSE or Infrastructure contractors concerning information technology  

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Deterrents only

Offeror propose one other performance measure

20%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Deterrents only

CLIN 0004:  Acquisition Program Support          [Weight: 20%]

CLIN 0004:  Acquisition Program Support          [Weight: 20%]

CLIN 0004:  Acquisition Program Support          [Weight: 20%]

CLIN 0004:  Acquisition Program Support          [Weight: 20%]

CLIN 0004:  Acquisition Program Support          [Weight: 20%]

Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.

Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.

Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.

Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.

Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that will defeat the networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered to meet specified operational capabilities.

Required Services:  See Section C.4.4, Task 4  Provide Acquisition Management Support

Required Services:  See Section C.4.4, Task 4  Provide Acquisition Management Support

Required Services:  See Section C.4.4, Task 4  Provide Acquisition Management Support

Required Services:  See Section C.4.4, Task 4  Provide Acquisition Management Support

Required Services:  See Section C.4.4, Task 4  Provide Acquisition Management Support

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

Average Cost Performance Index (CPI) under all TSE Task Orders

50%

Zero or positive CPI, without degrade in quality. 



The Government will monitor the Cost Performance Index (CPI) at the contract level from monthly EVM reports. 



CPI is the Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP – i.e., Earned Value) divided by the Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP).  This is mathematically expressed as: 



CPI = BCWP/ACWP 



Offeror propose

Incentives & Deterrents

Average Schedule Performance Index (SPI)  under all TSE Task Orders

40%

Zero or positive SPI, without degrade in quality. 



The Government will monitor Schedule Performance Index (SPI) at the contract level from monthly EVM reports. 



SPI is the Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP – i.e., Earned Value) divided by the Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS).  This is mathematically expressed as:



SPI = BCWP/BCWS 



Offeror propose

Incentives & Deterrents

Offeror propose one other performance measure

10%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

CLIN 0005:  COR/TPOC Technical Support          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0005:  COR/TPOC Technical Support          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0005:  COR/TPOC Technical Support          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0005:  COR/TPOC Technical Support          [Weight: 25%]

CLIN 0005:  COR/TPOC Technical Support          [Weight: 25%]

Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.  

Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.  

Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.  

Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.  

Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule.  

Required Services:  See Section C.4.52, Task 5  Provide Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Support 

Required Services:  See Section C.4.52, Task 5  Provide Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Support 

Required Services:  See Section C.4.52, Task 5  Provide Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Support 

Required Services:  See Section C.4.52, Task 5  Provide Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Support 

Required Services:  See Section C.4.52, Task 5  Provide Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) and Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Support 

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

TPOC informed on status and risks

75%

TPOC has accurate information on adequacy of deliverables and task order risks when the Monthly Status Reports for all TSE task orders are received.

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Incentives & Deterrents

Offeror propose one other performance measure

25%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

CLIN 0006:  Engineering & Technical Support Services          [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0006:  Engineering & Technical Support Services          [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0006:  Engineering & Technical Support Services          [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0006:  Engineering & Technical Support Services          [Weight: 10%]

CLIN 0006:  Engineering & Technical Support Services          [Weight: 10%]

Desired Outcomes: The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.

Desired Outcomes: The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.

Desired Outcomes: The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.

Desired Outcomes: The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.

Desired Outcomes: The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.

Required Services:  See Section C.4.6, Task 6  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services..

Required Services:  See Section C.4.6, Task 6  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services..

Required Services:  See Section C.4.6, Task 6  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services..

Required Services:  See Section C.4.6, Task 6  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services..

Required Services:  See Section C.4.6, Task 6  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services..

Performance Measures

Weighting (%)

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Monitoring Method

Incentives/Deterrents

Operational Availability of IT Infrastructure

50%

98%

Offeror propose

Offeror propose

Effectiveness of analytical tools

50%

30 % Probability of Kill



Offeror to propose a measurement for C-IED target identification and successful engagement  

Offeror propose

Offeror proposeREQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)



GSC-QF0B-11-32373

Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance (SETA) Contract



in support of:



Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization (JIEDDO)

 (COIC)







Issued to:

Small Business Concerns performing work under NAICS code 541712



Conducted under FAR 15

Issued by:

The Federal Systems Integration and  (FEDSIM)

2100 Crystal Drive

Suite 800

Arlington VA  20406



July 29, 2011

FEDSIM Project Number 10040DEM



B.1	GENERAL DESCRIPTION



This contract is being established under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Parts 15 and 19 as a small business set-aside.  A multiple-award, indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contract is envisioned against which firm fixed priced (FFP) or cost plus task orders will be issued.



The work shall be performed in accordance with all sections of this contract.  



B.2	SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS



The following abbreviations are used in this price schedule:	



NTE:  Not To Exceed

CLIN:  Contract Line Item Number

ODC:  Other Direct Cost



Individual task orders will establish contract types, based upon the nature of the work required (e.g. FFP, CPAF, CPIF, etc.).  The labor categories in this IDIQ contract shall apply to all System Engineering and Technical Assistance  (SETA) task orders.  The task order labor category costs shall not exceed those included in the SETA contract; i.e. the SETA contract labor category costs will serve as ceilings for task order labor category costs.



B.2.1	LABOR



The contract labor categories and descriptions are listed in List of Attachments, Attachment K.  The categories are based upon the JIEDDO-COIC Directed Analysis Support Services contract and the JIEDDO-COIC Operations Support contract..  Each contract will include the contractor’s proposed categories, mapped to the standard set of SETA labor categories in Attachment K.  



The specific fee for labor under the SETA contract will be negotiated at the task order level.  However, for cost plus (e.g. CPAF, CPIF, CPFF) task orders, the Government is establishing a cap of 2 % for base fee to be applied under the SETA contract.



B.2.1.1		CLIN 0001 - Base Period (24 Months)



CLIN 0001a - Year One





CLIN 0001b – Year Two 





B.2.1.2		CLIN 1001 – Option Year 1 (12 Months)





B.2.1.3		CLIN 2001 – Option Year 2 (12 Months)





B.2.1.4		CLIN 3001 – Option Year 3 (12 Months)







B.2.2	TOOLS, TRAVEL, and ODCs



Indirect / material handling rates for Travel, Tools, and ODC costs incurred under SETA task orders shall be in accordance with those proposed in the SETA contract, the contractors’ disclosed cost accounting practices and approved by DCAA .  If no indirect/material handling rate is specified in the contract, no indirect/material handling rate shall be applied to or reimbursed on such costs within SETA task orders.



B.2.2.1		Base Period (24 Months)



Year One 





Year Two 





B.2.2.2		Option Year 1 (12 Months)





B.2.2.3		Option Year 2 (12 Months)





B.2.2.4		Option Year 3 (12 Months)





B.3	CONTRACTOR ACCOUNTING FOR CONTRACT SERVICES 



The costs to be reported are those associated with the reporting requirements specified in C.3.2.  The costs shall be reported at the task order level.





B.4	INCREMENTAL FUNDING



The Government, at its discretion, reserves the right to incrementally fund any fixed price or cost plus task order issued under this IDIQ Contract.  If a task order is incrementally funded, it shall specify the total amount of the task order, the amount obligated, the estimated performance period based on the amount of obligated funds and a statement that the contractor is not required to perform work nor is the Government obligated to reimburse the contractor for work performed in excess of the amount obligated.  All incrementally funded task orders will be funded in accordance with the FAR 52.232-22 “Limitation of Funds.”



B.5	MAXIMUM CONTRACT CEILING AND MINIMUM CONTRACT GUARANTEE



The total value of all task orders for the SETA contract (for all awardees combined) shall not exceed $208,000,000.00 including options. 



The total minimum quantity, guaranteed by the Government, is $25,000 for each awardee. 









C.1	PURPOSE



The purpose of the acquisition is to provide Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance (SETA) support services to the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization (JIEDDO)/Counter-Improvised Explosive Device (C-IED) Operations Intelligence Integration Center (COIC).  The contractor, in close coordination with JIEDDO personnel, shall support the JIEDDO mission with independent research and experimental development, analytical, technical and operational assistance to JIEDDO-COIC without organizational conflict of interest. 



C.2	baCkground



The Joint IED Defeat Organization was established as a Deputy Secretary of Defense (DEPSECDEF) directed initiative with the mission to rapidly provide solutions to defeat the Enemy’s IED Campaign and save deployed service members’ lives  fighting insurgent networks that employ IEDs.  The JIEDDO-COIC was established to innovatively harness and amass information, analyses, and technology to empower the warfighter with the insight needed to Defeat enemy human networks using or facilitating use of this weapon system.  



C.3	scope



The SETA contract is a five-year (2-year base plus three, one-year options), multiple-award, Indefinite Delivery / Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract that includes the following services:



Contract Program Management Support

Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology

Enterprise and Strategic Engineering and Technical Assistance

Acquisition and Intelligence Support

Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) Support

Engineering and Technical Support Services



Task orders will be competed on a Fixed Price or Cost Plus basis (depending upon the perceived risk to the Government) with performance-based incentives as deemed necessary by each individual task order.  This contract is divided into the six Task Areas listed below and detailed in Section 4.   



Task Area 1:  Provide Engineering Analysis and Applied Technology

Task Area 2:  Provide Enterprise & Strategic Engineering & Technical Assistance

Task Area 3:  Provide Acquisition Program Management Support

Task Area 4:  Provide Operations/Intelligence Management Support

Task Area 5:  Provide Support to Technical Point of Contact (TPOC)

Task Area 6:  Provide Engineering and Technical Support Services



C.3.1 		OVERARCHING PROGRAM MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS



The contractor shall provide the requisite program management capabilities to facilitate the work required and enable an effective and productive level of communication with the Government.  This includes the oversight of all activities performed by contractor personnel, including subcontractors, to satisfy the requirements identified in this PBSOW.  The contractor shall identify a Program Manager (PM) by name, who shall provide overarching management, direction, administration, quality assurance, and leadership of all task or delivery orders issued under the contract.  Contract-level Program Management functions shall not be directly billed to the contract.



The contractor shall participate in a Contract Kick-Off Meeting at a location approved by the Government.  The meeting will provide an introduction between the contractor personnel and Government personnel who will be involved with the contract.  The meeting will provide the opportunity to discuss technical, management, and security issues.  The attendees shall include vital contractor and JIEDDO personnel, and the Federal Systems Integration and Management Center (FEDSIM) Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).  There may be additional kickoff meetings required upon award of task orders; the Government will communicate those requirements in individual task orders.  



In addition to kickoff meetings that may be required for individual task orders, the contractor may be expected to submit monthly status reports, prepare project plans, submit trip reports, prepare consent to purchase forms, provide transition out plans, and similar documentation.  The specific project management requirements will also be communicated in individual task orders.



C.3.2		ACCOUNTING FOR CONTRACT SERVICES



The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) operates and maintains a secure Army data collections site where the contractor shall report ALL contractor manpower (including subcontractor manpower) required for performance of task orders under this contract.  The contractor is required to completely fill in all the information in the format using the following web address .  The required information includes:



Contracting Office, Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Representative, Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

Contract number

Beginning and ending dates covered by reporting period

Contractor name, address, phone number, e-mail address, identity of contractor employee entering data

Estimated direct labor hours (including subcontractors)

Estimated direct labor hours paid this reporting period (including subcontractors)

Total payments (including subcontractors)

Predominant Federal Service Code (FSC) reflecting services provided by Contractor (and separate predominant FSC for each subcontractor if different)

Estimated data collection cost

Organizational title associated with the Unique Identification Code (UIC) for the Army Requiring Activity.  (The Army requiring activity is responsible for provided the contractor with its UIC for the purposes of reporting this information.)

Locations where Contractor and subcontractors perform the work (specified by zip code in the United States and nearest city, country, and when in an overseas location, using standardized nomenclature provided on the website)

Presence of deployment or contingency contract language

Number of Contractor and subcontractor employees deployed in theater this reporting period (by country).



As a part of SETA task order proposal submissions, the contractor shall also provide the estimated total cost (if any) incurred to comply with this reporting requirement.  Reporting period will be the period of performance, not to exceed 12 months ending September 30 of each government fiscal year and must be reported by October 31 of each calendar year or at the end of the contract, whichever comes first.  Contractors may use XML data transfer to the database server or fill in the fields on the website.  The XML direct transfer is a format for transferring files from a contractor’s systems to the secure web site without the need for separate data entries for each required data element at the website.   The specific formats for the XML direct transfer may be downloaded from the web.  The contractor shall provide a copy of the contractor Manpower Accounting Input Data to the task order COR upon upload of required information to the Army data collections website.



C.4	TASKS



The following describes the services required for each Task Area.  Specific and detailed information will be provided in individual Task Orders.  



The contractor shall manage this contract, ensuring that the desired outcomes contained in each Task Area and in the Performance Requirements Summary (PRS) for individual Task Orders, are achieved on time, and in a cost effective and cost accountable manner.  If stipulated in a task order, the contractor shall use an ANSI/EIA-748 compliant earned value management system that correlates cost and schedule performance with technical progress.  The contractor shall participate in technical working groups, interchange meetings, Program Management reviews, and support technical requirements review meetings as required by the Government.  The contractor shall also develop briefing/presentation material, reports, and plans as required by each task order and communicate contract status and issues to JIEDDO-COIC and other stakeholders as appropriate.  This material may include, but is not limited to the following:



Task Cost, Schedule, and Performance Management

Metrics measurements, trends, analysis, consequences, and recommendations

Earned Value Management

Status Reporting

Risk Management

Performance Benchmarking/Performance Measurements



C.4.1	Task 1 – provide engineering analysis and applied technology



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC is continuously aware of evolving and exploited technologies and their value to the mission; promising technologies are quickly captured and leveraged to benefit  its customers and reach back support teams to Enable attack on human enemy networks that employ IEDs.   



The contractor shall keep current with evolving technological trends and investigate possible applications to enable the JIEDDO-COIC mission through independent research and experimental development.  Specifically, the contractor shall:



Keep abreast of advanced technology, concepts, and trends to discover candidates for use by JIEDDO-COIC to synchronize JIEDDO-COIC activities with technical outreach efforts. 

Apply experimental and rapid prototyping techniques, technology insertion, modeling and simulation, reverse engineering, performance benchmarking, gap analysis, and other methodologies to exploit, analyze, evaluate, and validate potential applications in support of the JIEDDO-COIC mission.

Provide research, technical advice and analytical reports, conduct appropriate modeling and simulation efforts, planning, studies, cost and feasibility analyses, decision support and quick response support.  The support products and services provided by the contractor shall permit JIEDDO-COIC to leverage their expertise to optimize decision support for planning, budgeting and programming issues as well as timely and meaningful inputs to JIEDDO-COIC and national policy issues.  

Experiment with workflow analysis, process development, and re-engineering to produce new concepts of operations that take advantage of evolving technologies. This may include wargaming, demonstrations, exercise support, and scenario design and execution. 

Conduct continuous market research as part of the technology discovery process.

Provide organized, analytical assessments to understand and/or evaluate complex issues to improve Government policy development, decision-making, management, or administration for the JIEDDO-COIC.   

Provide technical advice, feasibility analysis and products necessary to support informed decision-making by the Government, including conclusions and/or recommendations that are supported by data.  

Develop and maintain databases, models, methodologies, and related software to support analysis, assessment, and evaluation. 

Provide operational support in strategic and performance planning, and operations and training analysis.  

Review lessons learned from contingency operations and the Global War on Terror (GWOT) to ensure continued relevance of JIEDDO-COIC operations.  

Research and report the impact of emerging guidance and defense strategic planning on COIC roles and missions.  

Conduct trend analysis of data compiled in the JIEDDO-COIC to identify and report ongoing operations and training tempo and manpower utilization.  

Develop Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) for delivering information to the warfighter.  

Conduct force structure and modernization planning technical analysis.  

Develop, review, and comment on inputs to modernization planning and schedules.  

Provide subject matter experts (SME) adept at establishing short and long-range strategic plans, knowledgeable of Department of Defense (DoD) and Component acquisition regulations and statutes and with a proven ability to apply best business practice management principle and techniques. 



C.4.2	TASK 2 – PROVIDE ENTERPRISE & STRATEGIC ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE



Desired Outcome:  Vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures are defined in sufficient detail that implementation programs can be established and planning, programming, budgeting, and execution submissions can be defended.



The contractor shall bridge the gap between evolving technology and practical implementation by defining vendor-neutral operational and technical requirements, structures, and architectures and by crafting the plans to assist JIEDO-COIC with IT portfolio management and implementation.  Specifically, the contractor shall: 



Apply information and knowledge engineering disciplines to develop and maintain a JIEDDO-COIC enterprise architecture (EA).

Assess compliance of system architectures and functional baselines with the EA.  

Use the DOD Architecture Framework (DODAF) for Operational and System Architecture Design and Development.  

Ensure that capabilities developed by JIEDDO-COIC will be able to provide and accept data, information, materiel, and services to and from other systems, units, and forces and will effectively interoperate with other U.S. Forces and coalition partners.

Ensure that material solutions will employ commercial off the shelf (COTS) and non-development items (NDI) to the maximum extent.  Where COTS or NDI solutions are not available, proven and mature technology will be used.

Ensure compliance with DOD interoperability standards as identified in task orders.

Apply specialized C-IED experience to analyze and evaluate workflow issues.  Develop recommendations for the Government to improve effectiveness and efficiency of work operations in the COIC.  

Research, collect, and organize information to assist the Government develop and prepare planning and programming documents.    

Provide technical expertise to assist in development and revision of policy, guidance, plans, programs, and processes.  

Participate in symposia, conferences and meetings sponsored by the JIEDDO-COIC 



C.4.3	TASK 3 – PROVIDE ACQUISITION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  Sustainable JIEDDO-COIC material and non-material capabilities, that can enable defeat of the human enemy networks used to deploy IEDs, are produced on schedule and within budget and delivered (cost, performance, schedule) to meet specified operational capabilities.



The contractor shall assist JIEDDO-COIC Program Managers in the acquisition and implementation of material and non-material solutions that will enable defeat of the human enemy networks used to employ IEDs.  The contractor shall support a range of program management functions in accordance and consistent with the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat (JIEDD) Capability Approval and Acquisition Management Process (JCAAMP) process and JIEDDOI 5000.01.  The contractor shall assist the JIEDDO-COIC to ensure that new material and non-material solutions, including performance-based Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) considerations, will follow JIEDDO-COIC internal governance processes including the Requirements Review Board (RRB) and Change Control Board (CCB). In addition, the contractor will ensure programs will assist the JIEDDO-COIC to follow the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) described in CJCSI 3170.01 and Operation of the Defense Acquisition System described in DODI 5000.02, as appropriate.  The contractor shall provide strategic and long range planning assistance to the JIEDDO-COIC Program Manager as follows:



Information Technology Planning & Implementation 

IT Capital Planning 

Cost Modeling

Economic/Business Case Analysis/Return on Investment

IT Strategic Planning Program Assessment and Studies

Program Performance Metrics and Management



The contractor shall provide technical assistance to JIEDDO-COIC program managers to deliver needed capabilities within schedule and budget constraints.  Specifically, the contractor shall:



Provide acquisition and program management technical support to the JIEDDO-COIC.  

Provide systems engineering and technical direction (see FAR Subpart 9.505-1), provide technical assistance for specifications or work statements (see FAR Subpart 9.505-2), provide technical assistance in support of evaluation services (see FAR Subpart 9.505-3), and protect source selection and proprietary information (see FAR 2.101 and 3.104).

Develop and recommend industry best practices to help JIEDDO-COIC identify and manage acquisition costs, including development, procurement, and sustainment costs and program costs through transfer, transition, or termination, consistent with JIEDDOCOIC program plans. 

Establish and maintain an integrated program management schedule for operational activities of the JIEDDO-COIC.  

Prepare independent technical assessments and analyses of potential solutions to fill capability and logistics needs of operational and contingency plans.  Prepare technical acquisition courses of action (e.g., Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)) with recommendations and rationale.

Provide analytic support to the JIEDDO-COIC to develop capabilities for new systems, investigate available technologies, define alternative concepts to meet user needs.  Support  market research of the state-of-the-market using credible technology and manufacturing readiness level estimation methods.  Conduct trade studies of viable alternatives and analyze life cycle costs and benefits.  

Contribute to design reviews and related activities concerning the establishment of new capabilities for the JIEDDO-COIC.  

Provide independent technical assessments of software programs (e.g., program management tools, decision support tools, training tools, analysis tools, models and simulations, etc.) to evaluate ability to support JIEDDO-COIC’s needs.

Participate in technical working groups, program management reviews, and requirements review meetings.  

Assist JIEDDO-COIC engage with the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) as necessary to certify interoperability and compatibility with existing and future systems.



C.4.4	TASK-4 - PROVIDE OPERATIONS/INTELLIGENCE MANAGEMENT SUPPORT



Desired Outcome:  The quantity and lethality of IEDs employed continues to decrease as a direct result of the JIEDDO-COIC Attack the Network initiatives and efforts, as supported by this contract.

The contractor shall provide JIEDDO-COIC operations/intelligence management support to JIEDDO-COIC to ensure needed intelligence capabilities and information are provided within schedule (Latest Time of Value - LTV) and budget constraints.  Specifically, the contractor shall:



Provide management and professional support, assistance, and advice for the efficient and effective management and operation of the C-IED Operations/Intelligence Integration Center (COIC) activities and systems.  

Analyze the development and execution of information integration management functions.  

Develop and facilitate collection requirements and nominations; develop and utilize Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR) synchronization matrices; and integrate COIC collection capabilities with other ISR assets.  

Support the management, tracking, and reporting of deploying and redeploying COIC personnel in coordination with JIEDDO Field Teams. 

Support the management of embedding of COIC personnel with units preparing for combat deployments in coordination with the Joint Center of Excellence (JCOE).

In coordination with JIEDDO and COIC staff officers, engage, both internally and externally, with individuals, organizations, and communities of interest agents, to inform and demonstrate COIC capabilities and tools. 

Coordinate COIC support for the JIEDDO Operational Requirements and Assessment Board (JORAB), Operations Update, C-IED Senior Integration Group (C-SIG), and other JIEDDO Battle Rhythm events as required.

Assist in the coordination of internal COIC planning requirements, planning with JIEDDO, and planning with external agencies as required. 

Support the development of measures of performance and measures of effectiveness to enable effective assessment, management, and improvement of COIC mission performance.

Contribute to the development, drafting, and promulgation of intelligence Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP).



C.4.5	TASK 5 – PROVIDE SUPPORT TO TECHNICAL POINT OF CONTACT (TPOC) 



Desired Outcome:  JIEDDO-COIC Technical Points of Contact (TPOCs) and Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs) have the technical expertise and analytical support available to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule of those contracts.



Where applicable, monitor Earned Value Management System (EVMS) reports and ensure task order technical efforts use an ANSI/EIA-748 compliant earned value management system that correlates cost and schedule performance with technical progress.  This includes review and advice on the Contract Work Breakdown Structure Index and Dictionary, Project Schedule, and Contract Performance Report.  



The contractor shall assist the JIEDDO-COIC TPOC with technical expertise and analysis to ensure products and services contracted through other contracts are delivered in accordance with specifications, requirements, cost, and schedule. Specifically, the contractor shall assist the TPOC with technically monitoring and providing assessments of the following:



Contract Program Management

Task Cost, Schedule, and Performance Management

Metrics measurements, trends, analysis, consequences, and recommendations

Earned Value Management

Status Reporting

Risk Management

Performance Benchmarking/Performance Measurements



Progress toward achieving the desired outcome  of preventing IEDs from being implanted.  This outcome is expected to be achieved, in part, by rapidly deploying expert analytical teams trained in traditional intelligence analysis techniques (e.g. HUMINT, SIGINT, MASINT, IMINT) as well as new Irregular Warfare Analysis (IWA) methods (e.g., predictive analysis, pattern recognition, geo-profiling techniques, temporal analysis) to interrupt and destroy insurgent cells and networks along with associated logistics and related command and control capabilities.



Progress of research and capture of open source information and effective conduits to harvest the best thinking and innovations from leading industry and academic experts from the United States, its allies, and coalition partners to provide insights into the likely effects for the Counter-IED fight through applied techniques for Red Team and Wargaming analysis.



Progress of the  contractor to support to operate and maintain the COIC infrastructure (physical plant and security) and provide procurement, logistics, and technical support services directly related to the infrastructure and the mission of the COIC, and associated organizations and initiatives.



Progress of technology and integration contracts that conduct research and experimental development, provide analytical, technical, and operational assistance, and deliver required capabilities to the JIEDDO-COIC to enable successful execution of its mission.  

  

C.4.6	TASK 6 – PROVIDE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES



Desired Outcome:  The JIEDDO-COIC mission performance effectiveness and efficiency continues to improve as a result of the agency-wide, enterprise engineering technical support services provided.



The contractor shall provide agency wide, enterprise engineering technical support services that will enable effective and efficient mission performance.  Specifically, the contractor shall:



Provide engineering and technical services in the form of advice, assistance, COIC-specific training (e.g., COIC tools, processes, and techniques), and administrative/technical support of training and programs for COIC operations.  

Provide information technology advice addressing architecture design and capital programming, investment control; and software , including, but not limited to implementing a web based, commercial off-the-shelf software product. 

Provide systems engineering services that include preparing specifications and draft work statements for Government consideration, addressing interoperability needs,  examining design alternatives, conducting functional and engineering analysis, identifying and resolving interface problems, developing test requirements, evaluating test data, and assessing system performance to verify and validate specified system in the target environment. .  

Provide risk assessments of COIC technical operations, including the identification of risk areas, assessment of risk factors, identification of resources necessary to reduce risk, identification and analysis of alternative actions available, identification of the most promising alternatives, and planning for risk reduction implementation.  

Provide the following engineering support services for JIEDDO-COIC:

Configuration Management

Configuration Identification

Change Control

Status Accounting

Auditing (e.g., Functional Configuration Audit, Physical Configuration Audit)

Baseline Management (e.g., Functional, Allocated, Product, Operational)



Development and Test Facility Implementation and Support

Logistical Support and Inventory Management in accordance with the JIEDDO-COIC Supply Standard Operating Procedures dated 6 November 2009

Asset Management		

Hardware

Software

Licenses

Acquisition of Commodities

Acceptance and Staging of Equipment

Supplies and Expendables

Logistics and Property Accounting

Property Management



Telecommunications, Network, and Satellite Systems Engineering

Architecture design and development of implementation options in conformance with specified guidelines 

Network engineering for Internet protocol (IP) convergence and integrated voice, data and video communications systems

System and network management documentation 

Transition and connectivity from local area networks, (LAN) to metropolitan area networks (MAN), and wide area network (WAN)  

Design and installation of wireless and microwave technology 

Satellite systems engineering, design, integration, and test (including, Terminals, Teleport, Transmission, Signal/Waveform/Image Processing) 

Secure and Unsecure Video Teleconferencing

Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) 

Transition to IPv6 and beyond

Wireless Networking 

Network and Telecommunications Infrastructure 



Information Assurance (including Information, Application, Network, System, Data, and Physical Security)

Security Architecture Design (e.g., Defense in Depth)

Security Engineering 		

Security Hardening 

Intrusion Detection and Mitigation

Remote Monitoring

Computer Security Incident Response 	

Computer Security Awareness and Training 

Continuity of Operations (including Disaster Recovery and  Contingency Planning) 	

Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E)/System Certification and Accreditation (DITSCAP and DIACAP) 	



C.5	SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS



Unless the Government invokes an exemption, all EIT products and services proposed shall fully comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, per the 1998 Amendments, 29 U.S.C.  794d, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194.  The contractor shall identify all EIT products and services proposed, identify the technical standards applicable to all products and services proposed and state the degree of compliance with the applicable standards.  Additionally, the contractor must clearly indicate where the information pertaining to Section 508 compliance can be found (e.g., Vendor’s or other exact web page location).  The contractor must ensure that the list is easily accessible by typical users beginning at time of award.  The Government believes the following 508 standards are applicable (this does not relieve the contractor of the responsibility for their determination and compliance):



1194.21 - Software Applications and Operating Systems

1194.23 - Telecommunications Products

1194.26 - Desktop and Portable Computers

1194.41 - Information, Documentation and Support

1194.31 - Functional Performance Criteria







D.1	PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, PACKING, AND MARKING



Preservation, packaging, packing and marking of all deliverables must conform to normal commercial packing standards to assure safe delivery at destination.



D.2	deliverables media



The contractor shall provide virus-free electronic format deliverables (i.e. CDROM) and/or printed deliverables to addresses identified in Section F.6, or contractor’s secure portal for those deliveries that cannot be emailed.  



D.3	MARKINGS FOR DELIVERY



Electronic copies shall be delivered via email attachment.  For printed and electronic deliverables, the contractor shall label each delivery with the IDIQ contract, Task Order Number and Project Title in the subject line of the an email transmittal, or in the packing list for printed materials.   



Packing, marking and storage costs shall not be billed to the Government unless specifically authorized in an order. 



D.4	552.211-73 Marking (FEB 1996) 



General requirements. Interior packages, if any, and exterior shipping containers shall be marked as specified elsewhere in the Contract (See Section D.3).  Additional marking requirements may be specified on Orders issued under this Contract.  If not otherwise specified, interior packages and exterior-shipping containers shall be marked in accordance with the following standards: 

Deliveries to civilian activities. Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Federal Standard 123, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation. 

Deliveries to military activities. Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Military Standards 129, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation. 



Improperly marked material. When Government inspection and acceptance are at destination, and delivered supplies are not marked in accordance with contract requirements, the Government has the right, without prior notice to the contractor, to perform the required marking, by contract or otherwise, and charge the contractor therefore the reasonable actual cost of that performance. This right is not exclusive, and is in addition to other rights or remedies provided for in this contract. 



D.5	552.211-75 Preservation, Packaging, and Packing (FEB 1996)



Unless otherwise specified, all items shall be preserved, packaged, and packed in accordance with normal commercial practices, as defined in the applicable commodity specifications. Packaging and packing shall comply with the requirements of the Uniform Freight Classification and the National Motor Freight Classification (issue in effect at time of shipment) and each shipping container of each item in a shipment shall be of uniform size and content, except for residual quantities. Where special packing is specified in an order, but not specifically provided for by the contract, such packing details must be the subject of an agreement independently arrived at between the ordering agency and the contractor. 



D.6	552.211-77 Packing List (FEB 1996) 



A packing list or other suitable shipping document shall accompany each shipment and shall include: 

Name and address of the consignor; 

Name and complete address of the consignee; 

Government Order or requisition number 

Government bill of lading number covering the shipment (if any); and 

Description of the material shipped, including item number, quantity, number of containers, and packaging number (if any). 



When payment will be made by Government commercial credit card, in addition to the information in (a) above, the packing list or shipping document shall include: 

Cardholder name and telephone number and 

The term “Credit Card.” 











E.1	52.252-2 CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) 



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov 



52.246-3 INSPECTION OF SUPPLIES – COST-REIMBURSEMENT (MAY 2001) 

52.246-2 INSPECTION OF SUPPLIES – FIXED PRICE (AUGUST 1996)

52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES – FIXED PRICE (AUGUST 1996)

52.246-5 INSPECTION OF SERVICES – COST-REIMBURSEMENT (APR 1984) 

52.246-15 CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMANCE (APR 1984) 

52.246-16 RESPONSIBILTY FOR SUPPLIES (APR 1984) 



E.2	Government Rights to Inspection



The Government, through its authorized representative, has the right, at all reasonable times, to inspect, or otherwise evaluate the work performed, or being performed, hereunder and shall notify the contractor of unsatisfactory performance.  All inspections and evaluations shall be performed in such a manner as will not unduly delay the work. 



It will be the responsibility of individual task order JIEDDO Technical Point of Contacts (TPOCs) and CORs to ensure that adequate records of the inspection or evaluation are kept to support acceptance or rejection of work performed or being performed. 



Acceptance will be made by the COR or designated representative(s); the contracting officer, if necessary, will make rejections.



E.3 	PLACE OF INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



Inspection and acceptance of all work performance, reports and other deliverables under this Contract shall be performed at destination.



E.4	SCOPE OF INSPECTION



All deliverables will be inspected for content, completeness, accuracy and conformance to contract requirements by the JIEDDO TPOC and FEDSIM COR.  The Government will use a Performance Requirements Summary (PRS) as a basis for acceptance of performance and deliverables under task orders.  The PRS may be updated throughout the task order period of performance in cooperation with the contractor.   Inspection may include validation of information through the use of automated tools, testing or inspections of the deliverables, as specified in the task orders.  The scope and nature of this inspection will be sufficiently comprehensive to ensure the completeness, quality, and adequacy of all deliverables.



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, the Government requires a period not to exceed 15 work days after receipt of final deliverable items for inspection and acceptance or rejection.



E.5	BASIS OF ACCEPTANCE



The basis for acceptance shall be in compliance with the requirements, terms, and conditions set forth in this Contract, the individual task order, and the contractor’s proposal.  Deliverable items rejected shall be corrected in accordance with the applicable clauses in Section E.1.



For software development, the final acceptance of the software program will occur when all discrepancies, errors or other deficiencies identified in writing by the Government have been resolved, either through documentation updates, program correction or other mutually agreeable methods.



Reports, documents and narrative type deliverables will be accepted when all discrepancies, errors or other deficiencies identified in writing by the Government have been corrected.



If the draft deliverable is adequate, the Government may accept the draft and provide comments for incorporation into the final version.



All of the Government's comments to deliverables must either be incorporated in the succeeding version of the deliverable or the contractor must demonstrate to the Government's satisfaction why such comments should not be incorporated.



If the Government finds that a draft or final deliverable contains spelling errors, grammatical errors, improper format, or otherwise does not conform to the requirements stated within this contract, the document may be immediately rejected without further review and returned to the contractor for correction and resubmission.  If the contractor requires additional Government guidance to produce an acceptable draft, the contractor shall arrange a meeting with the FEDSIM COR and the JIEDDO TPOC. 



E.6	DRAFT DELIVERABLES



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, the Government will provide written acceptance, comments and/or change requests, if any, within 15 work days from Government receipt of the draft deliverable.  Upon receipt of the Government comments, the contractor shall have 10 work days to incorporate the Government's comments and/or change requests and to resubmit the deliverable in its final form.



E.7	WRITTEN ACCEPTANCE/REJECTION BY THE GOVERNMENT



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, the Contracting Officer (CO)/Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) shall provide written notification of acceptance or rejection of all final deliverables within 15 work days.  All notifications of rejection will be accompanied with an explanation of the specific deficiencies causing the rejection.  If written notification of acceptance or rejection is not received by the contractor within 15 work days, the contractor shall not automatically assume that the deliverable is accepted, and shall contact the COR for clarification of the deliverable’s status.



E.8	NON-CONFORMING PRODUCTS OR SERVICES



Non-conforming products or services will be rejected.  Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, the contractor shall correct deficiencies within 10 work days of the rejection notice. If the deficiencies cannot be corrected within ten (10) work days, the contractor shall immediately notify the FEDSIM COR of the reason for the delay and provide a proposed corrective action plan. 



F.1	52.252-2 CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) 



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: 

.



52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) 

52.242-17 GOVERNMENT DELAY OF WORK (APR 1984)



F.2	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



Current operational needs require that this support be provided at the JIEDDO-COIC in the metro-Washington, DC area, at nearby Contractor facilities, and potentially in forward deployed positions in support of the Combatant Commanders.  The specific places of performance may change during the performance of this contract.  The need to provide support in deployed locations will be specified in individual task orders.  

  

Task orders under this contract may require work at Contractor facilities with safeguarding of classified materials as required by the DD254 (see attachment C).  Accordingly, the contractor shall provide appropriately cleared office facilities within close proximity of the COIC office as required by individual task orders.  With oversight from proper Government authorities, task orders under this contract may require the contractor to operate secure facilities in designated anonymous locales.  Unclassified and classified telecommunications support and maintenance will be provided by the government.



F.2.1		ROTATIONAL DUTY LOCATIONS 



Duty locations shall be rotational between forward deployed conventional and special operations forces in locations worldwide. Unit CONUS or OCONUS home base locations, JIEDDO facility locations in the metro-Washington D.C. area, or other home work site locations as the Government may designate in the future.  During periods of duty in CONUS, Contractor personnel shall operate from the JIEDDO-COIC or JIEDDO Headquarters, both in the Washington, D.C. area, in analytical and training support roles, as directed by the TPOC.  During periods of duty in CONUS, contractor personnel shall travel TDY to and work from Unit home base CONUS or OCONUS locations to support pre-deployment training as agreed upon between JIEDDO-COIC and the unit when scheduling unit pre-deployment training.  This is in order to support Unit pre-deployment training and team building.  The contractor may be required to work at one or more alternative work sites outside the metro-Washington, D.C. area as the “home” locations for CONUS.



F.2.2		DEPLOYMENT LOCATIONS



During deployments, the contractor shall normally operate from a U.S. established Forward Operating Base (FOB) under operational control (OPCON) of forward deployed JIEDDO field team commanders and tactical control (TACON) to the supported command.  Contractor personnel may be required to move from the initially supported Unit to another FOB or Task Force during a deployment to meet operational requirements.   The standard deployed periods shall be four to six consecutive months.  The Government may modify deployment periods.  All schedules shall include the requirement for no less than five days of face-to-face turnover between departing and replacement Contractor personnel at the supported Unit headquarters.  Each period of deployment shall be followed by a period of duty at the specified CONUS “home” location.  Time at the “home” location should be no less than the time deployed approximately equal to twice the period of deployment, before another period of deployment begins.  The range for the lengths of a deployment and the period between deployments can be adjusted by mutual agreement between the Government and the contractor.



F.2.3	WORK HOURS 



The work profile expected from this contract is different for CONUS and OCONUS.  The contractor shall comply with the work profile as follows.



CONUS - While on duty in the United States, a standard 40 hour work week shall be applied.  Normal work hours are from 8:00 to 17:00.  However, as directed by the JIEDDO TPOC / FEDSIM COR, the contractor may be required to provide labor hours in excess of 40-hours per work week to include holiday, weekends, and/or during irregular times and shifts based upon operations and exercises which may require 24/7 support.  The contractor shall provide work beyond 40 hours per week only when directed by the JIEDDO TPOC / FEDSIM COR.  All overtime work must be approved in advance by the FEDSIM CO and COR IAW FAR 22.103-3.  The contractor shall request overtime in writing and the FEDSIM CO or COR must approve.  



OCONUS - While on periods of deployed duty with U.S. forces, a standard 84-hour work week is observed as required by the supported unit commander.  	



On-Call Duty or Extended Hours - The contractor shall be available to work "on-call" to perform mission essential tasks as directed by the CO or COR.  The CO, or COR, will identify the parameters of "on-call" duty.  The contractor shall be available to work extended hours to perform mission essential tasks as directed by the CO or COR.  



F.3	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance (POP) will be 24 months from date of award with the ability to exercise three (3), one-year options.  Task orders may be issued up until the final day of the contract period of performance; however, any task order issued under the contract cannot be longer than 5 years in length.  Furthermore, any task order issued under the contract shall not extend beyond one-year of the IDIQ contract end date.  The Government will follow a competitive process to determine the terms and conditions of all task orders awarded under this IDIQ contract.



F.4	TASK ORDER SCHEDULE AND MILESTONE DATES



Each task order shall specifically set forth the items to be delivered, the associated delivery date(s) and/or period of performance.  



F.5	DELIVERABLES MEDIA FORMAT



The contractor shall deliver all virus-free electronic versions by email and CD-ROM as well as placing in the JIEDDO designated repository.  Identified below are the required electronic formats, whose versions must be compatible with the latest available version on the market.



Text			Microsoft Word

Spreadsheets		Microsoft Excel

Briefings			Microsoft PowerPoint 

Drawings			Microsoft Visio

Schedules			Microsoft Project 



F.6	PLACE(s) OF DELIVERY



Unclassified deliverables and correspondence shall be delivered to the GSA COR and JIEDDO TPOC specified in individual task orders.  Classified deliverables shall be delivered to the JIEDDO TPOC and notice of the delivery shall be provided to the GSA Contracting Officer and COR.  



F.7	NOTICE REGARDING LATE DELIVERY/ PROBLEM NOTIFICATION

REPORT



The contractor shall notify the task order FEDSIM COR and JIEDDO TPOC via a Problem Notification Report [PNR] (See List of Attachments, Attachment B) as soon as it becomes apparent to the contractor that a scheduled delivery will be late.  The contractor shall include in the PNR the rationale for late delivery, the expected date for the delivery and the project impact of the late delivery.  The task order FEDSIM COR and the JIEDDO TPOC will review the new schedule and provide guidance to the contractor.  Such notification in no way limits any Government contractual rights or remedies including but not limited to termination.





G.1	INVOICE SUBMISSION



Invoices shall be submitted at the task order level, and not the IDIQ contract level.  



The contractor shall submit Requests for Payments in accordance with the format contained in GSAM 552.232-70, INVOICE REQUIREMENTS (SEPT 1999), to be considered proper for payment.  In addition, the data elements indicated below shall be included on each invoice.



Task Order number:  (from GSA Form 300, Block 2)

Paying Number:  (ACT/DAC NO.) (From GSA Form 300, Block 4)

FEDSIM Project No.: 

Project Title: 



The contractor shall provide invoice backup data in accordance with the contract type, including detail such as labor categories, costs and quantities of labor hours per labor category.  



The contractor shall submit task order invoices as follows:



The contractor shall utilize FEDSIM’s electronic Tracking and Ordering System (TOS) to submit invoices.  The contractor shall submit invoices electronically by logging onto the following link (requires Internet Explorer to access the link):







Select Vendor Support, log in using your assigned I.D. and password, then click on Create Invoice.  The TOS Help Desk should be contacted for support at 877-472-4877 (toll free).  By utilizing this method, no paper copy of the invoice shall be submitted to GSA FEDSIM or the GSA Finance Center.  However, the contractor shall provide an electronic copy of the invoice (draft or final) to both the JIEDDO TPOC and the FEDSIM COR listed in the task order prior to submission in TOS.



G.1.1	INVOICE REQUIREMENTS



G.1.1.1	Cost Plus Incentive or Award Fee (CPI/AF) Labor



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, for CPI/AF tasks, the contractor may invoice monthly on the basis of cost incurred for the CPI/AF CLINs.  The invoice shall include the period of performance covered by the invoice and the CLIN number and title.  All hours and costs shall be reported by CLIN element and contractor employee and shall be provided for the current billing month and in total from project inception to date.  The contractor shall provide the invoice data in spreadsheet form with the following detailed information.  The listing shall include separate columns and totals for the current invoice period and the project to date.



Employee name (current and past employees)

Employee SETA labor category

Mapped Contractor Labor Category

Monthly and total cumulative hours worked

Monthly and accumulated employee labor costs, associated overhead and G&A (if applicable)

Cost incurred not billed

SETA ceiling rates



All cost presentations provided by the contractor shall include Overhead Charges, and General and Administrative Charges.



The Government will promptly make payment of any award fee upon the submission, by the contractor to the FEDSIM Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), of a public voucher or invoice in the amount of the total fee earned for the period evaluated.  Payment may be made without issuing a Task Order modification if funds have been obligated for the award fee amount.  The contractor shall attach the AFDO/CO determination letter to the public voucher and/or invoice.



G.1.1.2	Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF) CLINS



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, for CPFF tasks, the contractor may invoice monthly on the basis of cost incurred for the CPFF CLINs.  The invoice shall include the period of performance covered by the invoice and the CLIN number and title.  All hours and costs shall be reported by CLIN element and contractor employee and shall be provided for the current billing month and in total from project inception to date.  The contractor shall provide the invoice data in spreadsheet form with the following detailed information.  The listing shall include separate columns and totals for the current invoice period and the project to date.



Employee name (current and past employees)

Employee SETA labor category

Mapped Contractor Labor Category

Monthly and total cumulative hours worked

Monthly and accumulated employee labor costs, associated overhead and General & Administrative (G&A) costs (if applicable)

Cost incurred not billed

Fixed fee

SETA ceiling rates



All cost presentations provided by the contractor shall also include Overhead Charges, and General and Administrative Charges.



G.1.1.3	Firm Fixed Price (FFP) CLINS 



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, for FFP tasks, the contractor may invoice as stated in the task order proposal for the FFP CLINs.  The invoice shall include the period of performance/deliverable or progress payment period covered by the invoice and the CLIN number and title.  All costs shall be reported by CLIN element and shall be provided for the current invoice and in total from project inception to date.  The contractor shall provide the invoice data in spreadsheet form with the following detailed information.  The listing shall include separate columns and totals for the current invoice period and the project to date.



G.1.1.4	Tools and Other Direct Costs (ODCs)



Unless otherwise specified in individual task orders, for tools and ODCs, the contractor may invoice monthly on the basis of cost incurred.  The invoice shall include the period of performance covered by the invoice, the CLIN number and title.  In addition, the contractor shall provide the following detailed information for each invoice submitted, as applicable.  Spreadsheet submissions are required.



Tools and/or ODCs purchased

Consent to Purchase number or identifier

Date accepted by the Government

Associated CLIN

Project to date totals by CLIN

Cost incurred not billed

Remaining balance of the CLIN



All cost presentations provided by the contractor shall also include Overhead Charges, General and Administrative Charges.



G.1.1.5	Travel



The contractor may invoice monthly on the basis of cost incurred for cost of travel comparable with the JTR.  Long distance travel is defined as travel over 50 miles.  The invoice shall include the period of performance covered by the invoice, the CLIN number and title.  The government authorization to travel and separate worksheets, in MS Excel format, shall be submitted for travel.



CLIN/Task Total Travel: This invoice information shall identify all cumulative travel costs billed by CLIN/Task.  The current invoice period’s travel detail shall include separate columns and totals and include the following:



Travel Authorization Request number or identifier

Current invoice period

Names of persons traveling

Number of travel days

Dates of travel

Number of days per diem charged

Per diem rate used

Total per diem charged

Transportation costs

Total charges



All cost presentations provided by the contractor shall also include Overhead Charges and General and Administrative Charges. 



G.2	CONTRACTING OFFICER (CO)



GSA FEDSIM

ATTN:  Michael Chappelle, CO

2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800

Arlington, VA  20406

Telephone: (703) 605-2656

Fax: (703) 605-9895

Email: michael.chappelle@gsa.gov



G.3	JIEDDO technical point of contact (tpoc) 

(To be provided at award) 



ATTN:  

Street

City/State

Telephone: 

Fax:  

Email:



G.3.1	TECHNICAL POINT OF CONTACT (TPOC) RESPONSIBILITIES



The Contracting Officer will appoint a JIEDDO-COIC Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) to act in coordination with the Contracting Officer’s Representative, to monitor the contractor's performance to ensure that all of the technical requirements under the contract are met.  The TPOC will provide technical guidance for technical phases of the work.  The TPOC will provide no supervisory or instructional assistance to Contractor personnel.



The TPOC is not authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of the Contract.  Changes in the scope of work will be made only by the CO via properly executed modifications to the contract.



G.4	CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (COR)



GSA FEDSIM

ATTN:  Patricia Bouker, COR

2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800

Arlington, VA  20406

Telephone: (703) 605-3626

Email:  patty.bouker@gsa.gov



G.4.1	CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) RESPONSIBILITIES



The Contracting Officer will appoint a COR in writing for the contract and each task order.  The COR will rely upon advice from the JIEDD-COIC TPOC to receive for the Government all work called for by the contract/task order and will represent the CO in the technical phases of the work.  The COR will provide no supervisory or instructional assistance to contractor personnel.



The COR is not authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of the Contract or the contract/task order.  Any changes in the scope of work will be made by the CO via properly executed modifications to the contract or the task order.





 



H.1	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP)



All contractor work must be performed on-Government site and in most cases either all or a significant part of the work shall be performed in Sensitive Compartmented Information facilities (SCIFs).  The Government will provide contractor personnel with workstations equipped with telephones, and computers and monitors which are connected to networks that provide access to data required to perform their work.  On-Government site personnel will also have printers and scanners provided for official project use.  Contractor access to this Government furnished computer-related equipment and networks is contingent on the individual possessing clearances at the appropriate level.



H.1.1		CONTRACTOR FACILITIES



Task orders under this contract may require work at Contractor facilities with access to Contractor-owned facilities to safeguard classified material in accordance with the DD254 (see attachment C).  Accordingly, the contractor shall provide appropriately cleared office facilities within close proximity of the COIC office as required by individual task orders.  Generally, work shall be performed in close proximity to the JIEDDO-COIC facilities in metropolitan Washington D.C. area.  With oversight from proper Government authorities, task orders under this contract may require the contractor to operate secure facilities in designated anonymous locales.  Unclassified and classified telecommunications support and maintenance will be provided by the government.



H.1.2		Transportation of Government Furnished property



The contractor shall be responsible for transporting all GFP between the Government site(s) and the contractor's place of performance.  Pickup and delivery of all materials shall be in accordance with the schedule defined for each specific requirement.



H.1.3		Government Furnished Items 



Performance of this contract may require deployment to forward positions.  The Government will provide certain items from the standard source of supply for such things as uniforms, weapons, protective equipment, billeting/rationing, Common Access Card, and training for pre-deployment, weapons qualification, and technical/functional training at JIEDDO-COIC on regional operational procedures, the threat situation and the applicable operational and intelligence tools as necessary.  In addition, in order to promote future competitive procurements, the contractor will be required to document the methodology employed, and to provide training to designated JIEDDO-COIC individuals on the application of the contractor’s methodology.  The COR will ensure that required services have been provided prior to certifying invoices by relying upon a series of reports, briefings, and inspections as described in the Performance Work Statement.    



The contractor shall identify and recommend any and all GFE/GFI requirements and timelines to facilitate the execution of this contract. This shall include, but not be limited to, documents, specific data and sources, hardware, software, and other COTS/GOTS products.  The contractor shall be responsible for the configuration management and maintenance of all GFE/GFI/CFE received for the execution of this contract until received back by the Government.  The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government information and property provided for use in the performance of this contract, including, but not limited to, those designated as classified, unclassified sensitive, For Official Use Only (FOUO), Operations Security (OPSEC) sensitive, and Privacy Act Information, in accordance with applicable government directives.



The contractor shall protect from unauthorized disclosure any materials or information made available by the Government, or that the contractor has access to by virtue of the provisions of this contract, that are not intended for public disclosure.



The material and information made available to the contractor by the Government, or that the contractor comes into contact with in completing this contract, are the exclusive property of the Government.  Any information or materials developed by the contractor in performance of this contract are also the exclusive property of the Government.  Upon completion or termination of this contract, the contractor shall turn over to the Government all materials (copies included) that were furnished to the contractor by the Government and all materials that were developed by the contractor in the performance of this contract.



The contractor shall be responsible for the configuration management and maintenance of all GFE/GFI received for the execution of this contract until received back by the Government.  The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all Government information and property provided for use in the performance of this contract, including, but not limited to, those designated as classified, unclassified sensitive, For Official Use Only (FOUO), Operations Security (OPSEC) sensitive, and Privacy Act Information, in accordance with applicable Government directives.



The contractor shall ensure that all Information Systems used by Contractor personnel are protected and accredited in accordance with applicable directives.  The contractor and their employees shall comply with JIEDDO policies regarding acceptable use of Government-owned computer systems and networks.



H.2	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION (GFI)



The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all Government information and property provided for contractor use. The contractor shall safeguard information and material including, but not limited to, those designated as classified, unclassified sensitive, For Official Use Only (FOUO), Operations Security (OPSEC) sensitive, and Privacy Act Information in accordance with applicable directives.



H.3		TRAVEL



H.3.1		TRAVEL REGULATIONS



The contractor may be reimbursed for travel costs to the extent stated in FAR 31.205-46 Travel costs, and in accordance with the travel regulations specified below. 



Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Volume 2, DoD Civilian Personnel, Appendix A, prescribed by the Department of Defense, for travel in Alaska, Hawaii, and outlying areas of the United States.



H.3.2		TRAVEL AUTHORIZATION REQUESTS



Prior to any long distance travel (greater than 50 miles), the contractor shall prepare a Travel Authorization Request IAW JIEDDO travel SOPs for task order-specific JIEDDO TPOC endorsement and COR approval.  The contractor shall use only the minimum number of travelers and rental cars needed to accomplish the task(s).  Travel shall be scheduled during normal duty hours whenever possible.  Notification shall include, at a minimum, the number of persons in the party, traveler name, and destination, duration of stay, purpose, and estimated cost.  



Note:  To meet short notice and non-duty day travel requirements for task orders, the contractor shall proceed with travel arrangements and perform the travel without prior COR approval, provided the:



Contractor receives notice of a travel requirement from the JIEDDO TPOC on a weekend or Government holiday;

Contractor receives less than 24 hours notice of a travel requirement from the JIEDDO TPOC;

JIEDDO TPOC has concurred with the travel request; 

Contractor and JIEDDO TPOC certify travel funding is available; 

Contractor submits the travel request via email to the COR within 24 hours after receipt of JIEDDO TPOC notice to travel.



H.3.2.1	CONTENT OF TRAVEL REQUESTS



Requests for travel approval shall contain:



Date, time and points of departure;

Destination, time and dates of arrival;

Name of each Contractor employee and position title;

Include a description of the travel proposed including a statement as to purpose;

Estimated Cost

Identify the contract and task order numbers;

Identify the CLIN(s) and Interagency Agreement number associated with the travel;

Normally be submitted at least ten days in advance of the travel to permit review and approval.



H.3.3		TRIP REPORTS 



A Trip Report is required after Contractor travel is completed and shall be submitted within 3 business days.  A trip report template will be accessible on the JIEDDO SIPRNet.  The contractor shall keep a summary of all long-distance travel, to include, at a minimum, the name of the employee, location of travel, duration of trip, cost and POC at travel location.  



H.4		TOOLS (HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE) AND/OR ODCs



The Government may require the contractor to purchase hardware, software, and supplies critical and related to the services being acquired under the contract.  Such requirements will be identified at the time a task order is issued or may be identified during the course of a task order, by the Government or the contractor with TPOC and COR approval.  The contractor shall follow JIEDDO-COIC procedures for establishing approval of a Material Action Request (MAR) for JIEDDO approval of tools and ODCS.  If the contractor initiates a purchase within the scope of this contract, and the prime Contractor has an approved purchasing system, the contractor shall submit the JIEDDO-COIC approved MAR to the task order JIEDDO TPOC and FEDSIM COR along with a Request to Initiate Purchase (RIP).  If the prime Contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, the contractor shall submit the JIEDDO approved MAR to the task order CO with a Consent to Purchase (CTP).  The RIP and CTP shall include the purpose, specific items, estimated cost, cost comparison, and rationale.  The contractor shall not make any purchases without an approved RIP and authorization from the task order TPOC and COR. or an approved CTP from the task order CO, as appropriate.



H.5	TRANSFER OF HARDWARE/SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS



If the offeror proposes to provide any commercial computer software ("Commercial Software") as part of its proposed solution in response to this Solicitation, the offeror shall ensure that any software license agreement ("License Agreement") associated with such Commercial Software and intended to bind the Government complies with the FAR clause at 12.212(a), which provides, in relevant part, that commercial computer software and documentation shall be acquired under licenses customarily provided to the public "to the extent such licenses are consistent with Federal law."  The most common examples of areas of non-compliance are set forth in the table below, which is provided for information purposes only and does not constitute an exhaustive list.  



The requirement to propose compliant License Agreements shall apply regardless of whether the original rights holder to the Commercial Software ("Licensor") is the offeror, its subcontractor, or a third party, in the case of third-party software embedded or provided with the Commercial Software.  Further, this requirement shall apply regardless of the format or title of the License Agreement, i.e., whether entitled "Software License Agreement," "End User License Agreement," "Terms of Service," or otherwise, and whether presented in hard copy or in a clickwrap or other electronic format.  For the avoidance of doubt, this may require the offeror to negotiate with its Licensors and to obtain a revised version of the License Agreement.  License Agreements incorporated into a company's existing Schedule 70 or other Government contract are not exempt from this requirement. 



If proposing Commercial Software, the offeror shall include a statement in its proposal certifying that all applicable License Agreements will comply the requirement of this section H.5 (actual License Agreements need not be submitted prior to award).  Failure to certify compliance will render the proposal ineligible for award, and non-compliance identified after award may entitle the Government to terminate the contract and seek any or all available remedies for breach of contract.







* The following standard commercial terms are deemed non-compliant within the meaning of this clause

** The License Agreement will be deemed compliant when the action specified in this column is successfully implemented



H.6		PERSONNEL



H.6.1		KEY PERSONNEL



The contractor shall propose appropriate personnel and labor categories for key personnel positions.  The contractor shall propose appropriate levels of support for each task order and the Government will evaluate the proposed personnel on a task order basis to determine that the levels of support proposed are commensurate with the required work. 



The minimum key personnel requirements for the contract is a Program Manager.  Additional key personnel requirements may be specified by the Government in individual task orders.  The Government desires that the proposed Program Manager be assigned for the duration of the Contract.  Key Personnel may be replaced or removed subject to Section H.6.1.1, Special Contract Requirements, Key Personnel Substitution. The contract Program Manager shall provide oversight of all work issued under the contract.  In order to perform work on this contract, the Program Manager must have a minimum TS/SCI security clearance, as of the date of proposal.  



It is highly desireable that the Program Manager have:



B.A. or B.S. degree or equivalent experience.

Minimum 8 years of experience managing programs of a similar size and complexity, including those within a multiple task order environment which interface with multiple Government agencies and industry partners.

Experience with harnessing, massing and fusing information, analysis, technology, interagency collaboration or training support to enable more precise attacks to  enable attack on enemy human-networks which employ IEDs.

Experience and ability to serve as the contractor’s single contract manager and represent the contractor in communications with the Government’s Contracting Officer, Government management personnel and customer agency representatives.  

Experience and ability to formulate and enforce work standards, assign contractor schedules, review work discrepancies, supervise personnel and communicate policies, purposes and goals of the organization to subordinates.



H.6.1.1	KEY PERSONNEL SUBSTITUTION



The contractor shall not replace any personnel designated as key personnel without the written concurrence of the CO.  Prior to utilizing other than personnel specified in contract proposal, the contractor shall notify the Government CO and the COR no later than 10 calendar days in advance of any proposed substitution and shall include justification (including resume(s) and labor category of proposed substitution(s)) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on contract performance.



Substitute personnel qualifications shall be equal to, or greater than those of the personnel being substituted.  If the Government CO and the COR determine that the proposed substitute personnel is unacceptable, or that the reduction of effort would be so substantial as to impair the successful performance of the work under the contract, the contractor may be subject to default action as prescribed by FAR 52.249-6 Termination (Cost Reimbursement) or FAR 52.249-8, Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service). 



H.6.2		GENERAL PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS



H.6.2.1	SUBSTITUTION OF EXPERIENCE FOR EDUCATION



The labor category descriptions provided in List of Attachments, Attachment K, provide the minimal degree required to qualify for each position.  At the discretion of the CO, the offeror may substitute an individual staff member’s experience for the minimal degree requirement.  For each individual substitution proposed, the offeror shall obtain written approval from the CO prior to assigning the individual to the labor category.  



H.6.2.2	SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE 



The labor category descriptions provided in List of Attachments, Attachment K, provide the minimal experience required to qualify for each position.  At the discretion of the CO, the offeror may substitute an individual staff member’s higher education degree for years of experience.  For each individual substitution proposed, the offeror shall obtain written approval from the CO prior to assigning the individual to the labor category.  



H.6.2.3	REMOVAL OF PERSONNEL



The Government will require the contractor to remove any employee from the job site for reasons of misconduct, safety, environmental, security, or any employee found to be, or suspected of being, under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or incapacitating agent.  Upon request, the Government may require the contractor to test employees suspected of being under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or incapacitating agent.  The removal of a Contractor employee from the job site shall not alleviate the contractor of the requirement to provide sufficient personnel to perform the services as required by this contract.



H.7	Organizational Conflict of Interest AND NON-DISCLOSURE



H.7.1	 Organizational Conflict of Interest



The contractor shall not have any Organizational Conflicts of Interest (OCI) as described in FAR Subpart 9.5.  The following also applies:



a)	The contractor (including subcontractors) will not be a prime or subcontractor on any contract within the Capstone Acquisition Strategy (see Section C.1 Purpose).





b)	The contractor shall not be a prime contractor on any other JIEDDO-COIC contracts.



c) 	The contractor shall not work on any task orders or contracts awarded by other agencies that involve JIEDDO-COIC sponsored or funded activities



d)	OCI Exclusion from Future Agency Contracts:  Work under this contract may create a future organizational conflict of interest (OCI) that could prohibit the contractor including any proposed subcontractors, from competing for, or being awarded future JIEDDO-COIC contracts.



f)	This clause shall not exclude the contractor from performing work under any amendment or modification to this contract or from competing for any future JIEDDO-COIC contract or JIEDDO-COIC work that is the same or similar to work performed under this contract.  


g)	The term “Contractor” used in this clause, includes any person, firm or corporation which has a majority or controlling interest in the contractor or in any parent corporation thereof, any person, firm, or corporation in or as to which the contractor (or any parent or subsidiary corporation thereof) has a majority or controlling interest. The term also includes the corporate officers of the contractor, those of any corporation which has a majority or controlling interest in the contractor, and those of any corporation in which the contractor (or any parent or subsidiary corporation thereof) has a majority of controlling interest.



h)	GSA FEDSIM may at its sole discretion, waive any provisions of this clause if deemed in the best interest of the Government. The exclusions contained in this clause shall apply for the duration of this contract and for a period of one (1) year after completion and acceptance or termination of all work performed hereunder. 





This clause shall be incorporated into any subcontracts or consultant agreements awarded under this contract unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise.  If any provision of this clause excludes the contractor from competition for, or award of any contract, the contractor shall not be permitted to serve as a subcontractor, at any tier, on such contract.  



H.7.2		NON-DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS



If this contract requires the contractor to act on behalf of, or provide advice with respect to any phase of an agency procurement, as defined in FAR 3.104-4, then the contractor shall ensure that all its personnel (to include Subcontractors) who will be personally and substantially involved in the performance of the contract:



execute and submit an “Employee/Contractor Non-Disclosure Agreement” Form (See Section J, List of Attachments, Attachment J) prior to the commencement of any work on the contract, and

are instructed in the FAR 3.104 requirements for disclosure, protection, and marking of contractor bid or proposal information, or source selection information.   



All proposed replacement contractor personnel also must submit a Non-Disclosure agreement and be instructed in the requirements of FAR 3.104.  Any information provided by contractors in the performance of this contract or obtained by the Government is only to be used in the performance of the contract.  The contractor shall put in place appropriate procedures for the protection of such information and shall be liable to the Government for any misuse or unauthorized disclosure of such information by its personnel, as defined above.



H.7.3 	PERSONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST



All personnel performing work under the SETA contract Task 3: Provide Acquisition & Intelligence Support (C.4.3), shall be required to disclose any financial conflicts of interests to the contractor designated project manager prior to performing work on an individual acquisition.  Should a personal conflict of interest arise, the contractor shall ensure that the employee is immediately recused from the acquisition.  The contractor shall be responsible for providing any additional resources required to ensure the recusal has no negative impact on the acquisition’s schedule.



H.8		TRANSITION



H.8.1		TRANSITION-In		



The contractor shall ensure that there will be minimum service disruption to vital Government business and no service degradation during and after transition-in for task orders issued under the contract.  The contractor shall conduct the transition-in using the methodology provided in the Transition-In plan provided in the contractor’s technical proposal for each task order.

 

H.8.2		TRANSITION-OUT



At the expiration of task orders issued under the contract, the Transition-Out plan shall facilitate the accomplishment of a seamless transition from the contractor to incoming contractor / government personnel.  The contractor shall conduct activities using the methodology that was approved by the Government in the Transition-Out plan deliverable for the applicable task order.



H.9		COST MANAGEMENT 



H.9.1		COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS



Unless exempt under 48 CFR 9903.201-1 and 9903.201-2, Contractors must comply with FAR 52.230-2, Cost Accounting Standards.



In accordance with FAR 52.230-1, Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification, Contractors shall notify the Contracting Officer on individual task orders, in writing, if there are any changes to the Disclosure Statement and provide the reason(s) for the change.



In accordance with FAR 52.230-6, Administration of Cost Accounting Standards, and FAR 52.230-7, Proposal Disclosure-Cost Accounting Practice, Contractors shall notify the Contracting Officer on individual task orders, in writing, if there are any changes to Cost Accounting Practices and provide the reason(s) for the change.  Under this clause and provision, the “Cognizant Federal agency official (CFAO)” is the same as the Contracting Officer identified in Section G.2.



H.9.2		CONTRACTOR’S PURCHASING SYSTEMS



The objective of a Contractor purchasing system assessment is to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness with which the contractor spends Government funds and complies with Government policies for subcontracting.



Prior to award of the contract, the Contracting Officer shall verify the validity of the contractor's purchasing system.  Thereafter, the contractor is required to certify to the Contracting Officer no later than 30 calendar days prior to the exercise of the option, the validity of their purchasing system.  Additionally, if reviews are conducted of the purchasing system after the exercise of the option, the contractor shall provide the results of the review to the Contracting Officer within 2 weeks from the date the results are known to the contractor.



H.9.3		EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT (EVM)



When EVM is determined to be applicable to an individual task order, the provisions and clause DFARS 252.234-7001 and 234-7002 apply.  



Based on the specific requirements, the contractor shall employ an American National Standards Institute (ANSI)/Electronics Industry Alliance (EIA)-748 compliant Earned Value Management System to determine the earned-value of the work being performed and report on the results to the Government.  A copy of the standard is available from Global Engineering Documents (1-800-854-7179).  The individual task orders will require delivery of the Contract Work Breakdown Structure (DI-MGMT-81334C), the Cost Performance Report (DI-MGMT-81466A) and the Cost Funds Status Report (DI-MGMT-81468).



Contractor Integrated Performance Management.  When applicable, the contractor shall establish, maintain, and use in the performance of this task order, an integrated performance management system.  Central to this integrated system shall be a validated Earned Value Management System (EVMS) in accordance with Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 252.234-7001, DFARS 252.234-7002, and the EVMS guidelines contained in ANSI/EIA-748.  To establish the integrated performance management system, the EVMS shall be linked to and supported by the contractor’s management processes and systems to include the integrated master schedule, contract work breakdown structure (CWBS), change management, material management, procurement, cost estimating, and accounting.  The correlation and integration of these systems and processes shall provide for early indication of cost and schedule problems, and their relation to technical achievement.  (DI-MGMT-81466A) 



Integrated Baseline Reviews (IBRs).  When applicable, the contractor shall engage jointly with the Government’s TPOC and COR in Integrated Baseline Reviews (IBRs) to evaluate the risks inherent in the contract’s planned performance baseline.  Initially, this shall occur as soon as feasible but not later than six months after task order award, and subsequently following all major changes to the baseline.  Each IBR should verify that the contractor is using a reliable performance measurement baseline, which includes the entire contract scope of work, is consistent with contract schedule requirements, and has adequate resources assigned.  Each IBR should also record any indications that effective Earned Value Management (EVM) is not being used.  IBRs should also be conducted on subcontracts that meet or exceed the EVM application threshold.  The prime contractor shall lead the subcontractor IBRs, with active participation by the Government.  (See DFARS 252.234-7002)



The Government expects the contractor to employ innovation in its proposed application of EVM techniques to this task order in accordance with best industry practices.  



H.9.4		COST ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS



Contractors are required to have an adequate cost accounting system for Cost Reimbursement type task orders in accordance with FAR 16.301-3(a)(1).  The contractor must maintain a cost accounting system which is determined to be adequate by a cognizant auditing agency.  The contractor shall notify the CO in writing, if there are any changes in the status of their cost accounting system and provide the reason(s) for the change.



H.10		CONTRACTOR TRAINING



The contractor shall provide fully trained and experienced technical and lead personnel required for performance.  Training of Contractor personnel shall be performed by the contractor at the contractor's own expense, except:  a) When the Government has given prior approval for training to meet special requirements that are peculiar to the Contract; b) Limited training of Contractor employee(s) may be authorized when the Government changes the hardware and/or software during performance of an on-going task and it is determined to be in the best interest of the Government.  The Government will not authorize training for Contractor employees to attend seminars, Symposia, or User Group Conferences, unless certified by the contractor and the GSA client agency/organization that attendance is mandatory for the performance of the contract’s requirements. When training is authorized by the COR in writing under the conditions set forth above, the Government will reimburse the contractor for tuition, travel, and per diem, if required.  Training at Government expense will not be authorized for replacement personnel nor for the purpose of keeping Contractor personnel abreast of advances in the state-of-the-art or for training Contractor employees on equipment, computer languages, and computer operating systems that are available on the commercial market.



H.11		contractor conduct



Contractor employees shall comply with base Operations Plans and Instructions for Force Protection Conditions (FPCON) procedures, Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAMS) and local search and identification requirements.  The contractor shall safeguard all Government property.  At the close of each work period, Government training, equipment, facilities, support equipment, and other valuable materials are to be secured.



H.12		facility access



The contractor shall have access as needed to all Government-furnished facilities in accordance with AR 190-51 (Security of Unclassified Army Property (Sensitive and Non Sensitive)), AR 380-5 (Department of the Army Information Security Program), and any applicable JIEDDO regulations.  



H.12.1		Access Control



The Government will issue a Common Access Card (CAC) and other forms of DoD identification necessary to access JIEDDO and other Government facilities.  JIEDDO will also issue a Letter of Authorization (LOA) to deploying Contractor personnel.  For deployed Contractor personnel, the CAC and LOA together will authorize use of Government transportation and access to the following: on-base life support and Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) facilities, Army Post Office (APO) / Fleet Post Office (FPO) Postal Services, billeting, commissary, DFACS, excess baggage, Government furnished meals, military clothing, military issued equipment, resuscitative care, authorized weapons, DOD Issuances (DODI) essential, fuel authorized, military banking, military exchange, Milair, and transportation. 



The contractor shall develop and implement procedures to ensure that metal and electronic keys, to include common access cards, received from the Government are accountable, controlled, and safeguarded in accordance with above regulations.  



H.12.2		Visitor Group Security Agreement (VGSA)



The contractor shall enter into a Visitor Group Security Agreement for performance on base.  The contractor shall integrate security requirements with its contract operations to ensure efficient contract support on the installation.



H.13		SECURITY REQUIREMENTS



This is a Department of Defense (DoD) work effort involving access to and the safeguarding of classified information/material.  The security policies, procedures and requirements stipulated in the National Industrial Security Program (NISP), National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) and any supplements thereto are applicable, including applicable Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations (DFARS).   The contractor shall also comply with DoD 5200.1-R and Army security regulations and guidance. 



Contract work at Contractor facilities may require access to Contractor-owned spaces to secure classified material in accordance with the DD254 (see attachment C).  When required by task order, the contractor shall provide appropriately cleared office facilities within close proximity of the COIC office.  Specific work shall be performed at JIEDDO-COIC facilities in the Metropolitan Washington D.C. area.  With oversight from proper Government authorities, the contractor may be required to operate secure facilities in designated anonymous locales.  Unclassified and classified IT and communications support and maintenance will be provided by the Government.



The contractor shall meet the Government personnel security, information security and physical security requirements at Contractor sites, Government CONUS and OCONUS facilities. Specifically, the contractor shall have a current Top Secret facility clearance.  



All contractor personnel working in a COIC designated space are required to:



Have undergone an SSBI or SSBI-PR within the last five (5) years that was favorably adjudicated; 

Have no break, greater than 24 months, in military service, federal civilian employment or access to classified information under the Industrial Security Program; 

Possess a current Top Secret security determination;  

Possess a Sensitive Compartmented Information determination reflected in the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS).



In order to report to COIC designated spaces for the first day of employment, contractor personnel must possess a current TS clearance with a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) determination reflected in JPAS and be formally nominated by their company's security office to be indoctrinated into SCI programs. 



If any contracted personnel are unable to obtain a Top Secret clearance with access to SCI within 30 calendar days of initiating support under this contract, the contractor shall: 



Notify the government; and,

Terminate billing for the employee against the contract.



If any contracted personnel employed by the contractor in support of this contract, fail to maintain the required security clearance or access, the contractor shall:



Notify the government of this discrepancy; and,

Remove the employee from the COIC designated site; and,

Terminate billing for the employee against the contract.



The contractor shall comply with JIEDDO Classification Guide dated 14 August 2007 and subsequent versions.



The contractor’s performance shall require access from unclassified through Top Secret-Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), including SI/TK, G, and HCS, depending on the specific work that must be performed.  The contractor must be ICD 704 eligible and must adhere to the guidelines in order to maintain eligibility and indoctrination.  The Government will execute a DoD Contract Security Classification Specification (DD Form 254) to allow the contractor the following accesses:



Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information

Classified ADP Processing

Open Source/Unclassified data.



Each Contractor personnel, to include any subcontractors, shall be the subject of a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) (with Periodic Reinvestigations based on an SBPR/PPR every five years) and granted a TS/SCI security clearance.  It is incumbent upon the contractor to ensure that the necessary security paperwork is submitted in sufficient time to enable each individual Contractor to be cleared prior to beginning work on this contract.



All personnel that require a permanent badge or access to the LAN must be on the Personnel Management Roster (PMR) and attend Newcomer’s Orientation.  In addition, all such Contractors must out-process through the JIEDDO Human Resources (HR) and security departments.  The contractor shall return all badges, keys and equipment to the site.



The contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees return security identification badges and picture identification cards to the Government at the completion of their employment.  An employment/installation clearance form shall be developed by the contractor to include a signature block for the Government to certify that an employee has turned in all badges/government property before leaving employment on the installation.  The contractor shall ensure that security badges are turned-in to the Government within 2 work days after the employee has departed.



The contractor shall immediately report the loss or possible compromise of classified information or material to the JIEDDO TPOC or his/her designee.



Contractors who do not directly support COIC must have either a Secret or Top Secret Clearance and be approved by JIEDDO to be granted access to the COIC.



H.13.1		NISPOM REQUIREMENTS



In addition to any particular requirements prescribed by the Government’s Security representative, the contractor shall provide a security plan in accordance with the “National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual” (NISPOM) January 1995.  As appropriate, the contractor shall implement information security requirements as prescribed in AR 380-19 “Information Security”.  As required the contractor shall implement other Security Classification Guidelines, e.g., DCID (DCID) 6/3 and DCID 6/9.



H.13.2		CLASSIFIED OPERATIONS



Select Contractor personnel shall operate at Contractor and Government facilities controlled at SECRET collateral and TS/SCI.  The Government will provide appropriate Security Classification Guides (SCG) and additional instructions within the DD Form 254.  The contractor shall follow instructions for Public Release requirements and Disclosure Policy references in the DD Form 254 Contract Security Classification Specification Block 12 as well as additional security guidance and requirements in Blocks 13 and 14.



H.13.3		OPERATIONS SECURITY REVIEWS



All material produced by the contractor which will be disseminated outside of JIEDDO shall be subject to an OPSEC and Security review, to be performed by the JIEDDO OPSEC Officer prior to release.  This includes all written (hardcopy) and electronic materials produced, such as organizational press releases and marketing material. Press releases shall also be coordinated with JIEDDO STRATCOM and GSA’s Office of Public Affairs; the contractor shall notify the GSA CO of plans to issue any press release related to the contract.  Informal email correspondence does not apply; however, any and all official business correspondence that leaves the JIEDDO network should be reviewed by a Government official prior to it being sent, or as a minimum requirement, the communication should be approved by the Government.  The Government can authorize continued correspondence between the contractor working for him/her and the outside entity so as not to burden the day to day sending of electronic email, for example.  Refer to the DD Form 254 for additional information.



H.14		DEFENSE BASE ACT INSURANCE



Pursuant to FAR 28.305, Defense Base Act (DBA) insurance coverage provides workers’ compensation benefits (medical, disability, death) in the event of a work-related injury or illness outside the United States.



The Government requires that employees hired by Contractors and subcontractors who work internationally be protected by the DBA coverage, regardless of their assignment and/or location unless a waiver has been obtained by the U.S. Department of Labor.



DBA insurance shall be at no direct cost to the Government and shall be furnished to the task order Contracting Officer within 30 days of award of a task order; however, if required and approved by the CO, additional DBA riders may be charged as a direct cost to the Government.



H.15		privacy REQUIREMENTS



Work on this project may require that Contractor personnel have access to Privacy Act and other sensitive information.  The contractor shall complete a Corporate NDA statement (see attachment E).  The contractor shall adhere to the Privacy Act, Title 5 of the United States Code, section 552a and applicable GSA, DoD, and Army rules and regulations, and JIEDDO policies and procedures.  Contractor personnel shall not divulge or release privacy data or information developed or obtained in the performance of this contract, until made public or specifically authorized by the Government.  The contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce third party companies’ propriety data, other than as authorized and required in performance of this contract.  Personnel working on this project shall sign a non-disclosure agreement with the contractor immediately upon their start on the project.  The contractor’s procedures for protecting against unauthorized disclosure of information shall not require Department of Defense employees or members of the Armed Forces to relinquish control of their work product, whether classified or not, to the contractor.  



H.16		Government Liability



The Government shall not be liable for any injury to the contractor's personnel or damage to the contractor's property unless such injury or damage is due to negligence on the part of the Government and is recoverable under the Federal Torts Claims Act, or pursuant to another Federal statutory authority.



H.17		Alternate Dispute Resolution



Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures increase the opportunity for relatively inexpensive and expeditious resolution of issues in controversy. These procedures may be used at any time that the Contracting Officer has authority to resolve the issue in controversy. If the contractor submits a claim, ADR procedures may be applied to all or part of the claim. The contractor must certify its claim in accordance with FAR 33.207.  When ADR procedures are used after the issuance of a Contracting Officer's final decision, the time limitations or procedural requirements for filing an appeal of the Contracting Officer's final decision are not altered.



H.18		OMBUDSMAN



The ombudsman’s contact information is:



Name: Joseph A. Neurauter

Address: 1800 F Street, NW, Washington DC, 20405-0001 

Phone Number: (202) 219-3454

Email Address:  



H.19		Supervision of Employees



The contractor's employees shall remain under the contractor's direct supervision at all times. Although the Government will coordinate directions within the scope of the contract, detailed instruction for the contractor's employees and supervision shall remain the responsibility of the contractor. 



H.20	Insurance



The contractor shall be required to have insurance in connection with FAR 52.228-5, (Insurance – Work on a Government Installation) found in Section I. 



Workman's compensation insurance required by law of the State where performance is conducted. 

Comprehensive bodily injury insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 for each occurrence. 

Property Damage liability with a limit of not less than $100,000 for each occurrence. 

Automotive bodily injury liability insurance with limits of not less than $200,000 for each person and $500,000 for each occurrence, and property damage liability insurance with a limit of not less than $50,000 for each occurrence.



H.21		DATA RIGHTS



In order to carry out its missions and programs, it is necessary for the Government to acquire access to data produced or used in the performance of its contracts.  Such data may promote competition among suppliers, foster subsequent technological developments, meet specialized acquisition needs and ensure logistics support.  The Government expects to acquire unlimited rights in the following data:



Data first produced in the performance of the contract;

Data that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for processes delivered or furnished for use under the contract; and

All other data delivered under the contract other than limited rights data or restricted computer software. If any of the foregoing data are published copyrighted data with the notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, the Government will acquire them under a copyright license rather than with unlimited rights.



H.22		Facility Pass and Identification



The contractor shall ensure the following pass and identification items required for contract performance are obtained for Contractor employees and non-government owned vehicles. 



DD Form 1172, Application for Uniformed Services Identification Card

DD Form 2220, DoD Registered Vehicle



All Contractor employees shall obtain a Government-furnished picture identification card.  The contractor shall ensure that all Contractor personnel display at all times while in a work status some method of identifying the personnel as an employee of that Contractor.  

As required by DFAR 211.106.(September 8, 2010), the contractor’s employees shall identify themselves as contractor personnel by introducing themselves or being introduced as contractor personnel, and displaying distinguishing badges or other visible identification for meetings with Government personnel. In addition, contractor personnel shall appropriately identify themselves as contractor employees in telephone conversations and in formal and informal written correspondence.



H.23		DEPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS 



The requirements of this Contract have been identified by the U.S. Government as being essential to the mission and operational readiness of the U.S. Armed Services operating worldwide; therefore, the contractor may be required to perform this contract during crisis situations (including war or a state of emergency), contingencies or exercises in the identified area of operations, also known as theatre of operations, subject to the requirements and provisions listed below. These requirements apply to all personnel deployed to the AOR, regardless if they are temporary travelers or permanently deployed.



The contractor shall be responsible for performing all requirements of this contract notwithstanding crisis situations, contingencies or exercises, including but not limited to the existence of any state of war, whether declared or undeclared, or state of emergency, by the United States or the host nation, commencement of hostilities, internal strife, rioting, civil disturbances, or activities of any type which would endanger the welfare and security of U.S. Forces in the host nation.  Failure by the contractor to perform may subject the contractor to a termination of this contract for cause.  If a crisis situation, contingency, or exercise is determined, an equitable adjustment may be negotiated.  



Crisis situations and contingency operations shall be determined by the overseas theater Commander-in-Chief, or when Defense Readiness Condition (DEFCON) Three (3) is declared for that area.



The contractor shall ensure all employees and subcontractors participate in any necessary pre-deployment qualification training at the JIEDDO COIC and with units preparing for deployment for up to 6 weeks.  The personnel in each team shall be available for deployment or duty at other designated CONUS locations at the end of that training period.  JIEDDO shall determine the actual initial deployment dates based on mission requirements.  JIEDDO will assess individual performance during training in order to validate readiness to perform all tasks and duties.  The Government will provide the following training (as needed):



Individual pre-deployment training in accordance with DoD and U.S. Central Command requirements.

Weapons qualification training, if required by arming authorization (only if authorized by the Contracting Officer).

Technical and functional training at the JIEDDO COIC on regional operational procedures, the threat situation and all operational and intelligence tools necessary to perform duties at the JIEDDO COIC and when deployed with forward elements.



Contractor personnel shall be integrated into Government contingency plans, and afforded the same rights, privileges, protection, and priority as U.S. Government personnel.  The Government will provide security, housing, and messing facilities for Contractor personnel should conditions warrant.  The Government will issue a Common Access Card (CAC) and other forms of DoD identification necessary to access JIEDDO and other Government facilities, as required.  JIEDDO will also issue a Letter of Authorization (LOA) to deploying Contractor personnel.  For deployed Contractor personnel, the CAC and LOA together will authorize use of government transportation and access to the following: on-base life support and MWR facilities, APO/FPO Postal Services, billeting, commissary, DFACS, excess baggage, government furnished meals, military clothing, military issued equipment, resuscitative care, authorized weapons, DODI essential, fuel authorized, military banking, military exchange, Military Air, and transportation.



H.24		Contractor compliance



The contractor shall ensure that all Contractor employees, including sub-Contractors, shall comply with all guidance, instructions, and general orders applicable to U.S. Armed Forces and DOD civilians and issued by the Theater Commander or his/her representative.  This shall include any and all guidance and instructions issued based upon the need to ensure mission accomplishment, force protection and safety.



The contractor shall comply, and shall ensure that all deployed employees and agents comply, with pertinent Service and Department of Defense directives, policies, and procedures.  The contractor shall ensure compliance with all Federal statutes, judicial interpretations and international agreements (e.g., Status of Forces Agreements, Host Nation Support Agreements, etc.) applicable to U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. citizens in the area of operations.  The contract ordering Officer will resolve disputes.  Host Nation laws and existing Status of Forces Agreements may take precedence over contract requirements.



The contractor shall take actions to ensure the professional conduct of its employees and sub-Contractors.

The contractor shall promptly resolve, to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer (CO), all Contractor employee performance and conduct problems identified by the cognizant CO or Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).

The CO may direct the contractor, at the contractor's expense, to remove or replace any Contractor employee failing to adhere to instructions and general orders issued by the Theater Commander or his/her designated representative.



H.25		accounting for personnel



As directed by the CO or COR and based on instructions of the Theater Commander, the contractor shall report its employees, including third country nationals, entering and/or leaving the area of operations by name, citizenship, location, Social Security number (SSN) or other official identity document number.



H.26		THEATER risk assessment and mitigation



If a Contractor employee departs an area of operations without Contractor permission, the contractor shall ensure continued performance in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract.  If the contractor replaces an employee who departs without permission, the replacement is at Contractor expense and must be in place within two business weeks or as directed by the CO.



The contractor shall prepare plans for support of military operations as required by the contract as directed by the CO.



For badging and access purposes, the contractor shall provide the CO or COR a list of all employees (including qualified subcontractors and/or local vendors being used in the area of operations) with all required identification and documentation information. 



The contractor shall brief its employees regarding the potential danger, stress, physical hardships and field living conditions.



The contractor shall require all its employees to acknowledge in writing that they understand the danger, stress, physical hardships and field living conditions that are possible if the employee deploys in support of military operations.



The contractor shall designate a point of contact for all of its plans and operations and establish an operations center to plan and control the contractor deployment process and resolve operational issues with the deployed force.



H.27		force protection



While performing duties in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the Service / Agency (e.g., Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)) will provide force protection to Contractor employees commensurate with that given to Service/Agency civilians in the operations area.  Contractor employees should be made aware of force protection options and NOT take any actions that would put themselves in harm’s way beyond what is reasonable and expected from the conditions offered by the services.



H.28	vehicle and equipment operation in support OF DIRECTED ANALYSIS SUPPORT services



The contractor shall ensure employees possess the required civilian licenses to operate the equipment necessary to perform contract requirements in the theater of operations in accordance with the statement of work.



Before operating any military owned or leased equipment, the contractor employee shall provide proof of license (issued by an appropriate Governmental authority) to the task order CO or COR.



The Government, at its discretion, may train and license Contractor employees to operate military owned or leased equipment.



The contractor and its employees shall be held jointly and severably liable for all damages resulting from the unsafe or negligent operation of military owned or leased equipment.  



H.29		medical 



In accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41, Contractor employees deploying to the AOR either temporarily or as permanent party must be documented to be medically and psychologically fit for the performance of their duties (without limitation or need for accommodation) by a medical and dental evaluation prior to deployment.  Fitness includes but is not limited to the ability to accomplish the tasks and duties unique to a deployed environment.  Minimum standards include ability to wear respiratory protective equipment and other chemical/biological protective equipment and to take required prophylactic medications. 



All deployed personnel expected to be in theater for greater than 30 days shall undergo a Pre-Deployment Health Assessment (PDHA) by a military doctor.  The PDHA physical examination shall remain valid for 15 months from the date of the exam. 



Pre-deployment and travel medicine services for contracted employees, including immunizations, TB testing, dental panograph and evaluation of fitness, are the responsibility of the contractor – with the following exceptions:



Mission / Emergency essential Contractors are authorized Anthrax and Smallpox vaccinations,

Theater specific medical supplies and medications (anti-malarials) are authorized,

DNA serum sample may be obtained at the Military Treatment Facility Lab.



Each Contractor deployed to the AOR shall complete a Deployment Readiness Program Checklist (to be provided by Government at task order Kick Off meetings) prior to deployment.  A signature is required on the checklist by a Medical Readiness team member before the document is deemed complete.  



The contractor shall ensure that all Contractor employees are properly immunized prior to deployment as follows:



For Contractor employees expected to be deployed less than 15 days in the AOR, the following immunizations are required prior to deployment: Hepatitis A, Tetenus diphtheria or Tetenus diphtheria and Pertusis, and influenza.

For Contractor employees expected to be deployed between 15 and 30 days in the AOR, the following immunizations are required prior to deployment; Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Tetenus diphtheria or Tetenus diphtheria and Pertusis, influenza, Typhoid, Varicella, Anthrax and Smallpox. 

For Contractor employees expected to be deployed greater than 30 days in the AOR, the following immunizations are required prior to deployment; Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Tetenus diphtheria or Tetenus diphtheria and Pertusis, influenza, Typhoid, Varicella, Anthrax, Polio, MMR and Smallpox. 



When applicable, the Government may provide Contractor employees deployed in a theater of operations emergency with medical and dental care commensurate with the care provided to Department of Defense civilian deployed in the theater of operations, in accordance with applicable DOD and theater policies.



Deploying civilian Contractor personnel shall carry with them a minimum of a 90-day supply of medication they require.

 

In addition to DoD Instruction 3020.41, the contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Center – Iraq/Afghanistan (JCC‐I/A) clause 952.225‐0003, Fitness for Duty and Medical/Dental Care Limitations (April 2010), which is included below.



The contractor shall perform the requirements of this contract notwithstanding the fitness for duty of deployed employees, the provisions for care offered under this section, and redeployment of individuals determined to be unfit.  Contractor personnel who deploy for multiple tours, for more than 12 months total must be re-evaluated for fitness to deploy.  An examination will remain valid for 15 months from the date of the physical.  The contractor bears the responsibility for ensuring all employees are aware of the conditions and medical treatment available at the performance location. The contractor shall include this information and requirement in all subcontracts with performance in the theater of operations.



The contractor shall not deploy an individual with any of the following conditions unless approved by the appropriate CENTCOM Service Component (i.e. ARCENT, AFCENT, etc.) Surgeon:  Conditions which prevent the wear of personal protective equipment, including protective mask, ballistic helmet, body armor, and chemical/biological protective garments; conditions which prohibit required theater immunizations or medications; conditions or current medical treatment or medications that contraindicate or preclude the use of chemical and biological protective’s and antidotes; diabetes mellitus, Type I or II, on pharmacological therapy; symptomatic coronary artery disease, or with myocardial infarction within one year prior to deployment, or within six months of coronary artery bypass graft, coronary artery angioplasty, or stenting; morbid obesity (BMI >/= 40); dysrhythmias or arrhythmias, either symptomatic or requiring medical or electrophysiological control; uncontrolled hypertension, current heart failure, or automatic implantable defibrillator; therapeutic anticoagulation; malignancy, newly diagnosed or under current treatment, or recently diagnosed/treated and requiring frequent subspecialist surveillance, examination, and/or laboratory testing; dental or oral conditions requiring or likely to require urgent dental care within six months’ time, active orthodontic care, conditions requiring prosthodontic care, conditions with immediate restorative dentistry needs, conditions with a current requirement for oral-maxillofacial surgery; new onset (< 1 year) seizure disorder, or seizure within one year prior to deployment; history of heat stroke; Meniere’s Disease or other vertiginous/motion sickness disorder, unless well controlled on medications available in theater; recurrent syncope, ataxias, new diagnosis (< 1year) of mood disorder, thought disorder, anxiety, somatoform, or dissociative disorder, or personality disorder with  mood or thought manifestations; unrepaired hernia; tracheostomy or aphonia; renalithiasis, current; active tuberculosis; pregnancy; unclosed surgical defect, such as external fixeter placement; requirement for medical devices using AC power; HIV antibody positivity; psychotic and bipolar disorders. (Reference:  Mod 10 to USCENTCOM Individual Protection and Individual/Unit Deployment Policy, Annex Q to USF-I OPORD 10-01, FRAGO 897 to CJTF-82 OPORD 07-03, PPG-Tab A: Amplification of the Minimal Standards of Fitness for Deployment to the CENTCOM AOR).



In accordance with military directives (DoDI 3020.41, DoDI 6000.11, CFC FRAGO 09-1038, DoD PGI 225.74), resuscitative care, stabilization, hospitalization at Level III (emergency) military treatment facilities and assistance with patient movement in emergencies where loss of life, limb or eyesight could occur will be provided.  Hospitalization will be limited to emergency stabilization and short-term medical treatment with an emphasis on return to duty or placement in the patient movement system.  Subject to availability at the time of need, a medical treatment facility may provide reimbursable treatment for emergency medical or dental care such as broken bones, lacerations, broken teeth or lost fillings.



Routine and primary medical care is not authorized.  Pharmaceutical services are not authorized for routine or known, routine prescription drug needs of the individual.  Routine dental care, examinations and cleanings are not authorized.



Notwithstanding any other provision of the contract, the contractor shall be liable for any and all medically-related services or transportation rendered.  In accordance with OUSD(C) Memorandum dated 4 June 2008, the following reimbursement rates will be charged for services at all DoD deployed medical facilities.  These rates are in effect until changed by DoD direction.



Inpatient daily rate:  $2,041.00.  Date of discharge is not billed unless the patient is admitted to the hospital and discharged the same day.

Outpatient visit rate: $195.00. This includes diagnostic imaging, laboratory, pathology, and pharmacy provided at the medical facility.



H.30		passports, visa, and customs



The contractor is responsible for obtaining all passports, visas, or other documents necessary to enter and/or exit any area(s) identified by the CO for Contractor employees.  However, visas will be provided by the government when the CO determines it to be in the best interest of the government.



All Contractor employees shall be subject to the customs processing procedures, laws, agreements, and duties of the country to which they are deploying and the procedures, laws, and duties of the United States upon re-entry.



The contractor shall register all personnel with the appropriate U.S. Embassy or Consulate where possible.



H.31		living under field conditions



If requested by the contractor, the Government will provide Contractor employees deployed in the theater of operations the equivalent field living conditions, subsistence, emergency medical and dental care, sanitary facilities, mail delivery, laundry service, and other available support afforded to Government employees and military personnel in the theater of operations.  



H.32		morale, welfare, and recreation



The Government will provide Contractor employees deployed in the theater of operations morale, welfare, and recreation services commensurate with that provided to Department of Defense civilians and military personnel deployed in the theater of operations.



H.33		health and life insurance



The contractor shall ensure that health and life insurance benefits provided to its deploying employees are in effect in the theater of operations and allow traveling in military vehicles.  Insurance is available under the Defense Base Act administered by the Department of Labor. 



H.34		next of kin notification



Before deployment, the contractor shall ensure that each Contractor employee completes a DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data Card, and returns the completed form to the designated Government official.  The contractor is responsible for establishing a line of communication to notify and inform their employees’ families of the status of the employee while he/she is deployed.  The Government is responsible for ensuring that the contractor is notified of their employees’ status at the earliest possible time without compromising national security.  The Government reserves the right to notify families of Contractor employees’ status only when it is in the best interest of the Government.



H.35		return procedures



Upon notification of return, the task order TPOC may authorize and the FEDSIM COR may approve Contractor employee travel from the theater of operations to the designated individual deployment site.  The contractor shall ensure that all Government-issued clothing and equipment provided to the contractor or the contractor's employees are returned to Government control upon completion of the deployment.  The contractor shall provide the TPOC with documentation, annotated by the receiving Government official, of all clothing and equipment returns.



H.36		special legal considerations



Public Law 106-523.  Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000:  Amended Title 18, US Code, to establish Federal Jurisdiction over certain criminal offenses committed outside the United States by persons employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces, or by members of the Armed Forces who are released or separated from active duty prior to being identified and prosecuted for the commission of such offenses, and for other purposes.  



Applicability:  This Act applies to anyone who engages in conduct outside the U.S. that would constitute an offence punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, the same as if the offense had been committed within the jurisdiction of the U.S.  The person must be employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the U.S.



H.37		hardship and danger pay 



Post (Hardship) Differential and Danger (Hazard) are allowances that provide additional compensation above basic compensation in a foreign area as determined by the Department of State where civil insurrection, civil war, terrorism or wartime conditions threaten physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well being of the employee.  The contractor shall be reimbursed for payments made to its employees for danger pay, not to exceed that paid U.S. Government civilian employees, in accordance with the provisions of the Department of State Standardized Regulations (DSSR) Chapter 500 – Post (Hardship) Differential, Chapter 650 - Danger Pay Allowance, and Section 920 - Post Classification and Payment Tables, as may be amended.  Compensation to ‘Basic Compensation’ shall be only applicable to the first forty (40) hours of effort performed per week.  Hardship and danger pay shall be billed as an ODC under the Directed Analysis Support Services (SETA) contract, in accordance with G.1.1.4.



H.38		status of forceS agreement



The task order TPOC will inform the contractor of the existence of all relevant Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA) and other similar documents, and provide copies upon request.  The contractor shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary legal advice concerning the content, meaning, application, etc., of any applicable SOFAs, and similar agreements.  The contractor shall adhere to all relevant provisions of the applicable SOFAs and other similar related agreements.  The contractor shall be responsible for providing the Government with the required documentation to acquire invited Contractor or technical expert status, if required by the applicable SOFA.



H.38.1		SOFA Contract Clause - USFK Regulation 700-19, 4 June 2007



INVITED CONTRACTOR OR TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE STATUS 

UNDER U.S. - REPUBLIC OF KOREA (ROK) 



Invited Contractor (IC) and Technical Representative (TR) status shall be governed by the U.S.ROK Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) as implemented by United States Forces Korea (USFK) Regulation 700-19, which can be found under the “publications” tab on the US Forces Korea homepage .



(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“U.S. – ROK Status of Forces Agreement” (SOFA) means the Mutual Defense Treaty between the Republic of Korea and the U.S. of America, Regarding Facilities and Areas and the Status of U.S. Armed Forces in the Republic of Korea, as amended. 

“Combatant Commander” means the commander of a unified or specified combatant command established in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 161. In Korea, the Combatant Commander is the Commander, United States Pacific Command. 

“United States Forces Korea” (USFK) means the subordinate unified command through which US forces would be sent to the Combined Forces Command fighting components. 

“Commander, United States Forces Korea” (COMUSK) means the commander of all U.S. forces present in Korea. In the Republic of Korea, COMUSK also serves as Commander, Combined Forces Command (CDR CFC) and Commander, United Nations Command (CDR UNC). 

“USFK, Assistant Chief of Staff, Acquisition Management” (USFK/FKAQ) means the principal staff office to USFK for all acquisition matters and administrator of the U.S.-ROK SOFA as applied to US and Third Country contractors under the Invited Contractor (IC) and Technical Representative (TR) Program (USFK Reg 700-19). 

“Responsible Officer (RO)” means a senior DOD employee (such as a military E5 and above or civilian GS-7 and above), appointed by the USFK Sponsoring Agency (SA), who is directly responsible for determining and administering appropriate logistics support for IC/TRs during contract performance in the ROK. 



(b) IC or TR status under the SOFA is subject to the written approval of USFK, Assistant Chief of Staff, Acquisition Management (FKAQ), Unit #15237, APO AP 96205-5237. 

(c) The contracting officer will coordinate with HQ USFK/FKAQ, IAW FAR 25.8, and USFK Regulation 700-19. FKAQ will determine the appropriate contractor status under the SOFA and notify the contracting officer of that determination. 

(d) Subject to the above determination, the contractor, including its employees and lawful dependents, may be accorded such privileges and exemptions under conditions and limitations as specified in the SOFA and USFK Regulation 700-19. These privileges and exemptions may be furnished during the performance period of the contract, subject to their availability and continued SOFA status. Logistics support privileges are provided on an as-available basis to properly authorized individuals.  Some logistics support may be issued as Government Furnished Property or transferred on a reimbursable basis. 



(e) The contractor warrants and shall ensure that collectively, and individually, its officials and employees performing under this contract will not perform any contract, service, or other business activity in the ROK, except under U.S. Government contracts and that performance is IAW the SOFA. 

(f) The contractor’s direct employment of any Korean-National labor for performance of this contract shall be governed by ROK labor law and USFK regulation(s) pertaining to the direct employment and personnel administration of Korean National personnel. 

(g) The authorities of the ROK have the right to exercise jurisdiction over invited contractors and technical representatives, including contractor officials, employees and their dependents, for offenses committed in the ROK and punishable by the laws of the ROK. In recognition of the role of such persons in the defense of the ROK, they will be subject to the provisions of Article XXII, SOFA, related Agreed Minutes and Understandings. In those cases in which the authorities of the ROK decide not to exercise jurisdiction, they shall notify the U.S. military authorities as soon as possible. Upon such notification, the military authorities will have the right to exercise jurisdiction as is conferred by the laws of the U.S. 

(h) Invited contractors and technical representatives agree to cooperate fully with the USFK Sponsoring Agency (SA) and Responsible Officer (RO) on all matters pertaining to logistics support and theater training requirements. Contractors shall provide the assigned SA prompt and accurate reports of changes in employee status as required by USFK Reg 700-19. 

(i) Theater Specific Training. Training Requirements for IC/TR personnel shall be conducted in accordance with USFK Regulation 350-2 Theater Specific Required Training for all Arriving Personnel and Units Assigned to, Rotating to, or in Temporary Duty Status to USFK. IC/TR personnel shall comply with requirements of USFK Regulation 350-2. 

(j) All U.S. contractors performing work on Government classified contracts will report to the nearest Security Forces Information Security Section for the geographical area where the contract is to be performed to receive information concerning local security requirements. 

(k) Invited Contractor and Technical Representative status may be withdrawn by USFK/FKAQ upon: 

(1) Completion or termination of the contract. 

(2) Determination that the contractor or its employees are engaged in business activities in the ROK other than those pertaining to U.S. armed forces. 

(3) Determination that the contractor or its employees are engaged in practices in contravention to Korean law or USFK regulations. 



(l) It is agreed that the withdrawal of invited contractor or technical representative status, or the withdrawal of, or failure to provide any of the privileges associated therewith by the U.S. and USFK, shall not constitute grounds for excusable delay by the contractor in the performance of the contract and will not justify or excuse the contractor defaulting in the performance of this contract. Furthermore, it is agreed that withdrawal of SOFA status for reasons outlined in USFK Regulation 700-19, Section II, paragraph 6 shall not serve as a basis for the contractor filing any claims against the U.S. or USFK. Under no circumstance shall the withdrawal of SOFA Status or privileges be considered or construed as a breach of contract by the U.S. Government. 



(m) Support. 

(1) Unless the terms and conditions of this contract place the responsibility with another party, the COMUSK will develop a security plan to provide protection, through military means, of Contractor personnel engaged in the theater of operations when sufficient or legitimate civilian authority does not exist. 

(2)(i) All Contractor personnel engaged in the theater of operations are authorized resuscitative care, stabilization, hospitalization at level III military treatment facilities, and assistance with patient movement in emergencies where loss of life, limb, or eyesight could occur Hospitalization will be limited to stabilization and short-term medical treatment with an emphasis on return to duty or placement in the patient movement system. 

(ii) When the Government provides medical or emergency dental treatment or transportation of Contractor personnel to a selected civilian facility, the contractor shall ensure that the Government is reimbursed for any costs associated with such treatment or transportation. 

(iii) Medical or dental care beyond this standard is not authorized unless specified elsewhere in this contract. 

(3) Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, the contractor is responsible for all other support required for its personnel engaged in the theater of operations under this contract. 

(n) Compliance with laws and regulations. The contractor shall comply with, and shall ensure that its personnel supporting U.S Armed Forces in the Republic of Korea as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause are familiar with and comply with, all applicable _ 



(1) United States, host country, and third country national laws; 

(2) Treaties and international agreements; 

(3) United States regulations, directives, instructions, policies, and procedures; and 

(4) Orders, directives, and instructions issued by the COMUSK relating to force protection, security, health, safety, or relations and interaction with local nationals. Included in this list are force protection advisories, health advisories, area (i.e. “off-limits”), prostitution and human trafficking and curfew restrictions. 



(o) Vehicle or equipment licenses. IAW USFK Regulation 190-1, Contractor personnel shall possess the required licenses to operate all vehicles or equipment necessary to perform the contract in the theater of operations. All contractor employees/dependents must have either a Korean driver’s license or a valid international driver’s license to legally drive on Korean roads, and must have a USFK driver’s license to legally drive on USFK installations. Contractor employees/dependents will first obtain a Korean driver’s license or a valid international driver’s license then obtain a USFK driver’s license. 



(p) Evacuation. 

(1) If the COMUSK orders a non-mandatory or mandatory evacuation of some or all personnel, the Government will provide assistance, to the extent available, to United States and third country national contractor personnel. 

(2) Non-combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO). 

(i) The contractor shall designate a representative to provide contractor personnel and dependents information to the servicing NEO warden as required by direction of the Responsible Officer. 

(ii) If contract period of performance in the Republic of Korea is greater than six months, non emergency essential contractor personnel and all IC/TR dependents shall participate in at least one USFK sponsored NEO exercise per year. 

(q) Next of kin notification and personnel recovery. 

(1) The contractor shall be responsible for notification of the employee-designated next of kin in the event an employee dies, requires evacuation due to an injury, or is missing, captured, or abducted. 

(2) In the case of missing, captured, or abducted contractor personnel, the Government will assist in personnel recovery actions in accordance with DOD Directive 2310.2, Personnel Recovery. 

(3) IC/TR personnel shall accomplish Personnel Recovery/Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (PR/SERE) training in accordance with USFK Reg 525-40, Personnel Recovery Procedures and USFK Reg 350-2 Theater Specific Required Training for all Arriving Personnel and Units Assigned to, Rotating to, or in Temporary Duty Status to USFK. 



(r) Mortuary affairs. Mortuary affairs for contractor personnel who die while providing support in the theater of operations to U.S. Armed Forces will be handled in accordance with DOD Directive 1300.22, Mortuary Affairs Policy and Army Regulation 638-2, Care and Disposition of Remains and Disposition of Personal Effects. 

(s) USFK Responsible Officer (RO). The USFK appointed RO will ensure all IC/TR personnel complete all applicable training as outlined in this clause. 

(End of Clause)



H.38.2		Germany SOFA Status Provisions



The contractor shall comply with Army in Europe Regulation 715-9 “Contractor Personnel in Germany – Technical Expert, Troop Care, and Analytical Support Personnel”, USAR Regulation 600-700,  “Identification Cards and Individual Logistics Support”, and guidance provided on DOCPER and USA Europe Civilian Personnel Directorate websites for SOFA and TESA status.  

The DoD Contractor Personnel Officer (DOCPER) implements the Agreements of 27 March 1998, and the Agreements of 29 June 2001, signed by the U.S. Embassy and German Foreign Ministry, establishing bilateral implementation of Articles 72 and 73 of the Supplementary Agreement (SA) to the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. These two Articles govern the use in Germany of DOD contractor employees as Technical Experts (TE), Troop Care (TC) providers, and Analytical Support (AS) contractor personnel.  Contracts that propose to employ TE, TC providers, or AS personnel in Germany, and the applications of individuals seeking TE/TC/AS status under those contracts, are submitted through DOCPER.  DOCPER website  provides guidance for DoD Contractors for SOFA and TESA status. 



H.39	PROHIBITIONS AGAINST HUMAN TRAFFICKING, INHUMANE LIVING CONDITIONS, AND WITHOLDING OF EMPLOYEE PASSPORTS



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC I/A Clause 952.222-0001 as stated below:



(a)  All contractors (“contractors” refers to both prime contractors and all subcontractors at all tiers) are reminded of the prohibition contained in Title 18, United States Code, Section 1592, against knowingly destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or possessing any actual or purported passport or other immigration document, or any other actual or purported government identification document, of another person, to prevent or restrict or to attempt to prevent or restrict, without lawful authority, the person’s liberty to move or travel, in order to maintain the labor or services of that person, when the person is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. 



(b)  Contractors are also required to comply with the following provisions:



(1)  Contractors shall only hold employee passports and other identification documents discussed above for the shortest period of time reasonable for administrative processing purposes.



(2)  Contractors shall provide all employees with a signed copy of their employment contract, in English as well as the employee’s native language that defines the terms of their employment/compensation.



(3)  Contractors shall not utilize unlicensed recruiting firms, or firms that charge illegal recruiting fees.



(4)  Contractors shall be required to provide adequate living conditions (sanitation, health, safety, living space) for their employees.  Fifty square feet is the minimum acceptable square footage of personal living space per employee.  Upon contractor’s written request, contracting officers may grant a waiver in writing in cases where the existing square footage is within 20% of the minimum, and the overall conditions are determined by the contracting officer to be acceptable.  A copy of the waiver approval shall be maintained at the respective life support area.



(5)  Contractors shall incorporate checks of life support areas to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Trafficking in Persons Prohibition into their Quality Control program, which will be reviewed within the Government’s Quality Assurance process.



(6)  Contractors shall comply with international laws regarding transit/exit/entry procedures, and the requirements for work visas.  Contractors shall follow all Host Country entry and exit requirements, including requirements for visas and work permits.  



(c)  Contractors have an affirmative duty to advise the Contracting Officer if they learn of their employees violating the human trafficking and inhumane living conditions provisions contained herein.  Contractors are advised that contracting officers and/or their representatives will conduct random checks to ensure contractors and subcontractors at all tiers are adhering to the law on human trafficking, humane living conditions and withholding of passports.



(d)  The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph, in all subcontracts under his contract.



H.40		REPORTING KIDNAPPINGS, SERIOUS INJURIES AND DEATHS



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.223-0001 as stated below:



Contractors shall notify the Contracting Officer, as soon as practicable, whenever

employee kidnappings, serious injuries or deaths occur.



Report the following information:



Contract Number

Contract Description & Location

Company Name



Reporting party:

Name

Phone number

e-mail address



Victim:

Name

Gender (Male/Female)

Age

Nationality

Country of permanent residence



Incident:

Description

Location

Date and time

Other Pertinent Information



H.41		COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-0004 (Jan 2010) as stated below:



(a)  The contractor shall comply with, and shall ensure that its employees and its subcontractors and their employees, at all tiers, are aware of and obey all U.S. and Host Nation laws, Federal or DoD regulations, and Central Command orders and directives applicable to personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan, including but not limited to USCENTCOM, Multi-National Force and Multi-National Corps operations and fragmentary orders, instructions, policies and directives.



(b)  Contractor employees shall particularly note all laws, regulations, policies, and orders restricting authority to carry firearms, rules for the use of force, and prohibiting sexual or aggravated assault.  Contractor employees are subject to General Orders Number 1, as modified from time to time, including without limitation, their prohibition on privately owned firearms, alcohol, drugs, war souvenirs, pornography and photographing detainees, human casualties or military security measures.



(c)  Contractor employees may be ordered removed from secure military installations or the theater of operations by order of the senior military commander of the battle space for acts that disrupt good order and discipline or violate applicable laws, regulations, orders, instructions, policies, or directives.  Contractors shall immediately comply with any such order to remove its contractor employee. 

 

(d)  Contractor employees performing in the USCENTCOM Area of Responsibility (AOR) may be subject to the jurisdiction of overlapping criminal codes, including, but not limited to, the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (18 U.S.C. Sec. 3261, et al) (MEJA), the Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. Sec. 801, et al)(UCMJ), and the laws of the Host Nation.  Non-US citizens may also be subject to the laws of their home country while performing in the USCENTCOM AOR.  Contractor employee status in these overlapping criminal jurisdictions may be modified from time to time by the United States, the Host Nation, or by applicable status of forces agreements.



(e)  Under MEJA, a person who engages in felony misconduct outside the United States while employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces is subject to arrest, removal and prosecution in United States federal courts.  Under the UCMJ, a person serving with or accompanying the Armed Forces in the field during a declared war or contingency operation may be disciplined for a criminal offense, including by referral of charges to a General Court Martial.  Contractor employees may be ordered into confinement or placed under conditions that restrict movement within the AOR or administratively attached to a military command pending resolution of a criminal investigation.



(f)  Contractors shall immediately notify military law enforcement and the Contracting Officer if they suspect an employee has committed an offense.  Contractors shall take any and all reasonable and necessary measures to secure the presence of an employee suspected of a serious felony offense.  Contractors shall not knowingly facilitate the departure of an employee suspected of a serious felony offense or violating the Rules for the Use of Force to depart Iraq or Afghanistan without approval from the senior U.S. commander in the country.



H.42		MONTHLY CONTRACTOR CENSUS REPORTING



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-0005 as stated below:



The contractor shall provide monthly employee census information to the Contracting Officer, by province, for this contract.  Information shall be submitted either electronically or by hard-copy. Information shall be current as of the 25th day of each month and received by the Contracting Officer no later than the first day of the following month. The following information shall be provided for each province in which work was performed:

(1) The total number (prime and subcontractors at all tiers) employees.

(2) The total number (prime and subcontractors at all tiers) of U.S. citizens.

(3) The total number (prime and subcontractors at all tiers) of local nationals (LN).

(4) The total number (prime and subcontractors at all tiers) of third-country nationals (TCN).

(5) Name of province in which the work was performed.

(6) The names of all company employees who enter and update employee data in the Synchronized Predeployment & Operational Tracker (SPOT) in accordance with DFARS 252.225-7040 or DFARS DOD class deviation 2007-O0010.



H.43		GOVERNMENT FURNISHED CONTRACTOR SUPPORT



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-00011.



The following is a summary of the type of support the Government will provide the contractor, on an “as-available” basis.  In the event of any discrepancy between this summary and the description of services in the Statement of Work, this clause will take precedence.



U.S. Citizens Accompanying the Force



 APO/FPO/MPO/Postal Services	 DFACs				 Mil Issue Equip

 Authorized Weapon		 Excess Baggage			 MILAIR

 Billeting			 Fuel Authorized			 MWR 

 CAAF				 Govt Furnished Meals		 Resuscitative Care

 Controlled Access Card (CAC)/ID Card	 Military Banking			 Transportation

 Commissary			 Military Clothing			 All

 Dependents Authorized		 Military Exchange			 None



Third-Country National (TCN) Employees



 APO/FPO/MPO/Postal Services		 DFACs		 Mil Issue Equip

 Authorized Weapon			 Excess Baggage	 MILAIR

 Billeting				 Fuel Authorized	 MWR 

 CAAF				 Gov Furnished Meals	 Resuscitative Care

 Controlled Access Card (CAC)/ID Card	 Military Banking	 Transportation

 Commissary				 Military Clothing	 All

 Dependents Authorized		 Military Exchange	 None



Local National (LN) Employees



 APO/FPO/MPO/Postal Services		 DFACs		 Mil Issue Equip

 Authorized Weapon			 Excess Baggage	 MILAIR

 Billeting				 Fuel Authorized	 MWR 

 CAAF				 Govt Furnished Meals	 Resuscitative Care

 Controlled Access Card (CAC)/ID Card	 Military Banking	 Transportation

 Commissary				 Military Clothing	 All

 Dependents Authorized		 Military Exchange	 None



H.44		CONTRACTOR HEALTH AND SAFETY



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-0013.



(a) Contractors shall comply with all National Electrical Code (NEC 2008), Specifications as outlined, and MIL Standards and Regulations.  All infrastructure to include, but not limited to, living quarters, showers, and restrooms shall be installed and maintained in compliance with these standards and must be properly supported and staffed to ensure perpetual Code compliance, prevent hazards and to quickly correct any hazards to maximize safety of those who use or work at the infrastructure (NEC Table 352.20).  Specifically, the use of magnetic ballasts in lighting for new construction or replacement of existing magnetic ballasts during refurbishment, alterations or upgrades with new magnetic ballasts is prohibited.  The government has the authority to enter and inspect contractor employee living quarters at any time to ensure the prime contractor is complying with safety compliance standards outlined in the 2008 National Electric Code (NEC).



(b)  The contractor shall correct all deficiencies within a reasonable amount of time of contractor becoming aware of the deficiency either by notice from the government or a third party, or discovery by the contractor.  Further guidance on mandatory compliance with NFPA 70: NEC 2008 can be found on the following link .



H.45	CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO ACCOMPANY U.S. ARMED FORCES DEPLOYED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES (JUL 2009)



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-7040.

(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause—

“Combatant Commander” means the commander of a unified or specified  combatant command established in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 161.

“Designated operational area” means a geographic area designated by the combatant commander or subordinate joint force commander for the conduct or support of specified military operations.

“Law of war” means that part of international law that regulates the conduct of armed hostilities.  The law of war encompasses all international law for the conduct of hostilities binding on the United States or its individual citizens, including treaties and international agreements to which the United States is a party, and applicable customary international law.

“Subordinate joint force commander” means a sub-unified commander or joint task force commander.  

(b)  General.  

(1)  This clause applies when Contractor personnel are authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States in—

	(i)  Contingency operations

	(ii)  Humanitarian or peacekeeping operations; or

(iii)  Other military operations or military exercises, when designated by the Combatant Commander.



(2)  Contract performance in support of U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States may require work in dangerous or austere conditions.  Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the contractor accepts the risks associated with required contract performance in such operations.



(3)  Contractor personnel are civilians accompanying the U.S. Armed Forces.

(i)  Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this clause, Contractor personnel are only authorized to use deadly force in self-defense.

(ii)  Contractor personnel performing security functions are also authorized to use deadly force when such force reasonably appears necessary to execute their security mission to protect assets/persons, consistent with the terms and conditions contained in their contract or with their job description and terms of employment.

(iii)  Unless immune from host nation jurisdiction by virtue of an international agreement or international law, inappropriate use of force by contractor personnel authorized to accompany the U.S. Armed Forces can subject such personnel to United States or host nation prosecution and civil liability (see paragraphs (d) and (j)(3) of this clause).

(4)  Service performed by Contractor personnel subject to this clause is not active duty or service under 38 U.S.C. 106 note.	

(c)  Support.

(1)	(i)  The Combatant Commander will develop a security plan for protection of Contractor personnel in locations where there is not sufficient or legitimate civil authority, when the Combatant Commander decides it is in the interests of the Government to provide security because—

(A)  The contractor cannot obtain effective security services;

		(B)  Effective security services are unavailable at a reasonable cost; or 

		(C)  Threat conditions necessitate security through military means.  

(ii)  The Contracting Officer shall include in the contract the level of protection to be provided to Contractor personnel.  

(iii)  In appropriate cases, the Combatant Commander may provide security through military means, commensurate with the level of security provided DoD civilians.

(2)	(i)  Generally, all Contractor personnel authorized to accompany the U.S. Armed Forces in the designated operational area are authorized to receive resuscitative care, stabilization, hospitalization at level III military treatment facilities, and assistance with patient movement in emergencies where loss of life, limb, or eyesight could occur.  Hospitalization will be limited to stabilization and short-term medical treatment with an emphasis on return to duty or placement in the patient movement system.

(ii)  When the Government provides medical treatment or transportation of Contractor personnel to a selected civilian facility, the contractor shall ensure that the Government is reimbursed for any costs associated with such treatment or transportation.

(iii)  Medical or dental care beyond this standard is not authorized unless specified elsewhere in this contract.

(3)  Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, the contractor is responsible for all other support required for its personnel engaged in the designated operational area under this contract.

(4)  Contractor personnel must have a letter of authorization issued by the Contracting Officer in order to process through a deployment center or to travel to, from, or within the designated operational area.  The letter of authorization also will identify any additional authorizations, privileges, or Government support that Contractor personnel are entitled to under this contract.

 (d)  Compliance with laws and regulations.  

(1)  The contractor shall comply with, and shall ensure that its personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause are familiar with and comply with, all applicable—

(i)  United States, host country, and third country national laws;

(ii)   Provisions of the law of war, as well as any other applicable treaties and international agreements;

(iii)  United States regulations, directives, instructions, policies, and procedures; and

(iv)  Orders, directives, and instructions issued by the Combatant Commander, including those relating to force protection, security, health, safety, or relations and interaction with local nationals.  

(2)  The contractor shall institute and implement an effective program to prevent violations of the law of war by its employees and subcontractors, including law of war training in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this clause.  

(e)  Pre-deployment requirements.  

(1)  The contractor shall ensure that the following requirements are met prior to deploying personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces.  Specific requirements for each category may be specified in the statement of work or elsewhere in the contract.

(i)  All required security and background checks are complete and acceptable.

(ii)  All deploying personnel meet the minimum medical screening requirements and have received all required immunizations as specified in the contract.  The Government will provide, at no cost to the contractor, any theater-specific immunizations and/or medications not available to the general public.

(iii)  Deploying personnel have all necessary passports, visas, and other documents required to enter and exit a designated operational area and have a Geneva Conventions identification card, or other appropriate DoD identity credential, from the deployment center.  Any Common Access Card issued to deploying personnel shall contain the access permissions allowed by the letter of authorization issued in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this clause.

(iv)  Special area, country, and theater clearance is obtained for personnel.  Clearance requirements are in DoD Directive 4500.54, Official Temporary Duty Abroad, and DoD 4500.54-G, DoD Foreign Clearance Guide.  Contractor personnel are considered non-DoD personnel traveling under DoD sponsorship.

(v)  All personnel have received personal security training.  At a minimum, the training shall—

		(A)  Cover safety and security issues facing employees overseas;

(B)  Identify safety and security contingency planning activities; and

(C)  Identify ways to utilize safety and security personnel and other resources appropriately.

vi)  All personnel have received isolated personnel training, if specified in the contract, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1300.23, Isolated Personnel Training for DoD Civilian and Contractors.

	(vii)  Personnel have received law of war training as follows:   

(A)  Basic training is required for all Contractor personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States.  The basic training will be provided through—

(1)  A military-run training center; or 

(2)  A web-based source, if specified in the contract or approved by the Contracting Officer.

(B)  Advanced training, commensurate with their duties and responsibilities, may be required for some Contractor personnel as specified in the contract.  

(2)  The contractor shall notify all personnel who are not a host country national, or who are not ordinarily resident in the host country, that—

(i)  Such employees, and dependents residing with such employees, who engage in conduct outside the United States that would constitute an offense punishable by imprisonment for more than one year if the conduct had been engaged in within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, may potentially be subject to the criminal jurisdiction of the United States in accordance with the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (18 U.S.C. 3621, et seq.);

(ii)  Pursuant to the War Crimes Act (18 U.S.C. 2441), Federal criminal jurisdiction also extends to conduct that is determined to constitute a war crime when committed by a civilian national of the United States;

(iii)  Other laws may provide for prosecution of U.S. nationals who commit offenses on the premises of U.S. diplomatic, consular, military or other U.S. Government missions outside the United States (18 U.S.C. 7(9)); and    

(iv)  In time of declared war or a contingency operation, Contractor personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces in the field are subject to the jurisdiction of the Uniform Code of Military Justice under 10 U.S.C. 802(a)(10).

(f)  Processing and departure points.  

Deployed Contractor personnel shall—

(1)  Process through the deployment center designated in the contract, or as otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, prior to deploying.  The deployment center will conduct deployment processing to ensure visibility and accountability of Contractor personnel and to ensure that all deployment requirements are met, including the requirements specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause;

(2)  Use the point of departure and transportation mode directed by the Contracting Officer; and

(3)  Process through a Joint Reception Center (JRC) upon arrival at the deployed location.  The JRC will validate personnel accountability, ensure that specific designated operational area entrance requirements are met, and brief Contractor personnel on theater-specific policies and procedures.

(g)  Personnel data.  

(1)  The contractor shall enter before deployment and maintain data for all Contractor personnel that are authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause.  The contractor shall use the Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) web-based system, at , to enter and maintain the data. 

(2)  The contractor shall ensure that all employees in the database have a current DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data Card, on file with both the contractor and the designated Government official.  The Contracting Officer will inform the contractor of the Government official designated to receive this data card.

(h)  Contractor personnel.  

(1)  The Contracting Officer may direct the contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any Contractor personnel who jeopardize or interfere with mission accomplishment or who fail to comply with or violate applicable requirements of this contract.  Such action may be taken at the Government’s discretion without prejudice to its rights under any other provision of this contract, including the Termination for Default clause.

(2)  The contractor shall have a plan on file showing how the contractor would replace employees who are unavailable for deployment or who need to be replaced during deployment.  The contractor shall keep this plan current and shall provide a copy to the Contracting Officer upon request.  The plan shall—

(i)  Identify all personnel who are subject to military mobilization;

(ii)  Detail how the position would be filled if the individual were mobilized; and

(iii)  Identify all personnel who occupy a position that the Contracting Officer has designated as mission essential.

(3)  Contractor personnel shall report to the Combatant Commander or a designee, or through other channels such as the military police, a judge advocate, or an inspector general, any suspected or alleged conduct for which there is credible information that such conduct—

(i)  Constitutes violation of the law of war; or

(ii)  Occurred during any other military operations and would constitute a violation of the law of war if it occurred during an armed conflict.

(i)  Military clothing and protective equipment.  

(1)  Contractor personnel are prohibited from wearing military clothing unless specifically authorized in writing by the Combatant Commander.  If authorized to wear military clothing, Contractor personnel must—

(i)  Wear distinctive patches, arm bands, nametags, or headgear, in order to be distinguishable from military personnel, consistent with force protection measures; and

	(ii)  Carry the written authorization with them at all times.

(2)  Contractor personnel may wear military-unique organizational clothing and individual equipment (OCIE) required for safety and security, such as ballistic, nuclear, biological, or chemical protective equipment.

(3)  The deployment center, or the Combatant Commander, shall issue OCIE and shall provide training, if necessary, to ensure the safety and security of Contractor personnel.

(4)  The contractor shall ensure that all issued OCIE is returned to the point of issue, unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer.

(j)  Weapons. 

(1)  If the contractor requests that its personnel performing in the designated operational area be authorized to carry weapons, the request shall be made through the Contracting Officer to the Combatant Commander, in accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41, paragraph 6.3.4.1 or, if the contract is for security services, paragraph 6.3.5.3.  The Combatant Commander will determine whether to authorize in-theater Contractor personnel to carry weapons and what weapons and ammunition will be allowed.

(2)  If the Contracting Officer, subject to the approval of the Combatant Commander, authorizes the carrying of weapons—

(i)  The Contracting Officer may authorize the contractor to issue Contractor-owned weapons and ammunition to specified employees; or 

(ii)  The [Contracting Officer to specify the appropriate individual, e.g., Contracting Officer’s Representative, Regional Security Officer] may issue Government-furnished weapons and ammunition to the contractor for issuance to specified Contractor employees.

(3)  The contractor shall ensure that its personnel who are authorized to carry weapons—

(i)  Are adequately trained to carry and use them—

		(A)  Safely;

(B)  With full understanding of, and adherence to, the rules of the use of force issued by the Combatant Commander; and

(C)  In compliance with applicable agency policies, agreements, rules, regulations, and other applicable law;

	(ii)  Are not barred from possession of a firearm by 18 U.S.C. 922; and

(iii)  Adhere to all guidance and orders issued by the Combatant Commander regarding possession, use, safety, and accountability of weapons and ammunition.

(4)  Whether or not weapons are Government-furnished, all liability for the use of any weapon by Contractor personnel rests solely with the contractor and the contractor employee using such weapon.

(5)  Upon redeployment or revocation by the Combatant Commander of the contractor’s authorization to issue firearms, the contractor shall ensure that all Government-issued weapons and unexpended ammunition are returned as directed by the Contracting Officer.

(k)  Vehicle or equipment licenses.  

Contractor personnel shall possess the required licenses to operate all vehicles or equipment necessary to perform the contract in the designated operational area.

(l)  Purchase of scarce goods and services.  

If the Combatant Commander has established an organization for the designated operational area whose function is to determine that certain items are scarce goods or services, the contractor shall coordinate with that organization local purchases of goods and services designated as scarce, in accordance with instructions provided by the Contracting Officer.

(m)  Evacuation.  

(1)  If the Combatant Commander orders a mandatory evacuation of some or all personnel, the Government will provide assistance, to the extent available, to United States and third country national Contractor personnel.

(2)  In the event of a non-mandatory evacuation order, unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the contractor shall maintain personnel on location sufficient to meet obligations under this contract.

(n)  Next of kin notification and personnel recovery.  

(1)  The contractor shall be responsible for notification of the employee-designated next of kin in the event an employee dies, requires evacuation due to an injury, or is isolated, missing, detained, captured, or abducted.

(2)  In the case of isolated, missing, detained, captured, or abducted Contractor personnel, the Government will assist in personnel recovery actions in accordance with DoD Directive 3002.01E, Personnel Recovery in the Department of Defense.

(o)  Mortuary affairs.  

Mortuary affairs for Contractor personnel who die while accompanying the U.S. Armed Forces will be handled in accordance with DoD Directive 1300.22, Mortuary Affairs Policy. 

(p)  Changes.  

In addition to the changes otherwise authorized by the Changes clause of this contract, the Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order identified as a change order, make changes in the place of performance or Government-furnished facilities, equipment, material, services, or site.  Any change order issued in accordance with this paragraph (p) shall be subject to the provisions of the Changes clause of this contract.

(q)  Subcontracts.  

The contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (q), in all subcontracts when subcontractor personnel are authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States in—

(1)  Contingency operations;

(2)  Humanitarian or peacekeeping operations; or

(3)  Other military operations or military exercises, when designated by the Combatant Commander.

(End of clause)

H.46	ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITES RELATING TO ALLEGED CRIMES BY OR AGAINST CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL IN IRAQ OR AFGHANISTAN (Deviation) (Dec 2009)



The contractor shall comply with Joint Contracting Command Iraq/Afghanistan Acquisition Guide (May 2010) JCC-IA Clause 952.225-7997. 



 (a)   The contractor shall report to the appropriate investigative authorities any alleged offenses under-­

(1)   The Uniform Code of Military Justice (chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code) (applicable to contractors serving with or accompanying an armed force in the field during a declared war or a contingency operation); or 

(2)  The Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (chapter 212 of title 18, United States Code). 

(b)  The contractor shall provide to all contractor personnel who will perform work on a contract in Iraq or Afghanistan, before beginning such work, information on the following: 

(1)   How and where to report an alleged crime described in paragraph (a) of this clause. 

(2)   Where to seek victim and witness protection and assistance available to contractor personnel in connection with an alleged offense described in paragraph (a) of this clause. 



(End of clause)



H.47		IDIQ TASK ORDER PROCESS



This is a multiple-award contract.  A Task Order will be used to order services provided under this IDIQ contract following a competitive process.  One or more tasks may be issued during the performance period of this IDIQ contract; it is understood and agreed that the Government has no obligation to issue any more than one (1) task order.  Warranted Contracting Officers of the General Services Administration/Federal Acquisition Service are authorized ordering officers. Services to be furnished under this contract shall be furnished at such times as ordered by the issuance of the task order by the Contracting Officer.  All orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. This contract shall control in the event of conflict with any task order. 



H.47.1   	Task Order Request (TOR)



A TOR will be used to solicit proposals under this contract.  Each individual TOR may be Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP), cost plus or any combination of the two.  The TOR may include specific metrics and quality assurance methods (if applicable).  The TOR may also include provisions for incentive fee, award fee or fixed fee.



Unless an exception to fair opportunity applies, all IDIQ contract holders will receive each TOR issued by a GSA warranted Contracting Officer.  



All TORs will incorporate all terms and conditions of the IDIQ.  In addition, the proposed TOR will normally include the following to the extent applicable to individual TOs:



A SOW or PBSOW describing the work to be performed, the deliverables, the period of performance, Government Point(s) of Contact, description of marking information, data rights, inspection and acceptance of services, security requirements, and Government Furnished Information / Property, as applicable.



The submission date/time and the method of delivery for proposals.



Specific instructions on what to include in the proposal submission. This may include, but is not limited to, oral presentations and written responses summarizing technical and price approaches.



Evaluation factors and their relative order of importance.



Other information deemed appropriate.



H.47.2   	Proposal Submission



IDIQ Contract awardees shall be capable of providing a proposal within two (2) work days for urgent requirements.  For non-urgent requirements, the IDIQ Contract awardees shall submit proposals within timeframes specified in the individual task orders.  At a minimum the proposal shall include:



Price: The proposal may include a detailed cost breakout of all labor required to accomplish the tasks as set forth in the TOR or be a fixed price proposal with sufficient information to substantiate the price proposed.  



Organizational Conflict of Interest Statement disclosing any known or expected conflicts of interest pursuant to FAR 9.5: 



However, the proposal may also require the submission of the following information (the Government is not limited to the below list and may require other information):



Technical information e.g., technical approach, including subcontractors and experience as required by the TOR.



Corporate Experience or SETA Contract Past Performance 



Proposed Key Personnel



Proposed PWS (if a Statement of Objectives is issued)





H.47.3   	Evaluation



The Government will evaluate responses against evaluation criteria contained in the proposed TOR.  The Government’s award decision will be based on best value to the Government, price and other factors considered, unless otherwise specified in the TOR.  



H.47.4   	Task Order Issuance



A task order is considered issued when it is transmitted to the contractor, signed by the GSA Contracting Officer.  Transmittal is complete when the awardee receives a notification of award from GSA’s TOS system.  A warranted GSA FAS CO shall act as the Task Order CO and is responsible for issuing any TOs placed hereunder.  The SOW / PBSOW, labor mix and hours (if applicable), and proposed costs / price for the TOR may be incorporated into any resulting task order.  The proposed technical solution may also be incorporated in the task order.  At any time during the duration of the IDIQ contract, the IDIQ CO reserves the right to revise the procedures pertaining to Task Order issuance.  Contracting Officers from GSA FAS are the only individuals that are authorized to issue TOs and obligate the Government for TOs awarded under the IDIQ contract.  TOs and modifications shall be made in writing and be signed by any authorized Warranted GSA FAS Contracting Officer.  Each TO shall, as appropriate:



Set forth a pricing schedule.



Set forth the specific level of effort and/or performance outcomes desired to be fulfilled under the task order based on the estimated dollar value and complexity of the Government’s requirement.



Designate the Task Order COR and TPOC who will perform inspection and acceptance.



Set forth any payment provisions (e.g., progress payments, milestone billings).



Be dated.



Set forth the property, if any, to be furnished by the Government and the date(s) such property is to be delivered to the contractor.



Set forth the disbursing office where payment is to be made. 



Set forth administration data (i.e. invoicing instructions).



Set forth the Government’s technical data rights.



Set forth any other pertinent information.



Unauthorized Work: The contractor is not authorized to commence task order performance prior to award of a task order.



Ordering Period: Task Orders for services specified in the PBSOW of the IDIQ contract may be issued by any Warranted Contracting Officer from GSA FAS within the ordering period of the IDIQ, up until the final day of the IDIQ contract.  Task order periods of performance shall not be longer than 5 years total and shall not extend beyond 365 days of the IDIQ contract period of performance.



H.48	   	ON-RAMP AND OPEN SEASON PROVISIONS



H.48.1		ON-RAMP



To ensure success of the JIEDDO Program, each JIEDDO contract holder is expected to participate in the ordering process by submitting proposals in response to task order requests (TORs) for which the contractor has a reasonable chance for award, to successfully perform the terms of their orders, and to promptly improve performance when it does not meet the terms of the orders or the basic contract.  



In addition, it is the Government’s intent to maintain a qualified pool of vendors to ensure a reasonable expectation that each TOR competed under the contract meets the definition for adequate price competition.  As such, if the vendor pool is diminished to a point where there is not an expectation that 3 or more responsible proposals will be received, the Government may hold an open season thereby allowing offerors to compete for new contract awards.  The vendor pool may be diminished over time through attrition, (e.g., industry consolidation without contract novation, industry consolidation by an existing JIEDDO IDIQ contract holder or other significant changes in the marketplace or advances in technology) by the Government exercising its rights under the terms and conditions of the contract or resultant task orders, or due to significant changes to the JIEDDO mission.  The need to hold open season will be at the Government’s sole discretion.



H.48.2		OPEN SEASON PROCEDURES 



If  the Contracting Officer determines that it would be in the Government’s best interest to open a new solicitation to add new contractors to the JIEDDO IDIQ Contract, the CO may do so at any time provided that:



(a)  The solicitation is issued under then-applicable federal procurement law;



(b)  The solicitation identifies the total approximate number of new awards that the Government  intends to make.  The Government may decide to award more or fewer Contracts than the number anticipated in the solicitation depending upon the overall quality of the offers received;



(c)  The award decision under any solicitation is based upon substantially the same evaluation factors/sub-factors as the original solicitation;



(d)  The terms and conditions of any resulting awards from a new solicitation are materially identical to the Basic Contract as modified.



(e)  The term for any such new awards from a solicitation is co-terminus with the existing term for all other JIEDDO contracts including the option period (if applicable);



(f)  The award of any new Contract(s) does not increase the overall ceiling of the Basic Contract already awarded.









I.1	52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (Jun 1988)



This Contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a provision may be accessed electronically at this address:  



FAR website:  

GSAM website: 



I.1.1		FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES



CLAUSE NO		CLAUSE TITLE						DATE                 

52.202-1		Definitions							(Jul 2004)

52.203-3		Gratuities							(Apr 1984)

52.203-5		Covenant against Contingent Fees				(Apr 1984)	

52.203-6		Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government	(Sep 2006)

52.203-7		Anti-Kickback Procedures					(Oct 2010)

52.203-8		Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery 			

                  		Of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity			(Jan 1997)

52.203-10		Price or Fee Adjustment of Illegal or Improper Activity	(Jan 1997)	

52.203-12		Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal	(Oct 2010)

			Transactions

52.203-13		Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct		(Apr 2010)

52.203-14		Display of Hotline Poster(s)					(Dec 2007)

52.204-2		Security Requirements					(Aug 1996)

52.204-3		Taxpayer Identification                                  			(Oct 1998)

52.204-4		Printing/copying double-Sided on Recycled Paper		(Aug 2000)

52.204-7		Central Contractor Registration                     			(Apr 2008)

52.209-6		Protecting the Government’s Interest when Subcontracting	(Sep 2006)

			With Contractor’s Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for

			Debarment

52.211-6		Brand Name or Equal						(Aug 1999)

52.211-14		Notice of Priority Rating for National Defense, 

Emergency Preparedness and Energy Use Program		(Apr 2008)

52.215-2		Audit and Records – Negotiation with Alternate III		(Oct 2010)

52.215-8		Order of Precedence Uniform Contract Format		(Oct 1997)	

			Modification

52.215-19		Notification of Ownership Changes				 (Oct 1997)

52.215-20		Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information

			Other Than Cost or Pricing Data				(Oct 2010)

52.215-20		Alternate							(Oct 2010)	

52.216-1		Type of Contract (Fill In.  Firm Fixed Price, 

			Cost plus)							(Apr 1984)

52.216-7  		Allowable Cost and Payment 					(Dec 2002)

52.216-8  		Fixed Fee 							(Mar 1997)

52.216-10 		Incentive Fee 							(Mar 1997)

52.217-5		Payment of Options						(Jul 1990)

52.217-8		Option to Extend Services (Fill in, 30 days, 

			Prior to contract expiration) 					(Nov 1999)

52.217-9		Option To Extend the Term of the Contract 90 Days		(Mar 2000)

52.219-1		Small Business Program Representations			(May 2004)

52.219-6 		Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside			(June 2003)

52.219-8		Utilization of Small Business Concerns			(May 2004)

52.219-9		Small Business Subcontracting Plan				(Oct 2010)

52.219-14		Limitations on Subcontracting 				(Dec 1996)

52.222-2		Payment of Overtime Premiums				(Jul 1990)

52.222-3		Convict Labor							(Jun 2003)

52.222-19		Child Labor – Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies 	(Jul 2010)

52.222-21		Prohibition of Segregated Facilities				(Feb 1999)

52.222-24		Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance 

			Evaluation							(Feb 1999)

52.222-26		Equal Opportunity						(Mar 2007)

52.222-35		Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled and Vietnam	(Sep 2010)

Era Veterans

52.222-36		Affirmative Action for Handicapped Workers		(Jun 1998)	

52.222-37		Employment reports on Special Disabled Veterans and	

 			Veterans of the Vietnam Era					(Dec 2001)

52.222-50		Combating Trafficking in Persons				(Feb 2009)

52.223-6		Drug Free Workplace						(May 2001)

52.223-16 		IEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of

			Personal Computer Products					(Dec 2007)

52.225-2		Buy America Act Certificate					(Feb 2009)

52.225-6		Trade Agreements Certificate					(Jan 2005)

52.225-13		Restriction on Certain Foreign Purchases			(Jun 2008)

52.227-14		Rights in Data – General—Alternate V			(Dec 2007)

52.227-15		Representations of limited rights Data and 

Restricted Computer Software				(Dec 2007)

52.227-23		Rights to Proposal Data (Technical)				(Jun 1987)

52.228-3		Worker’s Compensation Insurance (Defense Base Act)	(Apr 1984)

52.228-5		Insurance-Work on a Government Installation		(Jan 1997)

52.229-4		Federal, State, and Local Taxes				(Apr 2003)

(State and Local Adjustments)

52.232-8		Discounts for Prompt Payment				(Feb 2002)

52.232-18		Availability of Funds						(Apr 1984)

52.232-22		Limitation of Funds						(Apr 1984)

52.232-23		Assignment of Claims						(Jan 1986)

52.232-25		Prompt Payment						(Oct 2008)	

52.232-33		Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central 		

Contractor Registration					(Oct 2003)

52.233-1		Disputes – Alternate I						(Jul 2002)

52.233-4		Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim		(Oct 2004)

52.234-4		Earned Value Management System				(Jul 2006)

52.237-2		Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment,		

			and Vegetation						(Apr 1984)

52.239-1		Privacy or Security Safeguards				(Aug 1996)

52.242-13		Bankruptcy							(Jul 1995)

52.244-6		Subcontract For Commercial Items				(Oct 2010)

52.245-1		Government Property						(Aug 2010)

52.246-2 		Inspection of Supplies – Fixed Price 				(Aug 1996)

52.246-3		Inspection of Supplies – Cost Reimbursement		(May 2001)

52.246-4		Inspection of Services (Fixed Price)				(Aug 1996)	

52.246-5		Inspection of Services – Cost Reimbursement		(Apr 1984)

52.246-8		Inspection of R&D – Cost Reimbursement			(May 2001)

52.246-9		Inspection of R&D – (Short Form)				(Apr 1984)

52.246-11		Higher –level contract quality requirement			(Feb 1999)

52.246-15		Certificate of Conformance					(Apr 1984)

52.246-25		Limitation of Liability – Services				(Feb 1997)

52.249-2  		Termination for Convenience of the 

			Government (Fixed-Price) 					(May 2004),

52.249-6  		Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) 				(May 2004),

52.249-8  		Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) 			(Apr 1984)

52.251-1		Government Supply Sources					(Aug 2010)

52.251-2		Interagency Fleet management System Vehicles and 

Related Services						(Jan 1991)

52.252-2		Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference		(Feb 1998)



I.1.2		FAR CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT



52.216-18 ORDERING. (OCT 1995) 

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from the effective date of the contract through the end of the contract period of performance. 

(b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. 

(c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. 



52.216-19 Order Limitations. (Oct 1995)

(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $25,000.00, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract.

(b) Maximum order. The contractor is not obligated to honor --

(1) Any order for a single item in excess of __$200 million

(2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of __$200 million____________; or

(3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within __2__________ days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within __10___ days after issuance, with written notice stating the contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.



52.216-22 INDEFINITE QUANTITY. (OCT 1995) 



(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. 



(b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum". The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum". 



(c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. 



(d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 365days following the end of the contract period of performance.



I.1.3	DEFENSE FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION SUPPLEMENTS (DFARS) CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



CLAUSE NO		CLAUSE TITLE						DATE

252.204-7004		Required Central Contractor Registration			(Nov 2001)

252.204-7008		Requirements for Contracts Involving			

		Export Controlled Items					(June 1995)

252.219-7003		Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DOD CONTRACTS)	(Apr 2007)

252.225-7040		Contractor Personnel Authorized to Accompany U.S. 

		Forces Deployed Outside the U.S.				(Jul 2009)

252.225-7997		Additional Requirements and Responsibilities Relating

		To Alleged Crimes by or Against Contractor	Personnel 

		In Iraq or Afghanistan (Deviation)				(Dec 2009)

252.204-7008		Requirements for Contracts Involving 			(Jul 2008)

Export Controlled Items

252.227-7013		Rights in Technical Data -					

		Noncommercial Items						(Nov 1995)

252.227-7014		Rights in Noncommercial Computer				

		Software and Noncommercial Computer

Software Documentation					(Jun 1995)

252.227-7016		Rights in Bid or Proposal Information			(Jun 1995)

252.227-7019		Validation of Asserted Restrictions -				(Jun 1995)

		Computer Software  

252.227-7028		Technical Data or Computer Software			(Jun 1995)

		Previously Delivered to the Government

252.234-7002		Earned Value Management System				(Apr 2008)

252.246-7001		Warranty of Data						(Mar 2003)



The information provided in List of Attachments is for reference only.  The documents in List of Attachments are not intended to change the RFP and any conflict therein should be resolved by referring and relying on the RFP.  



J.1	LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



Attachment A		Task Order Monthly Status Report - Sample

Attachment B		Problem Notification Report

Attachment C		DD 254 

Attachment D		Reserved

Attachment E		Corporate NDA Statement

Attachment F		Reserved

Attachment G		Government Furnished Documents

Attachment H	Sample Task Order Level of Effort (to be removed at time of award) 

Attachment I	Contract Key Personnel Qualification Matrix (to be removed at time of award)

Attachment J		Reserved

Attachment K		SETA Labor Category Descriptions

Attachment L 		Offeror Labor Categories Mapped and Costs

Attachment M		Sample Task Order Cost Template 

Attachment N	Sample Task Order  

Attachment O		Past Performance Questionnaire



ATTACHMENT A



TASK ORDER MONTHLY STATUS REPORT – SAMPLE

 (MONTH AND YEAR)



Contractor Name

Contract Number

Task Order Number

Prepared by:

Reporting Period:

Page 1 of __





Monthly Status Report



	Status of Performance Against Performance Measures



Work Planned for the Month toward Achieving Desired Outcomes





Work Completed During the Month toward Achieving Desired Outcomes





Work Not Completed During the Month toward Achieving Desired Outcomes





Work Planned for Next Month toward Achieving Desired Outcomes





Contract Meetings

Indicate the meeting date, meeting subject, persons in attendance and duration of the meeting.





Deliverable Status 





Issues/Questions/Recommendations





Risks

Indicate potential risks, their probability, impact, and proposed mitigation strategy.





CPR/CFSR

 



ATTACHMENT B



PROBLEM NOTIFICATION REPORT







1.	Nature and sources of problem:





2.	COR was verbally notified on: (date) ___________________





3.	Is action required by the Government?    Yes_____  No_____





4.	If YES, describe Government action required and date required:





5.	Will problem impact delivery schedule?    Yes_____  No_____





6.	If YES, identify what deliverables will be affected and extent of delay:





7.	Can required delivery be brought back on schedule?    Yes_____  No_____





8.	Describe corrective action needed to resolve problems:





9.	When will corrective action be completed?





10.	Are increased costs anticipated?    Yes_____  No_____





11.	Identify amount of increased costs anticipated, their nature, and define Government responsibility for problems and costs:







ATTACHMENT C



DD-254 FORM









ATTACHMENT D



RESERVED







ATTACHMENT E



CORPORATE NDA Statement







ATTACHMENT F



RESERVED



ATTACHMENT G



GOVERNMENT FURNISHED DOCUMENTS

(Uploaded to FedBizOpps as separate attachments)

JIEDDO Instruction 5000.01 Joint IED Defeat Capability Approval and Acquisition Management Process (JCAAMP)

JIEDDO-COIC Supply Standard Operating Procedures dated 6 November 2009



ATTACHMENT H



SAMPLE TASK ORDER 

level of effort 



(TO BE REMOVED AT TIME OF AWARD)



SAMPLE TASK ORDER STAFFING TEMPLATE1







1.  This table shall include level of effort for both key and non-key positions.  Please ensure that the estimate accounts for the entire period of performance communicated with the sample task orders.  Each Contractor staff member proposed must have a separate row to allow for identification of the number of people proposed by labor category.



ATTACHMENT I

CONTRACT KEY PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS MATRIX (Use one table per each Key Person proposed)

Example only, modify requirements column to respond to this RFP.



Proposed Personnel Name:  				John Smith

Proposed Position per Section H.6.1 – Key Personnel:	Program Manager

Proposed Contractor Labor Category (per Price Proposal):	Engagement Manager

Available to begin work on start date of the Contract: 	Yes

Contingent Hire:						[Enter Yes or No] 

Security Clearance:					[Enter Clearance Level]





Multiple pages for qualifications are acceptable.  Please do not repeat the qualifications of individuals beyond the first time that person appears in the table.



ATTACHMENT J



RESERVED































ATTACHMENT K



SETA Labor Category Descriptions





















	

ATTACHMENT L



OFFEROR LABOR CATEGORIES MAPPED AND COSTS









ATTACHMENT M



SAMPLE TASK ORDER COST TEMPLATE









ATTACHMENT N



SAMPLE TASK ORDER






ATTACHMENT O



PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE









K.1	COMPLETION OF REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS



Prior to award, prospective awardees must complete representations and certifications in the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) available at  in conjunction with required registration in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The representations and certifications must be updated as necessary, but at least annually, to ensure they are kept current, accurate and complete.  



K.2	ADDITIONAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS



Additional  may be required in addition to the completed representations and certifications completed on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA). 









L.1	52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation of offer.  The solicitation provisions and/or contract clauses are available in either HTML or PDF format at .



CLAUSE NO	CLAUSE TITLE		DATE



52.215-1   	Instructions to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition	(JAN 2004)

52.215-20 	Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information

                 	Other Than Cost or Pricing Data – Alternate IV	(OCT 1997)

Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer

	Information with Offer	(MAY 1999)



L.2	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS



Offeror shall furnish the information required by this solicitation.  A Standard Form 33, "Solicitation, Offer, and Award," completed and signed by the contractor, Block 17, constitutes the contractor's acceptance of the terms and conditions of the proposed Contract.  Therefore, the form must be executed by a representative of the contractor authorized to commit the contractor to contractual obligations.



Offeror is expected to examine this entire solicitation document.  Failure to do so will be at the contractor's own risk.



The Government may make award based on initial offers received, without discussion of such offers.  Proposals shall set forth full, accurate, and complete information as required by this solicitation package (including Attachments).  The penalty for making false statements in proposals is prescribed in Title 18 USC. Section 1001.



Offeror submitting restrictive data will mark it as follows in accordance with the FAR Clause 52.215-1 Instructions to The contractor—Competitive Acquisition which is incorporated by reference.  Clause 52.215-1 states:  "Offerors who include in their proposals data they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall – 



Mark the title page with the following legend: 



"This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal or quotation.  If, however, a Contract is awarded to this Contractor as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, and the Government incorporates the proposal as part of the award, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data.  Also, this restriction does not limit the Government's right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction.  The data subject to the restriction is contained in sheets (insert numbers or other identification of sheets)"; and 



Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend:  



"Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal or quotation."



The Government assumes no liability for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose.  Unless restricted, information submitted in response to this request may become subject to disclosure to the public pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 USC. 551).



The authorized negotiator or the signatory of the SF-33 will be notified of the date and time of the oral technical proposal presentation.  The contractor shall provide the name of the individual, the position title, telephone number, FAX number and electronic mail address of that individual.



L.3	SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS



Offeror is requested to submit its questions grouped by solicitation section with reference to the particular Section/subsection number.  Questions must be received before the date specified in the RFP cover letter for receipt of questions.  



L.4	AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE



All commercial hardware and software proposed in response to this solicitation document shall have been formally announced for general release on or before the closing date of the solicitation.  Failure to have equipment or software announced prior to submission of proposal may render the offeror’s proposal unacceptable.



L.5	RESERVED



L.6	SUBMISSION OF OFFERS



Each offer shall be in three (3) parts:  Part I - the Written Cost Proposal, Part II - the Written Technical Proposal and Part III - the Oral Technical Proposal Presentation.



Complete Proposals shall be submitted by the due date and time specified on the SF 33 to: 



GSA FEDSIM

ATTN:  Michael Chappelle, CO

2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800

Arlington, VA  20406

Telephone: (703) 605-2656

Fax: (703) 605-9895

Email: michael.chappelle@gsa.gov



Proposals submitted via email will not be accepted; Offerors must physically deliver the proposals as instructed to the address above.



In the event of an inconsistency between the hard copy and the CD version of proposal submission, the hard copy shall be considered the intended version for review by the Government in response to this solicitation. 



Part I, is the written Cost proposal and shall contain the following:



Solicitation, Offer and Award (SF 33) (TAB A)

Section B – Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs (TAB B)

Cost/Price Supporting Documentation (TAB C)

Subcontractor Supporting Documentation (TAB D)

Cost for Sample Task Order (TAB E)

Assumptions (TAB F)

Organizational Conflict of Interest Statement (TAB G)

Non-Disclosure Agreement (TAB H)

Representations and Certifications (TAB I)

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Information (TAB J)

Overtime and Extended Hour Billing Practices (TAB K)

Socio-Economic Self Certification (TAB L)

Contractor Registration (TAB M)



Part II, is the written Technical Proposal and shall contain the following:



Response to Sample Task Order (TAB A)

Top Secret Facility Clearance (TAB B)

Past Performance Descriptions and Reference Forms (TAB C)

Contract Key Personnel Qualification Matrix (TAB D)

Section 508 Compliance Statement (TAB E)

Assumptions (TAB F)



Part III is the oral technical proposal presentation and shall contain the following:  



Topic 1: Technical Approach

Topic 2: Sample Task Order Response

Topic 3  Management Approach, Key Personnel and Program Staffing Approach

Topic 4: Past Performance



The Contracting Officer will schedule the oral technical proposal presentation after all proposals are received.  The oral technical proposal presentation shall contain the information shown in Section L.6.3.5 below.



L.6.1		THE WRITTEN COST PROPOSAL (PART I)



Written Cost Proposals shall be submitted in an original, 2 paper copies and an electronic copy (CD-ROM) containing all required sections of L.6.1.  There is no page limitation for the cost proposal.  The proposals shall contain the following tabs:



Solicitation, Offer and Award (SF 33) (Tab A).  When completed and signed by the offeror, it constitutes the offeror’s acceptance of the terms and conditions of the proposed Contract.  Therefore, the form must be executed by representatives of the offeror authorized to commit the offeror to contractual obligations.  The offeror shall sign the SF 33 in Block #17.



Section B – Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs (Tab B).  The offeror shall provide the following information in accordance with the guidance provided in Section B: 



Labor CLINs 0001 through 3001:  The proposed labor categories, mapped to the IDIQ labor categories provided in the RFP (See List of Attachments, Attachment K); the proposed burdened (i.e. all proposed costs excluding fee) for each mapped labor category, for both on-site and off-site locations (see format Attachment L)

  

Travel, Tools and ODC CLINs 0002, 0003 and 0004 through 3002, 3003 and 3004:  The proposed indirect handling rate (inclusive of all Overhead Charges, General and Administrative Charges) for travel, tools and ODCs.  



The offeror’s proposed base fee (not to exceed 2 percent) for fee-type orders issued under the SETA contract.



Cost/Price Supporting Documentation (Tab C).  Audits may be performed by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) on the offeror.  Cost/Price Proposals shall meet the DCAA audit submittal requirements pursuant to the following:



Cost proposals will be evaluated (but not scored) based on a Cost Realism Analysis.  Offerors shall fully support all proposed costs.  An offeror’s proposal is presumed to represent his/her best efforts in response to the solicitation.  Any inconsistency, whether real or apparent, between promised performance, and cost or price, shall be explained in the proposal.  



Offerors shall provide adequate information, which will allow the Government to perform a Cost Realism analysis.  Pursuant to FAR 2.101, Cost Realism as defined below includes more information than the FAR definition:

 

“…the process of independently reviewing and evaluating specific elements of each offeror's proposed cost estimate to determine whether the estimated proposed cost elements are realistic for the work to be performed; reflect a clear understanding of the requirements; and are consistent with the unique methods of performance and materials described in the offeror's technical proposal.”



The offeror shall submit all proposed costs using Microsoft Excel software utilizing the formats (or something similar) as shown in imbedded Figures 1, 2 and 3 that follow.  Proposal shall be submitted in Microsoft Excel without cells locked and include all formulas.  The offeror shall include adequate information, which will allow the Government to perform the required Cost Realism review.  This review may include the following types of analyses:



Technical Cost Analysis:  The offeror shall include sufficient detail that will enable the Government to perform a technical analysis of all proposed costs resulting from the offeror’s technical proposal in order for the Government to determine the need and reasonableness of each cost.  This review will include all costs associated with:

labor (inclusive of hours, labor categories, and skill mix); 

proposed types and quantities of materials/equipment; 

facilities; 

processes; and 

any other proposed cost factors.



Indirect Rate Review:  The offeror shall break out all proposed indirect rates (unburdened), by contract line item, and by each fiscal year.  The offeror shall clearly identify the cost base in which all indirect rates are applied.  The offeror shall include the makeup of each indirect expense pool.  If the offeror has an approved Forward Pricing Rate Agreement (FPRA), adequate proof of this approval shall be provided.  Additionally, the offeror’s cognizant DCAA auditor’s name and phone number shall be included in the cost proposal.  Historical indirect rates (unburdened) shall be provided (OH, Fringe, G&A, etc.) for the last five years inclusive of appropriate explanations for any major increases and decreases in the rates between years.  



Direct Labor Rate Review:  The offeror shall include the base labor rate (unburdened) for all proposed labor categories and all projected rates for all out years.  The key personnel labor rates should be supported by evidence of actual rates currently being paid.  Additionally, the offeror shall include any information that may be available to support the reasonableness of all direct labor rates proposed for non-key personnel (e.g. actual labor rates for like positions).  The offeror shall identify all direct labor escalation factors.  



Base Fee and Award Fee Review:  The offeror shall break out all proposed base fees and award fees and clearly delineate the cost base in which the fee percentages are applied.   



Balanced Contract Line Item Review.  Additionally, each offeror’s cost proposal will be evaluated based on appropriately balanced contract line items.  Unbalanced pricing (either too high or too low) may increase performance risk. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated cost, the cost of one or more contract line items is significantly over or understated. The evaluated cost is the aggregate of all proposed contract line items inclusive of all options.  If the offer is unbalanced, the contracting officer shall – (i) consider the risks to the Government associated with the unbalanced pricing in determining the competitive range and in making the source selection decision; and (ii) consider whether award of the task order will result in paying unreasonably high prices for contract performance.  An offer may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government.



Comparison of Total Proposed Cost to the Independent Government Cost Estimate (IGCE):



The Government will use the IGCE as an informational tool by comparing it to the offeror’s total proposed cost.   



Offerors shall not include any cost data in the technical proposals.



Figure 1 – 

Costs by Contract Line Item and By Each Year





Figure 2 – 

Summary of Costs for Years 1-X



Figure 3 – 

LOADED Rates* 

(To be used by the Government for Budgeting Purposes.)  



*Loaded Rates is defined as: the Direct Labor Rate, plus Overhead, Fringe (if applicable), G&A, plus Maximum Award Fee.)



Labor Overhead, Material Overhead, G&A, FCCM Rates. The offeror shall include the

breakout of all indirect rates, the bases in which they are applied, and the method of application.  The offeror shall explain the makeup of each indirect pool.  The offeror shall include, if approved, a copy of their Forward Pricing Rate Agreement (FPRA), as approved by DCAA.  If the offeror does not have an approved FPRA, the offeror shall include provisional and/or interim rate agreements, if available. The offeror shall also identify the name and telephone number of the cognizant DCAA representative so that the Government can obtain a rate verification.  Additionally, the offeror shall provide historical indirect rates for last five (5) years.



Subcontractor Supporting Documentation (Tab D).  The offeror shall also provide supporting cost/price documentation for all proposed subcontractors using the format outlined in section B.2.1.1 through B.2.1.4, to include the proposed type of subcontract, and if the contract with the subcontractor is a Time and Material, provide justification.  In addition to the cost back-up data cited previously, Defense Contract Audit Agency contact information and relevant cost/pricing data should be provided for all subcontractors.  Failure to provide complete supporting documentation may result in no further consideration of the offeror’s proposal.  Subcontractors may submit proprietary data directly to the Contracting Officer or through the prime Contractor in a separate, sealed envelope.



Cost for Sample Task (Tab E).  The offeror shall provide the total proposed cost for the sample task order provided as an attachment to the RFP.  The sample task order shall be priced on a cost basis (i.e. base costs for each labor category, excluding any fee).  The offeror shall complete the pricing template included in List of Attachments, Attachment M, by entering the estimated hours and the associated cost for each RFP labor category, as applicable to the offeror’s solution.  The costs shall be identical to those submitted in response to Section L.6.1.c, i.e. the offeror shall not propose additional discounts for the sample task. 



In addition to labor costs, the offeror shall enter in its proposed indirect handling percentage for travel, tools, ODCs, and proposed fee for each year of the sample task, identical to what was submitted in Section L.6.1.c.  The aggregate of the labor, travel, tools and ODC costs will be utilized as a part of the best value determination in terms of assessing the impact of the offeror’s costs on bottom line pricing, as well as assessing cost realism.  



Assumptions (Tab F).  The offeror must submit, under a separate tab, all (if any) assumptions upon which the Cost Proposal is based.



Organizational Conflict of Interest (Tab G).  The offeror shall complete and sign an Organizational Conflict of Interest Statement in which the offeror (and any Subcontractors, consultants) disclose information concerning the actual or potential conflict of interest with any proposal for any solicitation relating to any work in this Contract.  The offeror shall provide separate statements from the Prime Contractor and its subcontractors / consultants.  All actual or potential OCI situations shall be handled in accordance with FAR Subpart 9.5.  The statement should be accompanied by the offeror’s plan for mitigation, avoidance, or neutralization, if appropriate.



Non-Disclosure Agreement (Tab H).  The offeror shall complete and sign a Corporate Non-Disclosure Agreement (see List of Attachments, Attachment E).



Representations and Certifications (Tab I).  The offeror shall provide information in accordance with the instructions of FAR 52.212-3.



Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Information (Tab J).  The offeror shall provide information in accordance with the instructions of FAR 52.232-38.



Overtime and Extended Hour Billing Practices (Tab K).  The offeror shall describe its overtime, on-call and extended hour billing practices, based upon the description provided in Section F.2.3. 



Socio-Economic Status Self-Certification (Tab L).  The offeror shall provide self-certification that as of the RFP closing date, the Team Lead / Prime is a small business under North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code 541712 (Research and Development in Physical Engineering and Life Sciences [Except Biology]), and that they meet the SBA Small Business Size Standard, under NAICS 541712 (ie. 500 employees or less).  Furthermore, the offeror shall certify that under this contract, at least 51% of the work, shall be performed by small businesses.  The Government will evaluate the offeror’s Team Lead/Prime contractor status (as of the RFP closing date) as small business as a pass/fail evaluation.  Evaluation will involve reviewing the Team Lead’s/Prime’s socio-economic self-certified designation provided in this tab, and comparing that against what is listed within the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) and the SBA’s Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) databases, and will refer any conflicts to the Small Business Administration for final size status determinations. 

Contractor Registration (TAB M).  The contractor shall submit a statement that the contractor has registered in TOS (https:enable.its.gsa.gov, see the “registration” tab on the site for instructions) and that all information in TOS is up-to date.



Cost Explanation (TAB N).  The offeror shall describe why the total cost of the Task Order is above or below the range in Section L.5.  The offeror shall include an explanation that specifically draws the Government's attention to any unique technical aspects of the proposal the offeror would like the Government to consider as the justification for the deviation from the range.  If any new and/or innovative techniques are the basis for an abnormally low estimate, the nature of these techniques and their impact on cost or price must be explained.  Additionally, if a corporate policy decision has been made to absorb a portion of the estimated cost, this rationale must also be explained.  Any significant inconsistency, if unexplained, that raises a fundamental issue of the offeror’s understanding of the nature and scope of the work required and the offeror’s financial ability to perform the contract, may be grounds for rejection of the proposal.  The burden of proof as to cost credibility rests with the offeror.



L.6.2		THE WRITTEN TECHNICAL PROPOSAL (PART II)



Each offeror shall submit all information described below.  The offeror shall provide an original, 5 paper copies and an electronic copy (CD-ROM) containing all required components of Section II.  The maximum page limit for the written technical proposal is 55 pages.  The Government will evaluate up to and including page 55.  Pages and content over 55 pages will not be evaluated. 



Responses shall be in Times New Roman, Font Size 12, 1” margins.  The page limitations are based on single sided submissions; fold out pages will be counted as multiple pages.  Graphics may utilize a smaller font size.  The title page, cover letter, table of contents, past performance reference forms, Level 3 WBS, risk register and assumptions are excluded from the page count.



L.6.2.1		Response to Sample Task Order (TAB A)



The contractor shall provide a technical, management and staffing approach for the sample task order provided in List of Attachments, Attachment N.  The contractor shall provide the following:



The offeror’s technical approach for accomplishing the requirements contained in the sample task, including:



The approach and methodologies for accomplishing the unique requirements of Task Order 1.



A demonstration that the task order uses the same, or similar, methodology, techniques, and expertise as those proposed for the IDIQ.  



A discussion of the key activities, deliverables and milestones for the sample task order.



A discussion of the expectations for the level of Government personnel involvement to facilitate the completion of task activities.



Identify any additional proposed performance measures, as indicated in the Table 1 – Performance Requirements Summary, contained in the Sample Task Order (See List of Attachments, Attachment N).  Provide a discussion of these additional measures.  Per the instructions in the sample task order, the offeror shall not propose incentives or disincentives with the proposal.  



A Level 3 Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) to demonstrate the dependencies between tasks and to describe measurable outcomes of tasks.  The WBS shall include both transition and “steady state” operations.



A risk register (table) to describe potential risks for the sample task order and mitigation strategies.



The offeror’s staffing approach for the sample task order, including:



The sample task order Staffing Plan in accordance with the template provided in List of Attachments, Attachment H.  The Government’s range of estimated hours for the sample task order is between 47,000 - 55,000 hours.  If the offeror’s total estimated hours for the sample task order are not within the Government’s estimated range, the offeror shall provide its rationale for why the estimate is either higher or lower than the Government’s estimate.



A depiction of the organizational structure for the proposed sample task order team, depicting roles and responsibilities within the team and also communication interface points with Government personnel (both JIEDDO and GSA).  This includes a demonstration of the linkage between the sample task order team and the offeror’s proposed contract management team.



The task order in List of Attachments, Attachment N is being treated as a sample for IDIQ contract evaluation purposes; however, this task order will be separately competed and awarded immediately after award of the IDIQ contract.  The evaluation criteria contained in Section M - Evaluation Factors for Award will be used to evaluate the Sample Task Response.  



L.6.2.2		Top Secret Facility Clearance (TAB B)



The offeror shall provide the CAGE code of the proposed Prime Contractor that is responding to the RFP.  The CAGE code will be utilized to verify that the prime contractor possesses the required Top Secret Facility Clearance.  The CAGE code shall be for the business unit proposed (e.g. the offeror shall not provide the cage code for business unit A and propose to perform the work under business unit B).



L.6.2.3		Past Performance Descriptions and Reference Forms (TAB C)



The offeror shall provide a description (maximum 3 pages each) of three (3) projects of similar scope and complexity to anticipated task orders (i.e. work performed was similar to one or more tasks in section C.4) under this contract, either ongoing or completed within the last three years.  Past Performance for long-term, on-going projects are acceptable provided that segregated portions of those projects have been completed within the last 3 years and the offeror’s performance can be properly assessed and rated.  All three projects must be from the proposed prime contractor for the SETA contract.  Furthermore, all of the Past Performance submitted must be within the portfolio of the prime contractor’s business unit that is proposed for the SETA contract.  At least two of three projects shall be situations in which the proposed SETA prime contractor performed in the role of prime contractor on the past performance projects.  Past performance projects should be over $2 million in size, and scope should contain tasks similar to one or more task areas from Section C.4 of this contract.  



For each project, the offeror shall provide the following information:



Project Title

Client / Organization Name

Contract / Task Order Number

Type of Contract (e.g. FFP, T&M, CPAF)

Company’s Business Unit that managed the work

Period of Performance

Original Contract Value

Final (or Current) Contract Value

Client Reference Information: name, title, phone number, email address

Description of the Project



The relevancy of the projects is important.  As a result, to demonstrate relevancy, the offeror’s three past performance projects should collectively demonstrate the following:



Ability to manage performance-based contracts, which include the management of multiple task orders; For performance-based contracts, describe performance measures utilized and incentive/disincentive provisions.

Ability to control costs

Ability to manage contracts of similar size and complexity 

Ability to acquire and retain staff

Ability to manage a team of subcontractors

Ability to manage work at multiple locations, including CONUS and OCONUS

Ability to provide coverage for the full range of tasks in section C of this RFP.

Ability to manage challenges in changing environments and incorporate lessons learned



The offeror is additionally required to send a Past Performance Questionnaire (no page limit) form (List of Attachments, Attachment O) for the past performance provided above.  The client reference must complete the survey and provide the completed form in a sealed envelope back to the offeror, in sufficient time to ensure the past performance survey information is provided, unopened, with the written proposal upon RFP closing.  This completed form shall only be submitted in hardcopy, and is not included in the required electronic transmission of the proposal.  The offeror is responsible for coordinating with its client reference to ensure that the completed past performance questionnaire is submitted with the proposal upon closing.  Any past performance questionnaire forms received after the RFP closing date will not be considered and the past performance rating given to that firm will be Neutral for the referenced project.  



The offeror may be given the opportunity to provide a response to any adverse past performance information used for evaluation, prior to award.  



L.6.2.4		Contract Key Personnel Qualifications Matrix (TAB D)



The offeror shall submit a Key Personnel Qualification Matrix (See List of Attachments, Attachment I for a template) for the proposed Program Manager at the contract level, relating the specialized experience identified for the Program Manager in Section H.6.1 Key Personnel of this RFP and the qualifications of the person or persons being proposed for that position.  The offeror shall also complete the matrix for any other contract level key personnel that the offeror may propose, including providing the desirable qualifications for the individual(s).  The offeror shall represent that the proposed Contract key personnel named are available to begin work on the start date of the contract and indicate whether or not they are currently employed by the prime contractor or subcontractors proposed.  



L.6.2.5		Section 508 Compliance Statement (TAB E)



The offeror’s written proposal shall include a statement indicating its capability to comply with Section 508 requirements throughout its performance of this contract.  The offeror’s proposal will be evaluated to determine whether it includes a statement indicating its capability to comply with Section 508 requirements throughout its performance of this contract.  



L.6.2.6		Assumptions (TAB F)



Offerors shall identify and address assumptions within the description of the factor(s) to which they pertain.



L.6.3		ORAL TECHNICAL PROPOSAL PRESENTATION (PART III)



Each offeror shall make an oral technical proposal presentation and participate in a question and answer (Q&A) session led by the Contracting Officer and participated in by the Technical Evaluation Board Members and other representatives of the Government.  The oral technical proposal presentation and Q&A session will be held at the unclassified level.  The oral technical proposal presentation will be used to assess the offeror’s capability to satisfy the requirements set forth in the RFP.  The offeror’s oral technical proposal presentation shall contain the information in Section L.6.3.5.



L.6.3.1		Oral Technical Proposal Presentation Constraints 



The offeror shall identify the authors of the presentation by name and association with the offeror.  Attendance at the presentation and the subsequent Q&A session shall be limited to the offeror’s Contract key personnel and key personnel for the Sample Task Order if the offeror has identified the Sample Task Order key personnel by name, (all key personnel are highly encouraged to attend) and no more than two additional representatives from each company proposed (i.e. prime contractor and subcontractors).  This number may be reduced by the contracting officer, depending upon the number of requested attendees and the size limitations of the oral presentation location.  



An offeror’s “key personnel” includes only those persons who will be assigned to the contract as key personnel per Section H.6.1., as well as any additional contract level key personnel proposed by the offeror and any Sample Task Order key personnel (if the offeror has identified them by name in the proposal).  Any of the additional representatives may make a brief introduction which will not be evaluated, but which will count towards the offeror’s allotted time.  For the remainder of the presentation, only key personnel shall present.



The offeror will be given 15 minutes for set up.  After opening remarks by the Government, the offeror will be given up to 90 minutes to present, uninterrupted.  The presentation will be stopped precisely after 90 minutes.  



Upon completion of the presentation, the Government will caucus to formulate any clarifications regarding the technical proposal (written and oral).  The approximate length of time the offeror can expect the Government to caucus is 60 to 90 minutes.  The Government and offeror will then address any clarifications posed by the Contracting Officer or the TEB Chairman.  The clarification session, if necessary, is expected to last about 1 hour.  The offeror may briefly caucus to coordinate responses to specific requests for clarification.  The total presentation, caucus and clarification sessions are expected to last approximately 3 to 4 hours.  The Contracting Officer and the TEB Chairman will be responsible for ensuring the schedule is met and that all offerors are given the same opportunity to present and answer questions.  Offerors shall provide 5 appropriately bound hard copies of the presentation materials (including slides, transparencies).  Only those slides actually presented will be considered in the technical evaluation.



L.6.3.2		Oral Technical Proposal Presentation Media



There is no limit to the number of slides that can be presented during the oral technical proposal presentation, but only those slides presented during the oral presentation will be considered for evaluation (oral technical proposal presentation slides shall be submitted in advance with the written submission).  Any slides over and above those presented during the oral presentation will be returned to the offeror and will not be evaluated as part of this source selection.  No other media may be used.  Presentation media is limited to computerbased graphics of the offeror’s choice (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint) or normal viewgraph slides displayed using an appropriate projector.  Unobtrusive company logos or names can be inserted in any or all slides.  Slides should be sequentially numbered in the lower right corner.  Transition effects shall not be used.  The slides shall not contain any fonts smaller than a proportionally spaced font (such as Times New Roman) of at least 12 points.



Except for the screen provided in the conference room, the Government will provide no equipment.  The offeror shall be responsible for any equipment necessary for the presentation.  



L.6.3.3		Oral Technical Proposal Presentation Scheduling 



The Contracting Officer will schedule the oral technical proposal presentation with the authorized negotiator or the signatory of the SF-33.  Time slots will be assigned randomly and may not be changed or traded.  The Government reserves the right to reschedule any offeror’s oral technical proposal presentation at its sole discretion.



Oral Technical Proposal Presentations will be given at facilities designated by the Contracting Officer.  The exact location, seating capacity, and any other relevant information will be provided when the presentations are scheduled.  



L.6.3.4	Recording of the Oral Technical Proposal Presentation



The offeror may not record any of the oral presentation process.



L.6.3.5		Oral Technical Proposal Presentation Topics



The Government does not expect the offeror to provide a thorough presentation of those items already submitted in writing in Part II.  Instead, the offeror shall address the information described under the topics below.  The oral technical proposal presentation shall include the following topics, and be organized in the following order: 



Topic 1: Technical Approach

Topic 2: Sample Task Order Response

Topic 3  Management Approach, Key Personnel and Program Staffing Approach

Topic 4: Past Performance



L.6.3.5.1	TECHNICAL APPROACH (Topic 1) 



The offeror shall identify and describe the following: 



The offeror’s methodologies and analytic techniques to be used in fulfilling the technical requirements for each task area identified in the Request for Proposal (RFP).  



The offeror’s ability to provide a sufficiently wide range of technical support and expertise to support the breadth and depth of the requirements.



The offeror should tailor the technical approach based on the requirements and standards as identified in Section C – Performance-Based Statement of Work (PBSOW).  



L.6.3.5.2	SAMPLE TASK ORDER RESPONSE (Topic 2) 



The offeror shall propose a technical, management, staffing and key personnel approach to meet the requirements of the Sample Task Order (Attachment N).   The Sample Task Order Response shall describe the following in terms of providing a effective solution:  



The offeror’s summary of its sample task order technical solution, in response to the items in Section L.6.2.1.a.



The offeror’s summary of its sample task order staffing approach, in response to Section L.6.2.1.b.



L.6.3.5.3	MANAGEMENT APPROACH INCLUDING KEY PERSONNEL AND PROGRAM STAFFING APPROACH (Topic 3) 

 

The offeror shall identify the Management Approach, techniques, and tools that the offeror shall use to accomplish the objectives and requirements identified in this RFP.  Additionally, the offeror shall discuss its key program staffing approach, describing the experience, skill and qualifications of the proposed key personnel (See Section H.6.1) as well as the methods for ensuring access to a pool of quality resources during the life of the contract.  The offeror shall tailor the Management Approach to achieve the outcomes as identified in Section C – Performance-Based Statement of Work (PBSOW).  The offeror shall specifically address the following:



The offeror’s approach for providing program management support (e.g. process management and control, project status and cost reporting, performance measurement, issue resolution) to enable effective execution of work requirements.  



The offeror’s utilization of management tools / technology to control project activities (e.g. for project plans, EVM, WBS, HW / SW purchases).



The offeror’s methodology for handling lines of authority and communication during the contract.  This includes an illustration of the offeror’s proposed contract-level organizational structure, and associated interface points with the Government.  The offeror shall describe its understanding of communication requirements with both JIEDDO and GSA.  



The offeror’s distribution of staff in terms of roles, responsibilities, and qualifications for the Sample Task Order.



The offeror’s approach to implementing a quality control program which ensures alignment with the PBSOW’s desired outcomes.



The offeror’s approach to transition-in and transition-out of contract task orders, specifically as it relates to swiftly obtaining knowledge of business / technical environments, and ensuring continuity of work products, staffing, and documentation / knowledge transfer processes.



The offeror’s processes and capabilities with respect to recruiting, training and retaining TS / SCI cleared personnel, as it relates to JIEDDO SETA work environment.  



The offeror’s approach/ability to react to JIEDDO’s requirements and the dynamics of a rapidly changing world and mission environment through dedicated resources, quick responses, and flexibility when determining solutions.



L.6.3.5.4	PAST PERFORMANCE (Topic 4) 



The offeror shall summarize the past performance projects submitted in response to Section L.6.2.3 of the RFP.







M.1		METHOD OF AWARD 



The Government will award no more than five contracts as a result of the multiple-award IDIQ RFP.  Contracts will be awarded to the offerors whose proposals provide the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered.  Technical proposals will be evaluated based on the factors described in Section M.3.  All evaluation factors other than cost, when combined, are significantly more important than cost.  Award may be made to other than the lowest priced technically acceptable proposal.  Offerors shall be aware that cost may increase in importance, and become a discriminating factor as proposals become similar in ratings for the other factors.



The Government may make award based on initial offers received, without discussion of such offers.  Offers shall set forth full, accurate, and complete information as required by this solicitation package (including Attachments).  The penalty for making false statements in proposals is prescribed in Title 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001.



M.2		COST PROPOSAL EVALUATION



The cost proposal will be evaluated by the Government based on the following elements:



Cost Reasonableness

Sample Task Order Pricing 



The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal that includes any assumption or condition that impacts or affects the Government’s requirements.  Tab G of the cost proposal will be evaluated to assess whether or not an actual or potential Organizational Conflict of Interest exists.  If a disclosed conflict of interest is found to exist that cannot be mitigated, avoided, or waived in accordance with FAR Part 9.5, that offeror will be ineligible for award.



M.2.1		COST REASONABLENESS



The Government’s evaluation of cost reasonableness will assess whether the cost build-up submitted is consistent with Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) approved procedures.  Specifically, the Government will utilize DCAA to validate the cost proposals for all labor categories and material / indirect handling rates, and escalation factors submitted.



The Government will also assess cost reasonableness for the sample task order by examining the offeror’s overall proposed level of effort and labor mix, as it relates to the proposed costs for the sample task order.  Specifically, the Government will utilize its independent range of estimated hours (communicated in Section L.6,2,1(b) to compare against the offeror’s proposed level of effort (including any rationale the offeror provides as justification for proposing below or above the Government’s range of estimated hours).



M.2.2		SAMPLE TASK ORDER COSTS



Evaluation of cost will include the proposed cost for the sample task, produced in response to Section L.6.1.e.  While cost is not the most significant factor in the award determination, the cost comparison based upon the sample task order will become a part of the best value determination. 



M.3	TECHNICAL EVALUATION FACTORS



The Government will evaluate technical proposals (Section L, Part II and Part III) based on the factors shown below:  



Factor 1:  Technical Approach to include information presented under the Technical Approach Topic 1 (See Section L.6.3.5.1) as part of the oral technical proposal presentation.



Factor 2:  Sample Task Order Response to include the information provided in response to the sample task order (See Section L.6.2.1), including the technical approach/methodologies (Section L.6.2.(b)  as well as information presented under the Sample Task Order Response Topic 2 (See Section L.6.3.5.2).



Factor 3:  Management Approach and Key Personnel and Program Staffing Approach to include information provided in response to the Management and Key Personnel and Staffing Approach Topic 3 (See Section L.6.3.5.3), the Key Personnel Descriptions (See Section H.6.1 and List of Attachments, Attachment I), and Sample Task Order Staffing Approach (See Section L.6.2.1(b) and List of Attachments, Attachment H).  



Factor 4:	Past Performance to include information provided in response to Past Performance Descriptions and Reference Forms (See Section L.6.2.3 and List of Attachments, Attachment O) and Past Performance Topic 4 (See Section L.6.3.5.4).



The technical proposal evaluation factors are listed in descending order of importance.  All four technical factors are significantly more important than cost.  The Government will combine the results of the written and oral submissions to arrive at a rating for the technical evaluation factors as a whole.  A failure on any single Pass/Fail criteria or the receipt of a Not Acceptable rating for any single factor will make the offeror’s proposal ineligible for award. 

Pass/Fail Elements:



The Government will reject any proposal in which the offeror (prime contractor) does not possess a Top Secret Facility Clearance (See Section L.6.2.2).  This will be validated via the offeror’s CAGE code from the business unit proposed for the work.  This will be evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis.



The Government will reject any offeror’s proposal (See Section L.6.1( l.)) that does not contain the offeror’s self-certification that as of the date of RFP closing, the Team Lead / Prime contractor is a small business, under NAICS code 541712, and meets the SBA Size Standard for NAICS code 541712.  Furthermore, the offeror’s certification must state that at least 51% of all work will be performed small businesses.  The Government will confirm the offeror’s self-certification information with the information in CCR and the SBA Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) databases for verification.  Any conflicts between the self-certification and the information in the CCR, will be referred to the Small Business Administration for final size status determination. 



M.3.1		FACTOR 1:  TECHNICAL APPROACH



The Government will evaluate the Technical Approach Factor 1 using the offeror’s response (See Section M.3 Factor 1 above) and the degree that the response meets the following criteria:



Detailed.

Complete 

Effective at accomplishing the requirements of the contract

Tailored (the Government’s requirements/objectives and conditions are incorporated and described in the offeror’s methodologies and approaches)



The Government will evaluate the degree to which the Technical Approach can be accomplished with minimal risk.



M.3.2		FACTOR 2:  SAMPLE TASK ORDER RESPONSE



The Government will evaluate the Sample Task Order Response Factor 2 using the offeror’s response (See Section M.3 Factor 2) and the degree that the response meets the following criteria:



Detailed.

Complete 

Effective at accomplishing the requirements of the task order

Tailored (the Government’s requirements/objectives and conditions are incorporated and described in the offeror’s methodologies and approaches, including consistency with the approach and methodologies provided by the contractor for the SETA contract.)



The Government will evaluate the degree to which the approach can be accomplished with minimal risk.



M.3.3		FACTOR 3:  MANAGEMENT APPROACH INCLUDING KEY PERSONNEL AND PROGRAM STAFFING APPROACH 



The Government will evaluate the Management Approach and Key Personnel and Program Staffing Approach Response Factor 3 using the offeror’s response (See Section M.3 Factor 3) and the degree that the response meets the following criteria for a. thru i.:



Detailed.

Complete 

Effective at managing the requirements of the contract



The Government will evaluate the proposed Key Personnel experience in terms of the relevance of their proposed role and the requirements of the RFP.



The Government will evaluate the degree to which the approach can be accomplished with minimal risk.



M.3.4		FACTOR 4:  PAST PERFORMANCE



The Government will evaluate Past Performance Factor 4 using the offeror’s response (See Section M.3 Factor 4) based on the following:



The degree of relevance of the submitted past performance descriptions in terms of the requirements of the RFP and the items listed in Section L.6.2.3, the currency of the experience (performed in the last 3 years) and similarity of the offeror’s roles and responsibilities to those that will be provided for the task orders under this contract, and the similarity of the past work in terms of size i.e. size of at least $2 million, scope similar to one or more of the task areas contained in Section C of the RFP, and similarity of complexity of past performance to the anticipated task orders.  Past performance with scope similar to more than one of the task areas in Section C, will be evaluated as being more similar/relevant than past performance that has scope similar to only one task area.  In conducting the past performance assessment, the Government may use data obtained from other sources, as well as that provided in the proposal.  The rating given for relevant work performance is very important to the evaluation.  Past Performance, either positive or negative, which is considered by the Government to be more closely related to the scope of this effort will be given additional weight in the evaluation process.



The degree of effectiveness of past performance based on the results of the completed questionnaire/survey forms and/or Government discussions in terms of ratings provided for quality, timeliness, and cost efficiency.  Effective past performance provides the Government confidence that the offeror can successfully perform the work of this RFP.



Any past performance information not submitted and received by the date/time of RFP closing will NOT be considered and will result in a past performance rating of Neutral for the referenced project.  In this regard, if some of the offeror’s references provide the past performance information by RFP closing but others do not, the Government will rate the respondents accordingly and note the non-respondent project(s) as Neutral.  If all three references for an offeror’s proposal do not provide the past performance information by RFP closing, the offeror will be rated as Neutral overall for Past Performance.  Any neutral past performance ratings, partial or in whole, will be taken into consideration during the Government’s overall risk assessment during the best value determination process. 



The Government reserves the right to check other documented Federal sources (e.g. CPARS) for the evaluation of past performance, if applicable to SETA requirements.



M.4	ASSUMPTIONS



All assumptions will be evaluated as part of the individual factor to which they apply.  The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal that includes any assumption that may impact satisfying the Government’s requirements.







SETA RFP Labor Category

Unburdened Cost – Onsite

Unburdened Cost - Offsite

[Enter SETA RFP Labor Category]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all direct and indirect costs, excluding fee]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all costs, excluding fee]

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category









SETA RFP Labor Category

Unburdened Cost – Onsite

Unburdened Cost - Offsite

[Enter SETA RFP Labor Category]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all direct and indirect costs, excluding fee]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all costs, excluding fee]

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category









SETA RFP Labor Category

Unburdened Cost – Onsite

Unburdened Cost - Offsite

[Enter SETA RFP Labor Category]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all direct and indirect costs, excluding fee]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all costs, excluding fee]

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category









SETA RFP Labor Category

Unburdened Cost – Onsite

Unburdened Cost - Offsite

[Enter SETA RFP Labor Category]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all direct and indirect costs, excluding fee]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all costs, excluding fee]

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category









SETA RFP Labor Category

Unburdened Cost – Onsite

Unburdened Cost - Offsite

[Enter SETA RFP Labor Category]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all direct and indirect costs, excluding fee]

[Enter sum of unburdened costs, i.e. all costs, excluding fee]

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category

Complete row for Each SETA RFP category









CLIN

Description

Indirect / Material Handling Rate

0002a

Travel

________%

0003a

Tools

________%

0004a

ODCs

________%



CLIN

Description

Indirect / Material Handling Rate

0002b

Travel

________%

0003b

Tools

________%

0004b

ODCs

________%



CLIN

Description

Indirect / Material Handling Rate

1002

Travel

________%

1003

Tools

________%

1004

ODCs

________%



CLIN

Description

Indirect / Material Handling Rate

2002

Travel

________%

2003

Tools

________%

2004

ODCs

________%



CLIN

Description

Indirect / Material Handling Rate

3002

Travel

________%

3003

Tools

________%

3004

ODCs

________%



CLIN

Year

0005a

Base Period (Year One)

0005b

Base Period (Year Two)

1005

Option Year One

2005

Option Year Two

3005 

Option Year Three



Commercial Terms*

Legal Restriction

Action**

Contract formation and modification

Under FAR 1.601(a), in an acquisition involving the use of appropriated funds, an agreement binding on the Government may only be entered into by a duly warranted contracting officer in writing.  Under FAR 43.102, the same requirement applies to contract modifications affecting the rights of the parties. 

Any provisions purporting to form a contract binding on the US Government by any other means (e.g., use, download, click through terms, etc.) must be deleted.  The same applies to provisions allowing for License Agreement terms to be changed unilaterally by the Licensor.

Patent or other type of intellectual property Indemnity – sellers of products or services often provide that in the event of claim or litigation alleging infringement of patent rights asserted by some third party that the seller will indemnify the buyer, provided that the buyer provide notice of the claim or litigation, and that the seller assume control of the litigation and any proposed settlement. 

Under the authority of 28 USC § 516, only the Attorney General, acting by and through the attorneys of the US Department of Justice, may represent the US Government in litigation. 

The patent or other type of intellectual property indemnity clause remains in effect, but any undertaking to "defend" the Government or any requirement that the seller control litigation and/or any proposed settlement is to be deleted.  

General Indemnity – sellers of products or services provide that in the event of any litigation arising from the buyers use of the product or service that buyer will indemnify seller's litigation costs and damages (if any). 

Agreements to pay the attorney fees of a private party require a statutory waiver of sovereign immunity. Agreements to pay some indeterminate amount of money in the future violate the restrictions of the Anti-Deficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1341(a)(1) and the Adequacy of Appropriations Act, 41 USC §11.

General Indemnity clauses must be removed from the License Agreement. 

Arbitration of disputes – sellers of products or services provide that any disputes with buyer must be resolved through binding arbitration without recourse to litigation in state or federal courts. 

Federal Agencies are not allowed to use binding arbitration unless the head of the agency has promulgated guidance through administrative rulemaking on the use of binding arbitration. See 5 USC § 575.  At the time of this Solicitation release, GSA has not done so. 

Binding Arbitration clauses must be removed from the License Agreement. 

Venue, Jurisdiction and Choice of Law – sellers of products or services provide that jurisdiction of any dispute will be in a particular state, federal or foreign court or that particular state or foreign law will govern. 

Litigation where the US Government is a defendant must be heard either in US District Court (28 USC § 1346) or the US Court of Federal Claims (28 USC §1491). The US Government, as the sovereign, does not contract under state or foreign law.  Depending on the subject matter of the dispute, the Contract Disputes Act or other applicable law will govern.

Clauses claiming that disputes will only be heard in state court will be revised to allow disputes in Federal court.  Choice of law clauses must be deleted.

Equitable Remedies – sellers of products or services provide that in the event of a dispute concerning patent or copyright infringement that the end user agree that an injunction is appropriate. 

The only remedy provided for copyright or patent infringement against the US Government is monetary damages.  See 28 USC § 1498.

Equitable remedy clauses must be removed.

Negative Options – sellers of products or services provide that option periods will automatically be exercised unless affirmative action is taken by the buyer to not exercise the option.

Agreements to pay money in advance of appropriations violate the restrictions of the Anti-Deficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1341(a)(1) and the Adequacy of Appropriations Act, 41 USC §11.

Negative option clauses must be removed.

Limitation of Liability

Various (see next column)

Limitation of liability clauses may be included in accordance with the Licensor's standard commercial practices, except that such clauses may not operate to impair or prejudice the U.S. Government's right (a) to recover for fraud or crimes arising out of or relating to this task order under any Federal fraud statute, including without limitation the False Claims Act (31 USC §§3729 through 3733), or (b) to express remedies provided under any FAR, GSAR or master Alliant contract clauses incorporated into this task order.

Integration/Order of Precedence Clauses



Any provisions purporting to invalidate or supersede the terms of the Government task order resulting from this Solicitation (such provisions are frequently found in "entire agreement" clauses) must be removed from the License Agreement.



CONTRACT NUMBER:



DATE:





IDIQ Labor Category

(Government Labor Category – See Attachment K)

Description of Function for Offeror’s Proposed Solution

Key

Yes or No

ESTIMATED HOURS for Year 1

ESTIMATED HOURS for Year 2

ESTIMATED HOURS for Year 3

ESTIMATED HOURS for Year 4

ESTIMATED HOURS for Year 5

Total Hours

Task Order Project Manager



Yes

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]



Applications Engineer



No

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]



Network Engineer (Intermediate)



No

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]

[enter hours]



..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..



..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..





Requirements

Place of Work & Client if Appropriate

Dates for each cited Ref. (month/year) begin & end

Years of experience

Official Title

Description of exp. For each cited position, as they apply to the desired qualifications

Qualifications per Information stated in Section H.6.1 – Key Personnel











A minimum TS/SCI security clearance











B.A. or B.S. degree or equivalent experience.











Minimum 8 years of experience managing programs of a similar size and complexity, including those within a multiple task order environment which interface with multiple Government agencies and industry partners.











Experience with harnessing, massing and fusing information, analysis, technology, interagency collaboration or training support to enable more precise attacks to defeat networks which employ IEDs.











Experience and ability to serve as the contractor’s single contract manager and represent the contractor in communications with the Government’s Contracting Officer, Government management personnel and customer agency representatives.











Experience and ability to formulate and enforce work standards, assign contractor schedules, review work discrepancies, supervise personnel and communicate policies, purposes and goals of the organization to subordinates.













Direct Labor 

Category (EXAMPLE DATA)

Hourly Rate

(Unloaded)

Number 

of Hours

Total Dollars

























TOTAL Direct Labor

















Cost Base

Rate

Total

Direct Labor Overhead







Fringe Benefits (if any)







TOTAL Overhead & Fringe

















Cost Base

Rate

Total

G&A







TOTAL COSTS

















Cost Base

Rate

Total

FCCM (if any)







Base Award Fee







Maximum Award Fee







Total Cost Plus Maximum Award Fee

















Cost Base

Rate

Total

Other Direct Costs   







ODC G&A







Total ODC plus G&A















TOTAL Cost Plus Maximum Award Fee and ODCs









Direct Labor 

Category

Year 1

Cost

Year 2 Cost

Year 3 Cost

Year 4 Cost

Year 5 Cost

Total Yrs.1-5











































TOTAL Direct Labor









































Direct Labor Overhead













Fringe Benefits (if any)













TOTAL Overhead & Fringe









































G&A













TOTAL COSTS









































FCCM (if any)













Base Award Fee













Maximum Award Fee













Total Cost Plus Maximum Award Fee









































Other Direct Costs













ODC G&A













Total ODC plus G&A



























TOTAL Cost Plus Maximum Award Fee and ODCs















Direct Labor 

Category

Year 1

Cost

Year 2 Cost

Year 3 Cost

Year 4 Cost

Year 5 Cost

Total Yrs.1-5











































TOTAL Direct Labor













































1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

PAGE

PAGE

OF

OF

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 

UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)











1

1

1

122

122

122

2.  CONTRACT NO.

2.  CONTRACT NO.

2.  CONTRACT NO.

2.  CONTRACT NO.

2.  CONTRACT NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

3.  SOLICITATION NO.

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

4.  TYPE OF SOLICITATION

5.  DATE ISSUED

5.  DATE ISSUED

5.  DATE ISSUED

5.  DATE ISSUED

5.  DATE ISSUED

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

6.  REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.











GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

GSC-QF0B-11-32373

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

  SEALED BID (IFB)

  NEGOTIATED (RFP)

07/29/11

07/29/11

07/29/11

07/29/11

07/29/11

















7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

7.  ISSUED BY

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE













8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

8.  ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

General Services Administration

FEDSIM - DoD Acquisition



 

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

ATTN: Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist 

          

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

NOTE:  In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

9.	Sealed offers in original and copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 2100 Crystal Drive, Suite 800, Arlington, VA 20406 until  August 29, 2011 local time 11:00 a.m. EST

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-10.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

A.  NAME

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.  TELEPHONE NO. (NO COLLECT CALLS)

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.  E-MAIL ADDRESS

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

EXT.

EXT.

michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

10.   FOR  INFORMATION CALL:  

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

Michael A. Chappelle, Contracting Officer

Joseph M. Flanigan, Contract Specialist

703

703

703

703

703

703

703

703

605

605

605

605

2656

2699

2656

2699

2656

2699

michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



michael.chappelle@gsa.gov 



11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

(x)

SEC.

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

(x)

SEC.

SEC.

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X

A

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

1

1

1

1

X

I

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

5

5

X

B

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

4

4

4

4

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

X

C

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

11

11

11

11

X

J

J

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

17

X

D

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

2

2

2

2

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X

E

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

3

3

3

3

X

K

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 

1

1

X

F

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

3

3

3

3







STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS





X

G

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

5

5

5

5

X

L

L

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

17

17

X

H

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

48

48

48

48

X

M

M

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

5

5

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:  Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

12.	In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within       calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:





















































14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS  (The offeror

acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION

for offerors and related documents numbered and dated:





















































15A.  NAME

15A.  NAME

15A.  NAME

CODE













FACILITY

FACILITY

FACILITY













16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

16.  NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

AND 

ADDRESS 

OF  OFFEROR

AND 

ADDRESS 

OF  OFFEROR

AND 

ADDRESS 

OF  OFFEROR

































































15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

17.  SIGNATURE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

18.  OFFER DATE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

EXT.

EXT.

EXT.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

















































  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

  15C.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER  SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

































AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

AWARD (To be completed by Government)

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.  ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

20.  AMOUNT

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.  ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION







































































22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.  AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) (       )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

 41 U.S.C. 253(c) (        )

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN

(4 copies unless otherwise specified)













24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

24.  ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE













25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

25.  PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE

















































































26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

27.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28.  AWARD DATE

28.  AWARD DATE

28.  AWARD DATE

28.  AWARD DATE

28.  AWARD DATE











































































































(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)











IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT:  Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION 

Previous edition not usable.

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

33-133

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)   

Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)