ATTACHMENT I



ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AND 

TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD ACADEMY (USCGA)



PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)



1.0  GENERAL.



1.1  Scope.  

The purpose of this contract is to obtain a single system enrollment management technology solution and associated technical support for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA) Admissions Division.  Specifically, the Contractor shall provide a single system enrollment management technology solution that manages students from inquiry through application and enrollment. 



A single technology solution is required to address the following needs: customer relationship management; online application for admission; travel, events and interview management; support; web interfaces and web forms; report management; and a volunteer portal. The solution must exchange data with USCGA’s campus enterprise system. 



1.2  BACKGROUND.  

USCGA Admissions currently relies on four separate information systems to provide an enrollment management technology solution: 

Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software 

Student and Volunteer web interface and portal (hosted off-site)

Externally hosted online application for admission 

Legacy campus enterprise system



The USCG Academy’s primary CRM software, College Board’s Recruitment PLUS, will be discontinued by College Board on October 31, 2013.  Therefore, USCGA requires an acceptable working replacement for Recruitment PLUS prior to the start of the 2012-2013 recruitment cycle, which begins in the spring of 2012. 



Additionally, the replacement of supplemental systems currently required in support of Recruitment PLUS is needed. Specifically, the USCGA currently uses a system called “I2E/I2V” to provide a web interface for prospective students, our admissions staff  of approximately 30 as well as approximately 1,000 volunteers. This system provides: event registration and management; online inquiry forms; web-site personalization; volunteer training; a volunteer portal; targeted email communication; sports forms; the targeting of students by interests (athletics and other extra-curricular interests);  applicant status updates; and data exchange with Recruitment PLUS.  The I2E/I2V system is contracted through June 30, 2012. 



A third component, an online application for admission is provided by CollegeNet. The application for admission provides all application services for the both the front-end (student) and back-end (Admissions staff) user. The contract with CollegeNet for the application for admission contract expires with the Class of 2016. 



USCGA has two admission application processes:

Application for admission to the summer program, Academy Introduction Mission (AIM), for rising HS seniors

Application for admission to the next incoming class (i.e Class of 2016)

The application for the AIM summer program is available from February 1st through April 1st. The application for admission to USCGA (four-year program) is available August 15th through February 1st. 





Recruitment PLUS interfaces and exchanges data with both I2E/I2V and USCGA’s campus enterprise system—ACADemy Information System (ACADIS).  



USCGA uses the Ektron content management system for managing content on the  pages. 

USCGA Admissions is also currently in the process of adding an enterprise document, imaging and workflow system.



USCGA Admissions staff includes approximately 30 staff members. USCGA Admissions staff travels regularly throughout the United States and its territories. In addition to the USCGA Admissions staff members, there are also approximately 1,000 Academy Admissions Partners who live throughout the United States, its territories and overseas. All Admissions staff and Academy Admissions Partners have access to the internet.



1.3  CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL.  



1.3.1  Project Manager.  The Contractor shall provide a Project Manager who shall be responsible for all Contractor work performed under this contract.  The Project Manager is further designated as Key by the Government (see PWS 1.4).



1.3.1.1  The Project Manager shall be a single point of contact for the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).  The name of the Project Manager, and the name(s) of any alternate(s) who shall act for the Contractor in the absence of the Project Manager, shall be provided to the Government as part of the Contractor's proposal.  During any absence of the Project Manager, only one alternate shall have full authority to act for the Contractor on all matters relating to work performed under this contract.  The Project Manager and all designated alternates shall be able to read, write, speak and understand English.   Additionally, the Contractor shall not replace the Project Manager without prior acknowledgement from the Contracting Officer.



1.3.1.2  The Project Manager shall be available to the COTR via telephone between the hours of 0800 and 1630 EST, Monday through Friday, and shall respond to a request for discussion or resolution of technical problems no later than the next business day.



1.3.2  Qualified Personnel.  The Contractor shall provide qualified personnel to perform all requirements specified in this contract.  



1.3.3  Employee Identification.  Contractor employees shall have valid identification on their person while visiting the USCGA. Visiting Contractor employees shall comply with all Government escort rules and requirements.  All Contractor employees shall identify themselves as Contractors when their status is not readily apparent and display identification when asked.



1.3.3.1  Contractor employees working on-site at the USCGA shall have valid identification on their person. All Contractor employees shall identify themselves as Contractors when their status is not readily apparent and display identification when asked.



1.3.4  Employee Conduct.  Contractor employees shall present a professional appearance at all times and their conduct shall not reflect discredit upon the United States, the Department of Homeland Security or the United States Coast Guard.  



1.3.5  Removing Employees for Misconduct or Security Reasons.  The Government may, at its sole discretion, direct the Contractor to remove any Contractor employee from U.S. Coast Guard facilities for misconduct or security reasons.  Removal does not relieve the Contractor of the responsibility to continue providing the services required under any contract awarded. The Contracting Officer will provide the Contractor with a written explanation to support any request to remove an employee.



1.4  KEY PERSONNEL.  

Before replacing any individual designated as Key by the Government, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer no less than 15 business days in advance, submit written justification for replacement, and provide the name and qualifications of any proposed substitute(s).  All proposed substitutes shall possess qualifications equal to or superior to those of the Key person being replaced.  The Contractor shall not replace Key Contractor personnel without acknowledgment from the Contracting Officer.  The Government may designate additional Contractor personnel as Key at the time of award.  



1.5  SECURITY.  



1.5.1 All hardware, software, and services provided must be compliant in accordance with 140-01 Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook 4300A.



1.5.2 The assurance of the security of unclassified facilities, Information Technology (IT) resources, and sensitive information during the acquisition process and contract performance are essential to the DHS mission. DHS Management Directive (MD) 11042.1 “Safeguarding Sensitive but Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information”, describes how contractors must handle sensitive but unclassified information. DHS MD 140.01 “Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook” prescribe policies and procedures on security for IT resources. Contractors shall comply with these policies and procedures, any replacement publications, or any other current or future DHS policies and procedures covering contractors specifically for all work  that require access to DHS facilities, IT resources or sensitive information. Contractors shall not use or redistribute any DHS information processed, stored, or transmitted by the contractor except as specified under this contract.



1.5.3 Interconnections between DHS and non-DHS IT systems shall be established only through controlled interfaces and via approved service providers. The controlled interfaces shall be accredited at the highest security level of information on the network.  Connections with other Federal agencies shall be documented based on interagency agreements; memoranda of understanding, service level agreements or interconnect service agreements. COMDTINST 5500.13 requires an ISA for all interconnections.



1.5.4 All hardware and software interfaces shall meet FIPS 140-2 and FIPS 197 Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256 encryption compliance.



1.5.5 All hardware and software shall be Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) compatible.



1.5.6 Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Resources (Jun 2006)



1.5.6.1 The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology (IT) security for all systems connected to a DHS network or operated by the Contractor for DHS, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services for which the Contractor must have physical or electronic access to sensitive information contained in DHS unclassified systems that directly support the agency's mission.



1.5.6.2 The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract.



1.5.6.2.1 Within 30 days after contract award, the contractor shall submit for approval its IT Security Plan, which shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal. The plan, as approved by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.



1.5.6.2.2 The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Computer Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.); the Government Information Security Reform Act of 2000; and the Federal Information Security 	Management Act of 2002; and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A-130.



1.5.6.2.3 The security plan shall specifically include instructions regarding handling and protecting sensitive information at the Contractor's site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor's computer systems), and the secure management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems.



1.5.6.3 Examples of tasks that require security provisions include—

Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DHS with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and

Access to DHS networks or computers at a level beyond that granted the general public (e.g., such as bypassing a firewall).



1.5.6.4 At the expiration of the contract, the contractor shall return all sensitive DHS information and IT resources provided to the contractor during the contract, and certify that all non-public DHS information has been purged from any contractor-owned system. Components shall conduct reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced.



1.5.6.5 Within 6 months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to DHS for approval by the DHS Contracting Officer. Accreditation will proceed according to the criteria of the DHS Sensitive System Policy Publication, 4300A (7.2 dated April 20, 2010) or any replacement publication, which the Contracting Officer will provide upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The contractor shall comply with the approved accreditation documentation.



1.5.7 Contractor Employee Access (Jun 2006)



1.5.7.1 Sensitive Information means any information, the loss, misuse, disclosure, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could adversely affect the national or homeland security interest, or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense, homeland security or foreign policy. This definition includes the following categories of information:



1.5.7.1.1 Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (Title II, Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto 	(Title 6, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 29) as amended, the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the PCII Program Manager or his/her designee);



1.5.7.1.2 Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as defined in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1520, as amended, “Policies and Procedures of Safeguarding and Control of SSI,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or his/her designee);



1.5.7.1.3 Information designated as “For Official Use Only,” which is unclassified information of a sensitive nature and the unauthorized 	disclosure of which could adversely impact a person’s privacy or welfare, the conduct of Federal programs, or other programs or 	operations essential to the national or homeland security interest; and



1.5.7.1.4 Any information that is designated “sensitive” or subject to other controls, safeguards or protections in accordance with subsequently adopted homeland security information handling procedures.



1.5.7.2 “Information Technology Resources” include, but are not limited to, computer equipment, networking equipment, telecommunications equipment, cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites, and internet sites.



1.5.7.3 Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. All contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to sensitive information or IT resources are required to have a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this contract unless this requirement is waived under Departmental procedures.



1.5.7.4 The Contracting Officer may require the contractor to prohibit individuals from working on the contract if the government deems their initial or continued employment contrary to the public interest for any reason, including, but not limited to, carelessness, insubordination, incompetence, or security concerns.



1.5.7.5 Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information. Therefore, the Contractor shall not disclose, orally or in writing, any sensitive information to any person unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. For those contractor employees authorized access to sensitive information, the contractor shall ensure that these persons receive training concerning the protection and disclosure of sensitive information both during and after contract performance.



1.5.7.6 The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources.



1.5.7.6 Each individual employed under the contract shall be a citizen of the United States of America, or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence as evidenced by a Permanent Resident Card (USCIS I-551). Any exceptions must be approved by the Department’s Chief Security Officer or designee.



1.5.7.6 Contractors shall identify in their proposals, the names and citizenship of all non-U.S. citizens proposed to work under the contract. Any additions or deletions of non-U.S. citizens after contract award shall also be reported to the contracting officer.





1.6  PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE.  

The period of performance for this contract is one year from the date of award, with four (4) one-year option periods. 



1.7  PLACE OF PERFORMANCE.  

The primary place of performance will be the Contractor’s facilities.



1.8  HOURS OF OPERATION.  

Business hours at the contractor’s facilities are at the discretion of the Contractor. Business meetings with Academy personnel must be scheduled during regular hours of operation, i.e. 0800 to 1630, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.  



1.9  Travel.  

Contractor travel beyond the minimum local commuting area of 50 miles from the primary place of performance will be required to support this contract.  The Government will not reimburse the Contractor for travel to the primary place of performance.  All travel required by the Government outside the local commuting area(s) will be reimbursed to the Contractor in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR).  In this contract, the local commuting area is defined as a temporary duty outside of the "primary place of performance", but within the vicinity surrounding it; and if the site is a minimum driving distance of less than 50 miles, by the most direct route, from the primary place of performance, the site is considered to be a part of the local commuting area.  The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining COTR approval (electronic mail is acceptable) for all reimbursable travel to include a budgeted amount in advance of each travel event.



1.9.1  Travel Locations or Limitations. All travel under this contract will be between the Contractor’s facilities and the USCGA in New London, CT, for implementation, training and meetings. All travel must be approved in advance by the COTR. 



1.10  KICK-OFF MEETING.  

The Contractor shall attend a Kick-Off Meeting with the Contracting Officer and the COTR not later than five (5) business days after the date of award.  The purpose of the Kick-Off Meeting, which will be chaired by the Contracting Officer, is to discuss technical and contracting objectives of this contract and review the Contractor's project plan.  The Kick-Off Meeting will take place by phone conference and must include all Key Personnel for the execution of this PWS.



1.11  PROJECT PLAN.  

The Contractor shall provide a draft Project Plan at the Kick-Off Meeting for Government review and comment.  The Contractor shall provide a final Project Plan (which addresses the implementation and timeline) to the COTR not later than five (5) business days after USCGA feedback is received.



1.12  STATUS REPORTS.  

The Project Manager shall provide a monthly status report to the Contracting Officer and COTR via electronic mail.  This report shall include a summary of all Contractor work performed, including an assessment of technical progress, schedule status, any travel conducted and any Contractor concerns or recommendations for the previous month’s period.  Status reports should include the following:

Work completed since last report

Work currently in progress

Next steps

Potential hurdles/concerns/comments

Questions for COTR/items needed



1.13  STATUS MEETINGS.  

Status meetings will typically be conducted by phone or collaborative electronic meeting systems and shall be initiated by the Contractor following each monthly status report (see PWS 1.12) as clarification of the written report and to address any questions. In addition to these scheduled status meetings, either the Contractor or COTR may request additional meetings to discuss status, exchange information and resolve emergent technical problems and issues as needed. All status meetings shall be scheduled at least 24 hours in advance. 



1.14  GENERAL REPORT REQUIREMENTS.  

The Contractor shall provide all written reports in electronic format with read/write capability using applications that are compatible with Coast Guard Standard Workstation (Windows Servers and Microsoft Office Applications).



1.15  PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY.  

This PWS includes a Performance Requirements Summary (PRS).  In general, the PRS sets forth the expected outcomes (objectives) of the contract, the service(s) required of the Contractor to achieve the objectives, a performance standard per outcome, and a plan for a reduction in payment in the event the Contractor does not meet the performance standard.  The PRS is not an exclusive remedy and inclusion of the PRS does not preclude the Government from using any other remedy available by law or contract terms, including incentives/deductions/withholdings in payment in accordance with any clause for inspection of services.



1.16  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

All Contractor developed processes and procedures and other forms of intellectual property first developed under this contract shall be considered Government property.



1.16.1 All documentation, photography and electronic data and information collected by the Contractor and entered into or generated in support of this contract shall be considered Government property, and shall be returned to the Government at the end of the performance period.



1.17  PROTECTION OF INFORMATION.



1.17.1 Contractor access to unclassified, but Security Sensitive Information will be required under this contract. Contractor employees shall safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or dissemination. Additional details for handling Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (SPII) can be found in “The Handbook for Safeguarding Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information at the Department of Homeland Security” and must be adhered to at all times. 



1.17.2 Contractor access to proprietary information is required under this contract.  Contractor employees shall safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or dissemination in accordance with DHS MD 11042.1, Safeguarding Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) Information.  SBU includes information categorized by DHS or other government agencies as: For Official Use Only (FOUO); Official Use Only (OUO); Sensitive Homeland Security Information (SHSI); Limited Official Use (LOU); Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES); Safeguarding Information (SGI); Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI); and any other identifier used by other government agencies to categorize information as sensitive but unclassified.  The Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor personnel having access to business or procurement sensitive information sign a non-disclosure agreement (DHS Form 11000-6). 



1.17.3 The Contractor shall continue to ensure employees safeguard this information when the new Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) framework replaces the Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) categorization. 



1.18  SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE.

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220) requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology (EIT), they must ensure that it is accessible to people with disabilities. Federal employees and members of the public who have disabilities must have equal access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that enjoyed by non-disabled Federal employees and members of the public. 

All EIT deliverables within this work statement shall comply with the applicable technical and functional performance criteria of Section 508 unless exempt. Specifically, the following applicable EIT accessibility standards have been identified: 

1.18.1 Section 508 Applicable EIT Accessibility Standards.  36 CFR 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems, applies to all EIT software applications and operating systems procured or developed under this work statement including but not limited to GOTS and COTS software. In addition, this standard is to be applied to Web-based applications when needed to fulfill the functional performance criteria. This standard also applies to some Web based applications as described within 36 CFR 1194.22. 

36 CFR 1194.22 Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, applies to all Web-based deliverables, including documentation and reports procured or developed under this work statement. When any Web application uses a dynamic (non-static) interface, embeds custom user control(s), embeds video or multimedia, uses proprietary or technical approaches such as, but not limited to, Flash or Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) then 1194.21 Software standards also apply to fulfill functional performance criteria. 

36 CFR 1194.24 Video and Multimedia Products, applies to all video and multimedia products that are procured or developed under this work statement. Any video or multimedia presentation shall also comply with the software standards (1194.21) when the presentation is through the use of a Web or Software application interface having user controls available.

36 CFR 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria, applies to all EIT deliverables regardless of delivery method. All EIT deliverable shall use technical standards, regardless of technology, to fulfill the functional performance criteria. 

36 CFR 1194.41 Information Documentation and Support, applies to all documents, reports, as well as help and support services. To ensure that documents and reports fulfill the required 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria, they shall comply with the technical standard associated with Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications at a minimum. In addition, any help or support provided in this work statement that offer telephone support, such as, but not limited to, a help desk shall have the ability to transmit and receive messages using TTY. 

1.18.2 Section 508 Applicable Exceptions.  Exceptions for this work statement have been determined by DHS and only the exceptions described herein may be applied. Any request for additional exceptions shall be sent to the COTR and determination will be made in accordance with DHS MD 4010.2. DHS has identified the following exceptions that may apply: 36 CFR 1194.3(b) Incidental to Contract, all EIT that is exclusively owned and used by the contractor to fulfill this work statement does not require compliance with Section 508. This exception does not apply to any EIT deliverable, service or item that will be used by any Federal employee(s) or member(s) of the public. This exception only applies to those contractors assigned to fulfill the obligations of this work statement and for the purposes of this requirement, are not considered members of the public. 



1.18.3 Section 508 Compliance Requirements.  36 CFR 1194.2(b) (COTS/GOTS products), When procuring a product, each agency shall procure products which comply with the provisions in this part when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are developed in response to a Government solicitation. Agencies cannot claim a product as a whole is not commercially available because no product in the marketplace meets all the standards. If products are commercially available that meet some but not all of the standards, the agency must procure the product that best meets the standards. When applying this standard, all procurements of EIT shall have documentation of market research that identify a list of products or services that first meet the agency business needs, and from that list of products or services, an analysis that the selected product met more of the accessibility requirements than the non-selected products as required by FAR 39.2. Any selection of a product or service that meets less accessibility standards due to a significant difficulty or expense shall only be permitted under an undue burden claim and requires authorization from the DHS Office of Accessible Systems and Technology (OAST) in accordance with DHS MD 4010. All tasks for testing of functional and/or technical requirements must include specific testing for Section 508 compliance, and must use DHS Office of Accessible Systems and Technology approved testing methods and tools. For information about approved testing methods and tools send an email to .



2.0  GOVERNMENT TERMS AND DEFINITIONS.



2.1 ACADIS  Academy Information System 

2.2 AIM  Academy Introduction Mission   

2.3 COTR   Contracting Officer Technical Representative

2.4 CRM – Customer Relationship Management

2.5 SaaS – Software as a Service

2.6 SPII  Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information

2.7 USCGA  United States Coast Guard Academy



3.0  GOVERNMENT FURNISHED RESOURCES.  

The Government will provide the following information and property to the Contractor for work required under this contract:



3.1 Government Furnished Information. 

The Government will provide the following information to the Contractor for work required under this contract:



3.1.1 Class of 2016 student admission application content including rules, supplemental forms and handbooks



3.1.2. Summer Program 2012 application content



3.1.4 Recruitment PLUS export files for students, organizations, and volunteers (including historical data).



3.1.5 Content for all current online inquiry forms



3.1.6 Access to current information systems to view content and functionality (read only access)



3.1.7 USCGA Visual Identity Guide and branding elements



3.1.8 Content for volunteer portal, including all event form and interview evaluation form content.



3.1.9 Content for volunteer online test



3.1.10 Content management templates (used in Ektron) as well as Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). 



3.1.11 The Handbook for Safeguarding Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information at the Department of Homeland Security



3.2 Government Furnished Property.

Not applicable. 



4.0  CONTRACTOR FURNISHED PROPERTY.  

The Contractor shall furnish all facilities, materials, equipment and services necessary to fulfill the requirements of this contract, except for the Government Furnished Resources specified in PWS 3.0 and 5.0 of this work statement.



5.0  REQUIREMENTS.  

USCGA Admissions has a need for a single system enrollment management technology solution that includes: customer relationship management; online application for admission; travel, events and interview management; support; web interfaces and web forms; report management; and a volunteer portal. The solution must exchange data with USCGA’s campus enterprise system (ACADIS).



The Contractor shall provide a hosted solution, such as Software as a Service (SaaS) model.  Access to functionality in the system will be role-based. 



5.1  CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT.  

The Contractor shall provide a system that includes customer relationship management functionality as used by higher education institutions.



5.1.1 Admissions and Enrollment Management. The Contractor shall provide a system which manages students from inquiry through application to enrollment. 



5.1.2 The Contractor shall provide a system that allows communication with students, organizations, and volunteers through multiple communication channels. 



5.1.3 The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for targeting and segmenting prospective student populations. 



5.1.4 The Contractor shall provide a system to upload and manage lists of prospective students, managing an inquiry pool of up to 25,000 students per year. 



5.1.5 The Contractor shall provide a system to target best-fit students. 



5.1.6 The Contractor shall provide the ability to build and execute unique communication plans for prospective students, families, influencers, organizations and through multiple communication methods.

5.1.7 The Contractor shall provide a system to manage and track communications to different audiences through multiple channels.



5.1.8 The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for scheduling and automating personalized and customized communications, in addition to allowing for ad hoc and individual communications.



5.1.9 The Contractor shall provide a system to generate personalized mail following events such as interviews or event attendance.



5.1.10 The Contractor shall provide a system to allow for communication based on parameters such as high school graduation year, athletic and extracurricular interests, gender, geographical locations, etc.



5.1.11 The Contractor shall provide a system that tracks communication performance metrics. 



5.1.12 The Contractor shall provide a system to track effectiveness of communications, such as response rates.



5.1.13 The Contractor shall provide the ability to stop or shift to different communication campaigns when certain criteria are met, while stopping duplicate communications. 



5.1.14 The Contractor shall provide the ability for those receiving communications to opt out. 



5.1.15 The Contractor shall provide a system which has real-time address verification or address cleansing capabilities for postal addresses.



5.1.16 The Contractor shall provide a system which sends emails through a white-listing service. 



5.1.17The Contractor shall provide access to communication templates to be used during messaging.



5.1.18 The Contractor shall provide a system that provides student, organization and volunteer activity tracking. 



5.1.19 The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for activities to be added automatically and manually to a student’s, an organization’s or a volunteer’s record. 



5.1.20 The Contractor shall provide a process for identifying and managing duplicate records.



5.1.21 The Contractor shall provide a system that uniquely identifies and tracks a person throughout the recruitment and admission process without using a social security number. 



5.1.22 The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for creating, defining, maintaining, storing, retrieving, displaying, and updating customized data elements.



5.1.23 The Contractor shall provide automatic assignments based on territory for inbound inquiry/lead management support.



5.1.24 The Contractor shall ensure activities completed online are added to the appropriate activity log. 



5.1.25 The Contractor shall provide a telerecruiting module that allows for scripts to be stored, call assignments managed and responses tracked. 



5.1.26 The Contractor shall provide the ability to search for students by name, or a system generated ID or personal information. 



5.2  ONLINE APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION.  

The Contractor shall provide a system that allows students to apply for admission to the USCGA and the USCGA summer program. 



5.2.1  The Contractor shall provide a system that supports up to 10,000 student applications per year for admission to  USCGA. 



5.2.2 The Contractor shall provide a system that supports up to 6,000 students per year to the USCGA summer program. 



5.2.3 The Contractor shall maintain a secure, online application.



5.2.4 The Contractor shall provide an application that checks for eligibility for admission, as required by USCGA.



5.2.5 The Contractor shall provide an application that allows students to save their application as they move from page to page.



5.2.6 The Contractor shall provide an application that allows students to print and save their application upon completion. 



5.2.7 The Contractor shall provide an application system that allows students to retrieve their login and password if it is forgotten, to access their application.



5.2.8 The Contractor shall provide online access to students to check the status of their application 



5.2.8 The Contractor shall provide the ability for applicants to check the status of submitted additional required documents (such as Physical Fitness Exam and teacher recommendations). 



5.2.9 The Contractor shall provide secure online access to volunteers to check the status of students’ applications. 



5.2.10 The Contractor shall provide a back-end system to allow Admissions staff to view, print and save students’ applications for processing.



5.2.11 The Contractor shall provide for a methodology for transferring admissions application data to USCGA’s legacy campus enterprise system (ACADIS). 



5.3  TRAVEL, EVENTS AND INTERVIEW MANAGEMENT.  



5.3.1  The Contractor shall provide a system which allows Admissions Officers to manage and track travel.  



5.3.2  The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for tracking events (in planning, occurring, cancelled and occurred) and controlling event registration.



5.3.3  The Contractor shall allow prospective students and their families to sign up online for events on and off-campus. 



5.3.4  The Contractor shall provide the ability to track student and accompanying guests separately, but allowing both to be used for capacity management.



5.3.5  The Contractor shall provide a system that provides automated event reminders and updates.



5.3.6  The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for managing number of attendees. 



5.3.7  The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for the ability to create a waitlist for events once capacity has been reached. 



5.3.8  The Contractor shall provide a system that allows for inviting attendees to events through a closed registration process as well as allowing attendees to register for events open to everyone. 



5.3.8  The Contractor shall provide a system that links visits and fairs to both staff and organizations for historical tracking and reporting. 



5.3.9  The Contractor shall provide a system for applicants to request an interview. 



5.3.10 The Contractor shall allow volunteers to submit interview reports online.



5.3.11  The Contractor shall provide a system for volunteers to sign up online to work at a college fair or an Admissions event.



5.3.12 The Contractor shall provide a system for staff to manage event attendance by volunteers. 



5.4  WEB INTERFACES AND WEB FORMS. 



5.4.1 The Contractor shall provide online inquiry form(s) that capture and feed data in real-time to the database.



5.4.2 The Contractor shall provide the ability for Admissions staff to easily update the inquiry form(s).



5.4.3 The Contractor shall ensure all public-facing web pages and forms match the look and feel of  pages.



5.4.4 The Contractor shall provide the ability for students to submit and update geo-demographic, biographic and/or academic data.



5.4.5 The Contractor shall provide an online FAQ response capability. 



5.4.6 The Contractor shall provide the ability to create a standard response library, allowing users to search using key words/phrases. 



5.5 REPORT MANAGEMENT. 



5.5.1 The Contractor shall provide a range of pre-developed analytic reports with the ability to create customized reports by non-IT professionals.



5.5.2 The Contractor shall provide an analytics package to analyze the effectiveness and Return on Investment (ROI) of communications campaigns and individual communications.



5.5.3 The Contractor shall provide the ability for Admissions staff to create ad-hoc reports.



5.5.4 The Contractor shall provide a scheduling system for reports (where reports can be scheduled, run, and produced in batch mode in future dates).



5.5.5 The Contractor shall provide the ability to access data for reporting purposes, including custom data fields.



5.5.6 The Contractor shall provide the ability to save reports for trend analysis.



5.5.7 The Contractor shall provide the ability to send reports via email or view in applications outside of the system. 



5.6 VOLUNTEER PORTAL. 



5.6.1 The Contractor shall provide an informational web site for potential volunteers.



5.6.2 The Contractor shall provide a registration page for interested volunteers, submitting data to the database.



5.6.3 The Contractor shall provide a secure online portal for up to 1200 approved volunteers nationwide.



5.6.4 The Contractor shall provide a system for managing volunteers, including approving, updating information and monitoring activities.



5.6.5 The Contractor shall provide the ability for USCGA Admissions staff to easily update content that is displayed on the Volunteer Portal.



5.6.6 The Contractor shall provide the ability for volunteers to complete an online test consisting of multiple choice questions, allowing up to five retries to achieve a passing score. 



5.6.7 The Contractor shall provide the ability for USCGA Admissions staff to easily update the content of the multiple choice questions. 



5.6.8 The Contractor shall provide an automated scoring capability for the volunteer’s online test and automated notification of results of test.



5.6.9 The Contractor shall allow volunteers to submit event reports (including interview summaries) online.



5.6.10 The Contractor shall provide USCGA staff with the ability to view and print submitted reports, including interview summaries. 



5.6.11 The Contractor shall provide an online form for volunteers to request supplies.



5.6.12 The Contractor shall provide the ability for events (such as college fairs) to be posted on the Volunteer Portal and made available to volunteers to sign up for. 



5.6.13 The Contractor shall provide an email acknowledgement system when a form has been submitted or an action completed online by a volunteer.



5.6.14 The Contractor shall provide the ability for Admissions staff to manage attendance at events (such as college fairs and interviews).



5.6.15 The Contractor shall provide the ability for volunteers to submit and update geo-demographic, biographic data.



5.6.16 The Contractor shall provide for configurable role-based functionality on the Volunteer Portal. 



5.6.17 The Contractor shall provide the ability to check a volunteer’s credentials at sign on to present either the online test or access to the Volunteer Portal. 



5.6.18 The Contractor shall provide an events management system that displays all active upcoming events in the volunteer’s home state, with an option to view events in other states. 



5.6.19 The Contractor shall provide a search mechanism that allows volunteers to search for frequently asked questions by key word.



5.6.20 The Contractor shall provide volunteers with the ability to search and view contact information, entry year, and application status of students who have inquired and/or applied to the USCGA.



5.6.21 The Contractor shall provide volunteers with the ability to view status of student applications in a list format. 



5.6.22 The Contractor shall provide volunteers with the ability to search individually by a student’s last name, by state.



5.6.23 The Contractor shall provide volunteers with current student information (filtering out students who inquired or applied to past classes) 



5.6.24 The Contractor shall provide volunteers access to basic contact information of other active volunteers, sorted by state.



5.6.25 The Contractor shall provide a Volunteer Portal which includes a Resources section consisting of downloadable documents and hyperlinks.



5.6.26 The Contractor shall provide USCGA staff with the ability to easily update and populate the Resources area of the Volunteer Portal. 



5.6.27 The Contractor shall provide USCGA staff with the ability to manage updates to scheduled events and the training module.

 

5.7  TECHNICAL SUPPORT. 



5.7.1  Training.



5.7.1.1  The Contractor shall provide a minimum of two separate on-campus training sessions for approximately 30 Academy personnel. 



5.7.1.1.1 The initial site visit shall provide a general overview of the system. During that visit, the Contractor shall gather feedback from Academy personnel regarding end-user preferences. General user training shall be provided on the first day to include the entire group of approximately 30 Academy personnel.



5.7.1.1.2 The second site visit shall be no less than two business days. The second day of training shall include work group focused training. Minimum training subject areas shall included the following: system administration, student record management, partner record management, communications flow, reporting, and application management.



5.7.1.2  The Contractor shall provide online training or self-guided tutorials or system knowledge databases.



5.7.1.3  The Contractor shall provide training when new system features and functions are added.



5.7.1.4  The Contractor shall provide system documentation/user guides.



5.7.2 Help Desk. 



5.7.2.1 The Contractor shall provide access to help desk functionality via phone and email during normal academy business hours: 0800 to 1630, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.  



5.7.2.2 The Contractor shall make direct phone response (direct person to person contact or voicemail message) within 2 business hours of notification that there is a problem and will address the issue until it is resolved



5.7.3 Maintenance/updates.



5.7.3.1 The Contractor shall provide the ability to upgrade the system to a higher release while maintaining any system customization. 



5.7.4 Data transfer and conversion. 



5.7.4.1The Contractor shall provide a system to allow for real-time and batch import and export data to USCGA’s campus enterprise system (ACADIS). 



5.7.4.2 The Contractor shall provide the ability to create customizable imports and exports. 



5.7.4.3 The Contractor shall provide a plan for transferring/converting data currently residing in Recruitment PLUS to the Contractor’s system. 



5.7.4.4 At the completion of the contract, the Contractor shall perform data extraction of all USCGA data in either an SQL Database .bak files or a flat file. If a flat file is created, the Contractor shall provide a script file of needed tables and schema. 



5.7.5 Third Party Data Integration. The Contractor shall provide standard data integration bridges or data transfer programs for SAT and ACT data. 



5.7.6 Security. 



5.7.6.1 The Contractor shall provide a system that provides configurable role-based views.



5.7.6.2 The Contractor shall ensure that sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII) data is encrypted in transit and at rest.







5.7.7 Logins/Role-Based Functionality. 



5.7.7.1 The Contractor shall provide configurable role-based access to system functionality and web portal.



5.7.7.2 The Contractor shall provide secure, unique logins.



5.7.7.2 The Contractor shall provide the ability to setup different levels of permissions for customizing roles. 



5.7.8 Hosting. 



5.7.8.1 The Contractor shall provide a hosted solution that uses a secure encryption method to ensure data transferred is unreadable to anyone except the individual user. 



5.7.8.2 The Contractor shall provide support for upgrades and regular backups.



5.7.8.3 The Contractor shall ensure the hosted environment is monitored on a 24x7 basis, providing fault-tolerant redundancy to minimize downtime.  The Contractor provided hosting solution shall be fully functional on a 24 hour/day, 7 day/week basis. The Contractor shall not exceed 48 cumulative hours of annual downtime due to system failure or system hosting failure (does not pertain to failures resulting from Government systems or personnel).



5.7.8.4 The Contractor shall provide a disaster recovery/contingency plan for protecting/backing up computing facilities.



5.7.8.5 The Contractor shall provide a server which meets industry and Coast Guard standards for security, speed and reliability.



5.7.9 Source Code or APIs. The Contractor shall provide information regarding the availability of source codes or Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). 



5.7.10 Administration. The Contractor shall provide simple end user ability to monitor system performance.





5.8  OTHER REQUIREMENTS. 



5.8.1  DHS Enterprise Architecture Compliance.



5.8.1.1  All solutions and services shall meet DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures. Specifically, the contractor shall comply with the following Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) and Coast Guard Enterprise Architecture (CGEA) requirements:



5.8.1.1.1 All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA and CGEA.



5.8.1.1.2 All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile.



5.8.1.1.2 Description information for all data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information Repository.



5.8.1.1.3 In compliance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates, all network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification, upgrade, or replacement.



5.8.1.1.4 All Information Technology assets being developed, procured, or acquired shall be IPv6 capable.







6.0 REFERENCES. None.







Note:  PWS 7.0 begins on the next page.
7.0  DELIVERABLES. 

The Contractor shall consider items in BOLD as having mandatory due dates. 





Note:  PWS 8.0 begins on the next page.

8.0  PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY (PRS).  

The PRS table below reflects the deliverables considered by the Coast Guard to be important for the successful performance of this contract.  This includes the expected standards of performance.  The PRS is not an exclusive remedy and inclusion of the PRS does not preclude the Government from using any other remedy available by law or contract terms, including incentives/reductions in payment in accordance with any clause for inspection of services.









ITEM

PWS

DELIVERABLE / EVENT

DUE BY

System Installation Deliverables

System Installation Deliverables

System Installation Deliverables

System Installation Deliverables

1

1.10

Kick-Off Meeting

NLT 5 Business Days from date of award

2

1.11

Draft Contractor Project Plan

Presented during Kick-Off Meeting

3

1.11

Final Contractor Project Plan

NLT than 5 Business Days from date USCGA draft feedback is received

4

5.7.4.3

Plan for transferring/converting RP data to new system 

Presented as part of Final Project Plan (PWS 1.11)

5

1.12

Status Reports

NLT the 5th of each new month for the previous month’s work

6

5.1.4

File format recommendations for standard imports

NLT than 8 Business Days from date of award

7

5.7.1

System Overview/Feedback Session

NLT 30 Calendar Days from date of award

8

5.7.8

Plan for System Hosting

NLT 45 Calendar Days from date of award

9

5.7.1

On-Site System Launch Training

NLT Calendar Week of System Launch

10

5.0

System Launch (Fully functional except for Class of 2016 Application)

May 18, 2012

AIM Application Deliverables

AIM Application Deliverables

AIM Application Deliverables

AIM Application Deliverables

11

5.2.2

AIM Application Requirements Timeline (to launch by 2/1/12)

NLT than 10 Business Days from date of award

12

5.2.2

AIM application available for testing (pre-production)

January 3, 2012

13

5.2

Fully functional AIM Application Available to Student Applicants

February 1, 2012

Class of 2016 Application Deliverables

Class of 2016 Application Deliverables

Class of 2016 Application Deliverables

Class of 2016 Application Deliverables

14

5.2.1

Online Application Requirements Timeline (to launch by 8/15/12)

NLT than 14 Business Days from date of award

15

5.2.1

Online application available for testing (pre-production)

July 9, 2012

16

5.2.11

Methodology for transferring applicant data to ACADIS

July 19, 2012

17

5.2.11

Applicant Test File for ACADIS Import (from Pre-Production)

August  6, 2012

18

5.2

Fully functional Class of 2016 Application Available to Student Applicants

August 15, 2012



ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES 

FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD ACADEMY (USCGA)

ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES 

FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD ACADEMY (USCGA)

ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES 

FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD ACADEMY (USCGA)

ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES 

FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD ACADEMY (USCGA)

Objectives

Required Service

Performance Standard

Incentives/Reductions

1. Fully functional and fully secure Contractor provided hosting solution 

The Contractor shall select a fully functional, fully secure hosting method, shall routinely monitor its performance and shall immediately resolve any system failure issue (PWS 5.7.8.3)

The Contractor provided hosting solution must be fully functional on a 24 hour/day, 7 day/week basis. The Contractor shall not exceed 48 cumulative hours of annual downtime due to system failure or system hosting failure (does not pertain to failures resulting from Government systems or personnel). 

Failure to meet schedule or provide acceptable deliverables will result in corrective action as determined appropriate by the contracting officer in consultation with the COTR.  The range of possible actions includes re-performance of work, withholding payment, renegotiating the schedule in conjunction with appropriate consideration, and partial or total termination for convenience/default.

 2. Timely and effective response to help desk issues

The Contractor shall make direct phone response (direct person to person contact or voicemail message) within 2 business hours of notification that there is a problem and will continue to address the issue until it is resolved (PWS 5.7.2.1)

The Contactor shall make direct phone response within 2 business hours of notification of problem. All problems will be resolved within 2 business days (unless Government causes delay)

Failure to meet schedule or provide acceptable deliverables will result in corrective action as determined appropriate by the contracting officer in consultation with the COTR.  The range of possible actions includes re-performance of work, withholding payment, renegotiating the schedule in conjunction with appropriate consideration, and partial or total termination for convenience/default.

3.  Effective project management of system installation

The Contractor shall provide a professional, technically skilled Project Manager to ensure that all elements of this contract are being delivered in a timely, thorough and satisfactorily manner (PWS 1.3.1; 5.0)

The Project Manager shall ensure that all elements of the project plan are delivered within established deadlines (unless Government causes delay)

Failure to meet schedule or provide acceptable deliverables will result in corrective action as determined appropriate by the contracting officer in consultation with the COTR.  The range of possible actions includes re-performance of work, withholding payment, renegotiating the schedule in conjunction with appropriate consideration, and partial or total termination for convenience/default.



4. No disclosures of privacy or restricted information to unauthorized personnel.

The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring system controls are sufficient to prevent the disclosure of privacy and other restricted information to unauthorized personnel (i.e. data on race and ethnicity disclosed to a hiring official during the recruitment process)  (PWS 1.17 and 5.0).

Zero incidents resulting in unauthorized disclosure of privacy and other restricted information (unless caused by Government or other non-Contractor user error)

A progressive series of reductions will apply for each documented incident that results in the unauthorized disclosure of privacy information to unauthorized personnel.  For the first incident, a $5,000 reduction will apply.  For any and each subsequent incident, the Government reserves the right to impose a $10,000 reduction or terminate the contract.  ATTACHMENT II

HSCG23-11-R-PTT750

CLAUSES AND PROVISIONS





I. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES 



52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) – This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the Offeror and submitted with its offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its offer. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses: 



http://www.acqnet.gov/far 

http://www.dhs.gov/xopnbiz/regulations/index.shtm 



52.252-2: CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) – This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses: 



https://www.acquisition.gov/far/

http://www.dhs.gov/xopnbiz/regulations/index.shtm 



FAR Provisions and Clauses Included by Reference: 



NUMBER 	TITLE/DATE 

52.202-1 	Definitions (Jul 2004)

52.203-3 	Gratuities (Apr 1984)

52.203-5 	Covenant Against Contingent Fees (Apr1984) 

52.203-7 	Anti-Kickback Procedures (Jul1995) 

52.203-11 	Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain (Sep 2007) 

52.203-12 	Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sep 2007)

52.204-2	Security Requirements (Aug 1996)

52.204-4	Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (May 2011)  

52.204-7	Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008) 

52.204-9 	Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sep 2007) 

52.212-1 	Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Items (Jun 2008)

52.212-4 	Contract Terms & Conditions – Commercial Items (Jun 2010)

52.222-39 	Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (DEC 2004)

52.223-6	Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001)

52.224-1	Privacy Act Notification (apr 1984)

52.224-2	Privacy Act (apr 1984)

52.225-25 	Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran-Certification (Sep 2010) 

52.227-14	Rights In Data – General (Dec 2007)

52.229-3	Federal, State, and Local Taxes (Apr 2003)

52.234-1	Payments (Apr 1984)	

52.232-11 	Extras (Apr 1984) 

52.233-1 	Disputes (Jul 2002) 

52.242-13	Bankruptcy (Jul 1995) 

52.244-6	Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Dec 2010)

Addendum to FAR Provisions and Clauses:



(1) Addendum to FAR 52.212-1 is as follows: 



INSTRUCTION FOR PROPOSAL CONTENT: The Offeror’s proposal shall be divided into three volumes. Volume 1 shall propose a technical approach to the contract requirement; Volume 2 shall propose a price offer and Volume 3 shall demonstrate relevant past performance. All three Volumes of the Offeror’s proposal shall indicate: (1) the solicitation number: HSCG23-11-R- PTT750; (2) the time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; and (3) the name, email address, mailing address and telephone number of the Offeror. 



Volume 1: The Offeror shall demonstrate understanding and technical approach to meet the requirements of this solicitation as outlined in the Performance Work Statement. Volume I shall contain the following non-technical information:



(1) Representations and Certifications (52.212.3)-Shall be filled out.



(2) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Proposed Debarment, and Other Responsibility Matters (52.209-5) -Shall be provided.



(3) Small Business Program Representations (52.219-1) -Shall be provided.



(4) Any amendments to the solicitation (signed SF-30). Offerors shall include a completed, signed copy of the entire solicitation with all appropriate “fill-in” sections completed. If any exceptions are taken to the terms and conditions of the solicitation, they shall be clearly set forth in a cover letter; and they shall be explained by the Offeror with the understanding that the exceptions may render the Offeror’s proposal unacceptable to the government.



Volume 2: Volume 2 shall propose a price offer 



The Offeror shall submit the proposal on a firm-fixed price basis. Volume II shall contain the following information:



(1) The Schedule (SF 1449) – The Schedule shall be filled out with a summation of the total contract price for contract ceiling purposes. The Schedule shall also be signed and dated in block 30. 



Volume 3: Volume 3 shall demonstrate relevant past performance. The offeror shall provide past performance information for services directly related and relevant to the services to be performed under the PWS. To be considered relevant, the services must have been performed within the past three years. Volume II shall contain the following information:



(1) Attachment III: Past Performance Evaluation Document - In addition to the requirements listed in FAR Part 52.212-1 (b) (10), Offerors shall submit three references for each CLIN utilizing Attachment III Past Performance Evaluation Document. Offers shall submit the Past Performance Evaluation Documents along with their proposals. Offerors shall complete SECTION A of the Past Performance Evaluation Document. SECTION B shall be completed by the Government during proposal evaluations. Offerors shall submit the Past Performance Evaluation Documents, with Section A completed, with the proposal. If there is no past performance information, please provide the following statement in your proposal "No Past Performance information available". 



The USCG reserves the right to utilize past performance information other than the information submitted with the proposals received in conducting the evaluation. A Contractor without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance, but will receive a neutral rating. The USCG may consider past performance information regarding predecessor companies or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement when such information is considered relevant.



PROPOSAL SUBMISSION: The Proposal shall be submitted via email to  on or before 14:00 Eastern Time on 8 SEPTEMBER 2011. 



PERIOD FOR ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS: The Offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of the offer, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 



SOLICITATION QUESTIONS: Questions shall be submitted NLT 14:00 Eastern Time, 22 AUG 2011, with Government answers/responses posted as soon as is feasibly possible within the week.  Questions shall be submitted to the POC via email at  and . Please submit questions to both email addresses in order to ensure a response.  No questions shall be accepted after 22 AUG 2011 in order to provide the Government and the Offeror adequate time to prepare for the proposal submission.  



Note: The Government will not pay for costs incurred in the preparation and submission of proposals or other costs incurred in response to this announcement. 



(2) Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation—Commercial Items (Jan 1999) 

(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:

Factor 1 – Technical Approach

Factor 2 – Relevant Past Performance

Factor 3 – Price



Basis for Award



The basis for award will be best value, which will be based on consideration of the following factors (in descending order of importance): (a) Technical Approach; (b) Relevant Past Performance; (c) price.  



All non-price factors when combined are more important than price.



The Government may elect to pay a premium price to select an Offeror whose non-price evaluation factors are superior. As the technical proposals become closer in quality, price increases in relative importance. 



The technical evaluation will be attained through a determination and analysis of strengths, weaknesses, significant weaknesses, deficiencies, and risks of each proposal.  Technical risks will be included in the final evaluation of each factor and will not be evaluated as a separate factor.  In the assessment of technical risk, the Government evaluators will consider all available information.

 (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). 

(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. 

(End of provision) 





(3) Addendum to FAR 52.212-4 is as follows:



INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE:



In addition to 52.212-4 (a):



	a. IAW Section 7.0 of the PWS, the Contractor shall send all required contract deliverables to the Contracting 	Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) via e-mail. The Contracting Officer (CO) and the Contract Specialist 	(KS) shall be carbon copied on the e-mail. Contact information for the COTR and the KS shall be provided under 	separate cover at time of award. As an alternative, only if e-mail is not available, the Contractor may mail contract 	deliverables to the below address:



Commandant (CG-443)

2100 2nd Street, SW RM 6507 Stop 7901	

Washington, DC 20593-7901

Phone: (202) 475-5686



b. The Contracting Officer or the duly authorized representative will perform inspection and acceptance of materials and services to be provided.



c. For the purpose of this SECTION, the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative is the authorized representative of the Contracting Officer.



REQUEST FOR PAYMENT:



In addition to 52.212-4 (g):

	 (a)	A request for payment is proper if it includes the items required by the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment [(a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(ix)] and those items are accurate.  If a request for payment does not include all the items required by the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, or any information is inaccurate, then the request is not proper and shall be returned to the contractor with a statement of the reason(s) it is not proper.

          (b)	Each invoice shall be e-mailed to the designated billing office at .  

	The Invoice Number, Contract Number, and Task Order Number (If applicable), Contracting Officer and Contract Specialist shall be identified in the email Subject Line. 

 (c)	Each invoice shall also be e-mailed to the Contract Specialist and the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) at the addresses cited below:

	 Contract Specialist

     COTR

The contractor shall submit SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, and SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet), or another form such as a company invoice to request payments under this contract.  The forms or invoice must be completed as required by this clause.

The SF 1034 shall be completed in accordance with the following instructions:



The SF 1035 (Continuation Sheet) shall be completed in accordance with the instructions below.  Use the same basic instructions for the SF 1035 as used for the SF 1034.  Ensure that the contract and, if applicable, order number, are shown on each continuation sheet.  Use as many sheets as necessary to show the information required by the contract, contracting officer, or cognizant audit agency; however, if more than one sheet of SF 1035 is used, each sheet shall be in numerical sequence.

The following items are generally entered below the line with Number and Date of Order; Date of Delivery or Service; Articles or Services; Quantity; Unit Price; and Amount (but do not necessarily tie to these captions).

	(1)  Show, as applicable, the target or estimated costs, target or fixed-fee, and total contract value, as adjusted by any modifications to the contract or order.  The FAR permits the contracting officer to withhold a percentage of fixed fee until a reserve is set aside in an amount that is considered necessary to protect the Government's interest.

(2)	Show the following items and supporting data as applicable to the contract or order:

Time-and-Materials, Labor-Hour.

Labor.  List each contract line item number and corresponding labor category description and hourly rate, labor hours performed, and extended total labor dollars (hourly rate multiplied by labor hours performed)

		   2.  Materials and Subcontracts

(a)  List each direct material item, quantity purchased, item cost, and extended total cost (quantity purchased multiplied by item cost).  Cite any material handling costs allocated to direct materials.

List each authorized subcontract by subcontractor name.  List each item or service, quantity purchased, item or service cost, and extended total cost (quantity purchased multiplied by item or service cost).

Travel.  List the name and title of traveler, place of travel, and travel dates. If the travel claim is based on the actual costs expended, show the amount for the mode of travel (i.e., airline, private auto, taxi, etc.), lodging, meals, and other incidental expenses separately, on a daily basis.  These actual costs must be supported with receipts to substantiate the costs paid.  Cite any applicable indirect costs allocated to travel.

Total of 1. through 3.  Enter this amount on the SF 1034.

Cumulative value of all previous requests for payment paid to date.

Cost Reimbursement.

Direct Labor.  List each labor category, rate per labor hour, hours worked, and extended total labor dollars per labor category.

Premium Pay/Overtime.  List each labor category, rate per labor hour, hours worked, and the extended total labor dollars per labor category.  Note: Advance written authorization must be received from the contracting officer to work overtime or to pay premium rates; therefore, identify the contracting officer's written authorization to the contractor.

Fringe Benefits.  If fringe benefits are included in the overhead pool, no entry is required.  If the contract allows for a separate fringe benefit pool, cite the formula (rate and base) in effect during the time the costs were incurred.  If the contract allows for billing fringe benefits as a direct expense, show the actual fringe benefit costs.  

4. Materials, Supplies, Equipment.  Show those items normally treated as direct costs.  Expendable items need not be itemized and may be grouped into major classifications such as office supplies.  However, items valued at $5,000 or more must be itemized.  See (FAR) 48 CFR Part 45, Government Property, for reporting of property.

 5. Travel.  List the name and title of traveler, place of travel, and travel dates. If the travel claim is based on the actual costs expended, show the amount for the mode of travel (i.e., airline, private auto, taxi, etc.), lodging, meals, and other incidental expenses separately, on a daily basis.  These actual costs must be supported with receipts to substantiate the costs paid.  Travel costs for consultants must be shown separately and also supported.

6. Other Direct Costs.  Itemize those costs that cannot be placed in categories 1. through 5. above.  Categorize these costs to the extent possible.

7. Total Direct Costs.  Cite the sum of categories 1. through 6. above.	

		   8. Overhead.  Cite the rate, base, and extended amount.

		   9. G&A Expense.  Cite the rate, base, and extended amount

Total Costs.  Cite the sum of categories 7 through 9 above.

Fee.  Cite the rate, base, and extended amount.	

Total Cost and Fee Claimed.  Enter this amount on the SF 1034.	

Cumulative value of all previous requests for payment paid to date.



(h)	Completion Voucher.  The completion (final) voucher, also referred to as the final invoice, is the last voucher to be submitted for incurred, allocable, and allowable costs expended to perform the contract or order.  This voucher should include all contract reserves, allowable cost withholdings, balance of fixed fee, etc.  However, the amount of the completion voucher when added to the total amount previously paid cannot exceed the total amount of the contract.	

	 (i)	The following additional data must be submitted with the final request for payment, if applicable:

		(1)	DHS Form 700-3, Contractor's Release.

		(2)	DHS Form 700-2, Contractor's Assignment of Refunds, Rebates, Credits, and other 			amounts.

		(3)	DHS Form700-1, Cumulative Claim and Reconciliation Statement.

		(4)	DD Form 882, Report of Inventions and Subcontracts.







FAR Provisions and Clauses in Full Text: 



(1) 52.209-5 CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION, PROPOSED CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (DEC 2008) 



(a)(1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that— 

(i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals— 

(A) Are □ are not □ presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(B) Have □ have not □, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, state, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

(C) Are □ are not □presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; 

(D) Have □, have not □, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(2) Examples. 

(i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. § 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. § 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. § 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

(ii) The Offeror has □ has not □, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency. 

(2) “Principal,” for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a subsidiary, division, or business segment; and similar positions). 

This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. 

(b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 

(c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror’s responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. 

(d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. 

(e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. 

(End of provision)



(2) 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications – Commercial Items (OCT 2010) 



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. 

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. 

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Inverted domestic corporation” means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. 

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

(b) 

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] 

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. 

(7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

(8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] 

(i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not an emerging small business. 

(ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows: 

(A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or 

(B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). 

(Check one of the following):

(9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It  □is, □ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It □ has, □ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 



(ii) □Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

(10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It □ has, □ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It □ has, □ has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It □ has developed and has on file, □has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It□ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) , Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.” 

(2) Foreign End Products:



(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals— 

(1) □ Are, □  are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(2) □ Have, □  have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

(3) □  Are, □ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and 

(4) □ Have, □ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(ii) Examples. 

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

	

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at (b).] 

(1) Listed end products.

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) □  In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2) □  Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror □  does □ does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (, ). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of , reporting requirements of , and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR , the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

□  TIN: ________________________________. 

□ TIN has been applied for. 

□  TIN is not required because: 

□  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

□  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

□  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

(4) Type of organization. 

□ Sole proprietorship; 

□  Partnership; 

□  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

□  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

□  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

□  Foreign government; 

□  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

□ Other ________________________________. 

(5) Common parent. 

□  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

□  Name and TIN of common parent: 

Name ________________________________. 

TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at  (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR ). 

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one. 

(o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. 

(1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. 

(2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if— 

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., (g) or a comparable agency provision); and 

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. 

(End of provision)



(3) 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders – Commercial Items. (May 2011)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).

(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

 (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402).

 (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

 (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009).

 (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).

 (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).

 (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government’ Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items).

 (7) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Public Law 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Public Law 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Public Law 110-161).

 (8) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a).

 (9) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a).

 (10) [Reserved]

 (11) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).

 (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.

 (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.

 (12) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).

 (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.

 (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.

 (13) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).

 (14) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4).)

 (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

 (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

 (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9.

 (15) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).

 (16) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).

 (17) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).

 (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.

 (18) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

 (19) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

 (20) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).

 (21) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).

 (22) 52.219-29, Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011).

 (23) 52.219-30, Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011).

 (24) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).

 (25) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126).

 (26) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).

 (27) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

 (28) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

 (29) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

 (30) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

 (31) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496).

 (32) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)

 (33) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

 (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

 (34) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).

 (35) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).

 (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.

 (36) 52.223-18, Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513).

 (37) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).

 (38) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act –Free Trade Agreements – Israeli Trade Act (Jun 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-301, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).

 (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.

 (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.

 (39) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).

 (40) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).

 (41) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

 (42) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

 (43) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

 (44) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

 (45) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

 (46) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

 (47) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

 (48) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).

 (49) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).

 (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

 (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).

 (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).

(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation.

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.

(e) 

(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—

(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.

(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)

(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

 Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)

(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)

(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).

(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.

(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.



(End of Clause)



(4) 52.217-8 -- OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 60 days before the contract expires.



					(End of Clause)



(5) 52.217-9 -- OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days of expiration date of the base or option period; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years

(End of clause)













(6) 52.219-1 SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS-ALTERNATE I (APR 2011) 



(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611. 

(2) The small business size standard is 7 million. 

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Representations. 

(1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it   is,   is not a small business concern. 

(2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it   is,  is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it   is,   is not a women-owned small business concern. 

(4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that— 

(i) It   is,   is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It   is,   is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. 

(5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that— 

(i) It   is,   is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It   is,   is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. 

(6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it   is,   is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(7) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it   is,  is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(8) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It   is,  is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It  is,  is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(c) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program. 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) “Service-disabled veteran” means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. 

(d) Notice. 

(1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. 

(2) Under , any person who misrepresents a firm’s status as a business concern that is small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, service-disabled veteran-owned small, economically disadvantaged women-owned small, or women-owned small eligible under the WOSB Program in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8, 9, 15, 31, and 36 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall— 

(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; 

(ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and 

(iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. 

(End of provision) 

Alternate I (Apr 2011). As prescribed in (a)(2), add the following paragraph (b)(9) to the basic provision: 

(9) [Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.] The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls: 

_____ Black American. 

_____ Hispanic American. 

_____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). 

_____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). 

_____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). 

_____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. 



(End of provision)



(7) 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEPT 2006)



(a) Protests, as defined in section 31.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Richard.J.Murphy@uscg.mil (Contracting Officer) or Lerna.Shafakian@uscg.mil (Contract Specialist). 

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 



(End of provision)



II. HOMELAND SECURITY ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 30 CLAUSES)



HSAR Clauses Incorporated by Reference: 



NUMBER 	TITLE/DATE 

3052.204-71	Contractor employee access (Jun 2006)

(Including Alt I)  

3052.209-70	Prohibition on Contracts With Corporate Expatriates (Dec 2003)

3052.222-70 	Strikes or Picketing Affecting Timely Completion of the Contract Work (DEC 2003) 

3052.242-71	Dissemination of Contract Information (Dec 2003)

3052.242-72 	Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (DEC 2003) 



HSAR Clause Incorporated by Full-Text:



3052.204-70 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (JUN 2006)



(a)        The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology (IT) security for all systems connected to a DHS network or operated by the Contractor for DHS, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services for which the Contractor must have physical or electronic access to sensitive information contained in DHS unclassified systems that directly support the agency's mission.



(b)        The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract.



(1)        Within 30 days after contract award, the contractor shall submit for approval its IT Security Plan, which shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal. The plan, as approved by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.



(2)        The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Computer Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.); the Government Information Security Reform Act of 2000; and the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002; and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A-130.



(3)        The security plan shall specifically include instructions regarding handling and protecting sensitive information at the Contractor's site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor's computer systems), and the secure management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems.



(c)        Examples of tasks that require security provisions include--



(1)        Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DHS with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and



(2)        Access to DHS networks or computers at a level beyond that granted the general public (e.g., such as bypassing a firewall).



(d)        At the expiration of the contract, the contractor shall return all sensitive DHS information and IT resources provided to the contractor during the contract, and certify that all non-public DHS information has been purged from any contractor-owned system. Components shall conduct reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced. Within 6 months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to DHS for approval by the DHS 

(e)        Contracting Officer. Accreditation will proceed according to the criteria of the DHS Sensitive System Policy Publication, 4300A (Version 2.1, July 26, 2004) or any replacement publication, which the Contracting Officer will provide upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The contractor shall comply with the approved accreditation documentation.



(f )       Access to Unclassified Facilities, Information Technology Resources, and Sensitive Information clause:   The assurance of the security of unclassified facilities, Information Technology (IT) resources, and sensitive information during the acquisition process and contract performance are essential to the DHS mission. DHS Management Directive (MD) 11042.1 Safeguarding Sensitive But Unclassified (For Official Use Only) Information, describes how contractors must handle sensitive but unclassified information.  DHS MD 140-01 Information Technology Systems Security and the DHS Sensitive Systems Handbook prescribe policies and procedures on security for IT resources.  Contractors shall comply with these policies and procedures, any replacement publications, or any other current or future DHS policies and procedures covering contractors specifically for all Task Orders that require access to DHS facilities, IT resources or sensitive information.  Contractors shall not use or redistribute any DHS information processed, stored, or transmitted by the contractor except as specified in the task order.



III. COAST GUARD ACQUSITION PROCEDURES CLAUSE



CGAP Clause Incorporated by Full-Text:

 

3004.1301-90 COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CAC) FOR CONTRACTORS: CONTRACTOR VERIFICATION SYSTEM (CVS) 



(a) ―Contractor employee‖ means an employee of a firm, or an individual, under contract or subcontract to the Coast Guard to provide services and who requires physical and/or logical access to information systems and/or facilities. 

(b) Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12 mandates a Federal standard for secure and reliable forms of identification for Federal employees and contractor employees. The Common Access Card (CAC) is a personal identification card for the Department of Defense/Uniformed Services and complies with HSPD-12. The Coast Guard has instituted the CAC as its HSPD-12 compliant personal identification card for contractor and subcontractor employees who are required to access a Coast Guard, Department of Defense (DOD), or other federally-controlled computer information system and/or facility, or need public key infrastructure (PKI) authentication to perform their contractual duties. The Contractor Verification System (CVS) is the automated application process for obtaining a CAC. 

(c) Contractor and subcontractor employees working pursuant to this contract who are required to access a Coast Guard, DOD, or other federally-controlled computer information system and/or facility, or need PKI authentication to perform their contractual duties shall use CVS to obtain a CAC. 

(d) The Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) shall serve as the CVS Trusted Agent and is responsible for creating contractor accounts in the CVS; approving, returning, or rejecting CAC applications (as applicable); re-verifying assigned contractors every six months; revoking contractor and employee eligibility for a CAC; and confiscating a CAC when the contract expires or when a contractor or subcontractor employee stops working under the contract. COMDTINST M4200.19J 4-6 

(e) Current standards require a favorable fingerprint check and verification of an initiated or completed investigation for all incoming Coast Guard contractor personnel before CAC issuance. The COTR shall ensure that contractor personnel satisfy the security requirements for CAC issuance, and that completed fingerprint cards and electronic questionnaires for investigation processing are submitted to the U.S. Coast Guard Security Center (SECCEN). 

(f) The COTR or Contracting Officer shall provide such forms to, or request such information from, contractor employees that may be necessary for obtaining a CAC via the CVS. Completed forms and information shall be submitted as directed by the COTR or Contracting Officer. Contractors are responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the information submitted and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete information. 

(g) Contractor or subcontractor employees who are declined a CAC via the CVS are ineligible to perform work under this contract. When an employee with a CAC is no longer performing work under this contract, the employee must return the CAC to the COTR or Contracting Officer on the same day the employee stops working. 

(h) The contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when a subcontractor’s employee is required to access a Coast Guard, DOD, or other federally-controlled computer information system and/or facility, or need PKI authentication to perform contractual duties. 



IV. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST FOR CONTRACTS AWARDED BY THE

U.S. COAST GUARD OFFICE OF CONTRACT OPERATIONS



(a) The contractor warrants that to the best of its knowledge and belief, and except as otherwise disclosed, he or she does not have any organizational conflict of interest, which is defined as a situation in which the nature of work under a government contract and a contractor's organizational, financial, contractual or other interests are such that: 

	(1) Award of the contract may result in an unfair competitive advantage; or 

	(2) The contractor’s objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise 	impaired. 

(b) The contractor agrees that if after award he or she discovers an actual or apparent organizational conflict of interest with respect to this contract, he or she shall make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the Contracting officer which shall include a description of the action which the contractor has taken or intends to take to eliminate or neutralize the conflict. The government may, however, terminate the contract for convenience of the government if it would be in the best interest of the government. 

(c) In the event the contractor was aware of an organizational conflict of interest before the award of this contract and intentionally did not disclose the conflict to the contracting officer, the government may terminate the contract for default. 

(d) The provisions of this clause shall be included in all subcontracts and consulting agreement wherein the work to be performed is similar to the service provided to the Government by the prime contractor. The contractor shall include in such subcontracts and consulting agreements any necessary provisions to eliminate or neutralize organizational conflicts of interest. 



V. NOTICE FOR FILING AGENCY PROTESTS



United States Coast Guard Ombudsman Program:



It is the policy of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) to issue solicitations and make contract awards in a fair and timely manner. The Ombudsman Program for Agency Protests (OPAP) was established to investigate agency protest issues and resolve them without expensive and time-consuming litigation. OPAP is an independent reviewing authority that is empowered to grant a prevailing protester essentially the same relief as the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Interested parties are encouraged to seek resolution of their concerns within the USCG as an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) forum, rather than filing a protest with the GAO or some external forum. Interested parties may seek resolution of their concerns informally or opt to file a formal agency protest with the contracting officer or Ombudsman. 



Informal forum with the Ombudsman. Interested parties who believe a specific USCG procurement is unfair or otherwise defective should first direct their concerns to the cognizant contracting officer. If the contracting officer is unable to satisfy the concerns, the interested party is encouraged to contact the USCG Ombudsman for Agency Protests. Under this informal process, the agency is not required to suspend contract award performance. Use of an informal forum does not suspend any time requirement for filing a protest with the agency or other forum. In order to ensure a timely response, interested parties should provide the following information to the Ombudsman: solicitation/contract number, contracting office, contracting officer, and solicitation closing date (if applicable). 



Formal Agency Protest with the Ombudsman. Prior to submitting a formal agency protest, protesters must first use their best efforts to resolve their concerns with the contracting officer through open and frank discussions. If the protester’s concerns are unresolved, an independent review is available by the Ombudsman. The protester may file a formal agency protest to either the contracting officer or as an alternative to that, the Ombudsman under the OPAP program. Contract award or performance will be suspended during the protest period unless contract award or performance is justified, in writing, for urgent and compelling reasons or is determined in writing to be in the best interest of the Government. The agency’s goal is to resolve protests in less than 35 calendar days from the date of filing. Protests shall include the information set forth in FAR 33.103. If the protester fails to submit the required information, resolution of the protest may be delayed or the protest may be dismissed. This will not preclude re-filing of the protest to meet the requirement. To be timely, protests must be filed within the period specified in FAR 33.103(e). Formal protests filed under the OPAP program should be submitted to: 



Department of Homeland Security

United States Coast Guard (CG-9131)

Ombudsman Program for Agency Protests

1900 Half Street, SW, Room 11-0602

Washington, D. C. 20593-0001

FAX: 202.475.3904


The Ombudsman Hotline telephone number is 202.372.3695. 







Caption on the SF 1034

Data to be Inserted in the Block

1.

U.S. DEPARTMENT, BUREAU OR ESTABLISHMENT, AND LOCATION

Name and address of the contracting office which issued the contract.

2.

DATE VOUCHER PREPARED 

Date voucher submitted to the designated billing office cited in the contract.

3.

CONTRACT NO. AND DATE      

Contract No. and, when applicable, the Order No. and date as shown on the award document.

4.

REQUISITION NO. AND DATE 

Leave blank or fill-in in accordance with the instructions in the contract.

5.

VOUCHER NO. 

Start with "1" and number consecutively.  A separate series of consecutive numbers must be used beginning with "1" for each contract number or order number (when applicable).  Note: Insert the word "FINAL" if this is the last voucher.

6.

SCHEDULE NO.; 
PAID BY;
DATE INVOICE RECEIVED
DISCOUNT TERMS;
PAYEE'S ACCOUNT NO.;
SHIPPED FROM TO WEIGHT;
GOVERNMENT B/L

Leave all these blocks blank

7.

PAYEE'S NAME AND ADDRESS 

Name and address of contractor as it appears on the contract.  If the contract is assigned to a bank, also show "CONTRACT ASSIGNED" below the name and address of the contractor.

8.

NUMBER AND DATE OF ORDER 

Leave blank.  (See #3 above.)

9.

DATE OF DELIVERY OR SERVICE

The period for which the incurred costs are being claimed (e.g., month and year; beginning and ending date of services, etc.).

10.

ARTICLES OR SERVICES 

Insert the following:

"For detail, see the total amount of the claim transferred from the attached SF 1035, page X of X."

One space below this line, insert the following:

"COST REIMBURSABLE-PROVISIONAL PAYMENT."

11.

QUANTITY; UNIT PRICE (COST; PER)

Leave blank

12.

AMOUNT

Insert the total amount claimed from the last page of the SF 1035.

13.



Payee must NOT use the space below. Do NOT write or type below this line.



Number of Employees 

Average Annual Gross Revenues 

__ 50 or fewer 

__ $1 million or less 

__ 51–100 

__ $1,000,001–$2 million 

__ 101–250 

__ $2,000,001–$3.5 million 

__ 251–500 

__ $3,500,001–$5 million 

__ 501–750 

__ $5,000,001–$10 million 

__ 751–1,000 

__ $10,000,001–$17 million 

__ Over 1,000 

__ Over $17 million 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ Attachment III

Past Performance Evaluation Document



CONTRACT DATA SHEET



SECTION A: TO BE COMPLETED BY CONTRACTOR



CONTRACTOR NAME____________________________________________________

     (Complete one Contract Data Sheet per reference.)





SECTION B: TO BE COMPLETED BY GOVERNMENT





Contract Number:

Contract Number:

Contract Number:

Contract Number:

Contract Number:

Prime or Subcontractor:

Prime or Subcontractor:

Dollar Amount:

Dollar Amount:

Dollar Amount:

Dollar Amount:

Dollar Amount:

Date Completed:

Date Completed:

Contract Type:

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Fixed Price___   Cost Reimbursement ___   Other (Specify)  __________

Item/Service Description:

Item/Service Description:











Contract Quantity/Period of Performance:

Contract Quantity/Period of Performance:

Contract Quantity/Period of Performance:









Customer Activity:

Customer Activity:











Customer POC (Person who can verify data):

Customer POC (Person who can verify data):

Customer POC (Person who can verify data):

Customer POC (Person who can verify data):







Address:



Address:



Address:



Address:



Address:



Phone: 

FAX:

E-Mail:








PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE INFORMATION





YES

YES

NO

1

Were all supplies/services delivered within the original contract schedule?







2

Did all delivered supplies/services comply with the contract specifications/ statement of work?







3

Did any of the delivered supplies/services require replacement, modification or rework in order to be acceptable?







4

Were any modifications issued relaxing the contract specifications/delivery requirements?







5

Was any part of this contract terminated for default or cause?







6

Did you receive any quality awards in the past three years?







7

If applicable, describe any corrective action(s) initiated to solve any problems/deficiencies on this contract.  Discuss the success of the corrective action(s) taken.







If applicable, describe any corrective action(s) initiated to solve any problems/deficiencies on this contract.  Discuss the success of the corrective action(s) taken.







If applicable, describe any corrective action(s) initiated to solve any problems/deficiencies on this contract.  Discuss the success of the corrective action(s) taken.







If applicable, describe any corrective action(s) initiated to solve any problems/deficiencies on this contract.  Discuss the success of the corrective action(s) taken.







8

Overall Past Performance Rating  (Check only one Box): 



Overall Past Performance Rating  (Check only one Box): 



Overall Past Performance Rating  (Check only one Box): 



Overall Past Performance Rating  (Check only one Box): 



8

No rating. The contractor has no relevant past performance (Color Code:  White).

No rating. The contractor has no relevant past performance (Color Code:  White).





8

. One or more examples where past performance significantly exceeded requirements (Color Code:  Blue).  

. One or more examples where past performance significantly exceeded requirements (Color Code:  Blue).  





8

Satisfactory. Past performance met requirements (Color Code: Green).

Satisfactory. Past performance met requirements (Color Code: Green).





8

Marginal.  One or more examples where past performance failed to meet requirements due to fault of contractor.  (Color Code: Yellow)

Marginal.  One or more examples where past performance failed to meet requirements due to fault of contractor.  (Color Code: Yellow)





8

Unsatisfactory.  One or more examples where past performance significantly failed to meet requirements due to fault of contractor (Color Code: Red).

Unsatisfactory.  One or more examples where past performance significantly failed to meet requirements due to fault of contractor (Color Code: Red).



SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

1 HSCG23-11-R-PTT750
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

4
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

Lerna Shafakian
CODE

2024753780 231
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED OR

1400 ET
X SET ASIDE:

9. ISSUED BY

USCG Headquarters (CG-9121) 2100 2ND ST. SW, Suite 1100 WASHINGTON DC 205930001

100.00 % FOR:
EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS SOLE SOURCE

X SMALL BUSINESS
NAICS:

511210

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.0
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

8(A)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X RFP

231

USCG Headquarters (CG-9121) 2100 2ND ST. SW, Suite 1100 WASHINGTON DC 205930001

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

1. This is a Commercial, Firm-fixed price contract, Base Year plus 4 Option Years, to purchase a single system enrollment management technology solution and associated technical support for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA) Admissions Division. This is a small business set-aside solicitation. 2. The Peformance Work Statement (Attachment I), Clauses and Provisions(Attachment II) and the Past Performance Evaluation Document (Attachment
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

ADDEND

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

Richard J. Murphy
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

4
24. AMOUNT

III) are appended to this form. BASE YEAR The Contractor shall provide all materials and labor necessary to provide the following as listed below: 00001 Online Application for Admissions in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.2. 00002 Maintenance and Support Services in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.7. 00003 Annual Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Fee

00004

Implementation, Installation and Training of a single system enrollment management technology solution in accordance with the attached PWS.

00005

USCG Academy Volunteer Portal and Implementation in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.6.

00006

TRAVEL- In accordance with FAR Part 31.205-46, travel shall be reimbursed at cost in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations. This is a not to exceed (NTE) Line Item. NTE amount To Be Determined by Government at time of award. Continued ...

1 LO

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSCG23-11-R-PTT750

3

4

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

(A) OPTION YEAR ONE

(B)

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

The Contractor shall provide all materials and labor necessary to provide the following as listed below: 10001 Online Application for Admissions in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.2. (Option Line Item) Maintenance and Support Services in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.7. (Option Line Item) Annual Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Fee (Option Line Item) OPTION YEAR TWO The Contractor shall provide all materials and labor necessary to provide the following as listed below: 20001 Online Application for Admissions in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.2. (Option Line Item) Maintenance and Support Services in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.7. (Option Line Item) Annual Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Fee (Option Line Item) OPTION YEAR THREE The Contractor shall provide all materials and labor necessary to provide the following as listed below: 30001 Online Application for Admissions in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.2. (Option Line Item) Maintenance and Support Services in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.7. Continued ...

10002

10003

20002

20003

30002

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

HSCG23-11-R-PTT750

4

4

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

(A) (Option Line Item) 30003

(B)

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

Annual Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Fee (Option Line Item) OPTION YEAR FOUR The Contractor shall provide all materials and labor necessary to provide the following as listed below:

40001

Online Application for Admissions in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.2. (Option Line Item) Maintenance and Support Services in accordance with the attached PWS, Section 5.7. (Option Line Item) Annual Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Fee (Option Line Item)

40002

40003

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

