REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

United States Department of State

CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, PROJECT MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL, AND CUSTOMER SUPPORT SERVICES





Section B: Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs

B.1	BACKGROUND

The Bureau of International Information Programs (IIP) manages public websites and web applications (400+) for international audiences for the  Department of State (DoS).  These websites and online information applications/systems disseminate information about U.S. foreign policy, the State Department, the United States, and provides critical travel information and services for American Citizens and international visitors.  IIP designs, develops, and implements a variety of information initiatives and strategic communications programs, including daily press releases on foreign policy, Internet and print publications in multiple languages, and electronically transmitted speaker programs. The Bureau also provides other information resource services. 

The Bureau of International Information Programs (IIP) at the U.S. Department of State (DoS) supports DoS and Embassy websites and online information systems through an Application Services model and provides hosting, professional services, graphic services, information design, data architecture, taxonomy integration, technical support, search functionality, and web log reporting in an integrated technology program. This system provides integrated content management system (CMS), web design, security, continuity of operations, and services from Washington, DC, for IIP, including the Secretary of State and the main domestic and international websites, including more than 270 posts overseas.

The CMS provides simple, integrated end-to-end solutions for rich content creation, production, reuse, repurposing, and multi-channel publishing, via internet-connected media platforms such as mobile devices, kiosks, and third party services (social networking sites, widgets, YouTube, etc.) enabling content creators as well as web managers to develop and manage online content easily, and affords them the opportunity to develop and deploy new products with relative ease while eliminating the need to concern themselves with all other technical and deployment-related issues normally associated with deploying any web site or digitally-based product.

Technology components of the current solution include:  various Content Management Systems hosted externally (WebGUI, WordPress, SalesForce Enterprise,  and Gallery (http://gallery.menalto.com/) content delivery through Akamai, search through the Google Search appliance, web log analysis and reporting through Webtrends, blogging through WordPress, and an integrated Microsoft Word-based content creation and publishing component developed by IIP – all of which are best-of-breed in their respective categories today.  Content is ultimately converted to, published from, and stored as well-formed XML.  Metadata is stored as fielded data in the XML repository and used to support creation, production, publishing, syndication, archiving, and activity tracking workflows.

B.2	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance for the contract shall be from contract award through May 31, 2012 with four (4) one year option periods. 

Base Period: 	Contract Award – May 31, 2012

Options Periods

Option Year/Period One:		June 1, 2012 – May 31, 2013
Option Year/Period Two:		June 1, 2013 – May 31, 2014
Option Year/Period Three:		June1, 2014 – May 31, 2015
Option Year/Period Four:      	June 1, 2015 – May 31, 2016

NOTE:  The actual award dates will be defined at time award.  Option periods must be “exercised” (awarded) by the Department prior to the completion of the latest (current) period of performance.  Initial award and all option period awards are dependent upon availability of funds.  

B.3	CONTRACT TYPE

This contract is structured as a performance-based firm fixed-price contract based on guidance outlined in FAR sections 37.6 and 16.4.  As such, the U.S. Department of State will review Contractor’s performance of the Tasks listed in the Scope of Work section of this document.  The review will be initiated by the U.S. Department of State and at its sole discretion, and may take place quarterly or in line with each billing period as necessary. DoS may award an incentive, not to exceed 3% of the cost for the period of work in question. Should Contractor’s performance of any of these “items” be questioned by the U.S. Department of State, Contractor will immediately address the issue collectively to correct the situation.  While Contractor will make every effort possible to address the item in question, Contractor may be liable for a reduction of up to 3% maximum of the cost for the period of the work in question.  

B.4	COST

The Contractor shall provide all management, supervision, labor and materials necessary to provide support. The tasking for the requirements identified in Section C of this Request for Proposals (RFP), with the exception of Other Direct Costs, shall be on a firm fixed price basis.  




B.5	OTHER DIRECT COSTS
Contract funding may be used to acquire services and/or products, not specifically listed under Scope of Work, but necessary for the successful completion of those tasks and this contract.  The Contractor must obtain written consent from the GTM prior to obtaining any ODC service or product and billing for any ODC item.  ODCs may include, but are not limited to, training, travel, and, software.

B.6	CLIN STRUCTURE

B.6.1 	Current Staffing Levels (CFTEs)

Table B-1 shows the current CFTEs. This information is provided as information only; staffing levels for each CLIN are to be proposed by offeror for base year and option years as part of the proposal.

Table B-1 Current Staffing Levels CFTEs 



B.6.2 	Prices

The offeror shall provide its firm fixed prices for each of the potential five years for each of the ten CLINs provided with this solicitation.  The CLIN structure is provided in Table B-2.

Table B-2 CLIN Structure

















B.7	TRAVEL COSTS

Travel under this contract is generally defined as Contractor air and ground transportation, Contractor lodging, and Contractor meals and incidentals.  

Except as otherwise provided herein, the Contractor shall be reimbursed its allowable, allocable, and reasonable actual incurred travel costs in accordance with FAR 31.205-46, including Item VI in the Final Rule of FAC 2005-38, dated December 10, 2009.  

Travel must be directly related to and be required for performance of the contract.  The Contractor should have a policy that requires its employees to use sound business judgment in both determining the need for travel, as well as in expending Contractor financial resources when travel is necessary. The following guidelines are provided to assist the Contractor in its compliance with contractual requirements to limit expense reimbursement to those costs that do not exceed DoS travel reimbursement guidelines. 
Travelers will not be reimbursed for excess costs caused by:

An indirect route as a matter of personal preference

Premature departure for personal reasons from a temporary location; or extending a stay for personal reasons.

In no event shall costs associated with employees commuting be reimbursable as a direct cost under this contract. 

After task order award, travel must be authorized in advance by the Contracting Officer’s Representative.  However, if travel costs are projected to exceed the estimated travel cost negotiated at base contract and task order award, the Contractor shall obtain advance written authorization from the Contracting Officer.

If work under this contract will be performed at the Government site at the Department of State main building, 21st and Virginia Avenue, NW, Washington, DC  20520, or other State Annexes in the metropolitan Washington, DC area, daily commuting time and expenses between the Department of State site and some other location, such as a home office, shall not be allowable costs under this contract.

B .7.1 Use of Privately Owned vehicle

Costs when using a privately owned vehicle for official travel are allowable provided that such costs do not exceed costs that would have resulted from use of other reasonable transportation methods (e.g., taxi, airplane, train).  Reasonable associated costs, such as tolls and parking fees, are also generally allowable.  The Contractor shall submit, as an attachment to its invoice, evidence to support the reasonableness of privately owned vehicle costs.

When travelling in a privately owned vehicle (POV) for official travel, the Contractor shall be reimbursed mileage costs at a rate that does not exceed the POV mileage rate established by the Internal Revenue Service.

B.7.2 Air Travel

Air travel should be in coach class only, unless the contractor’s employee bears the cost of the difference between coach and first class. Travel should be planned as far in advance as possible to take advantage of discounted fares; especially if reasonable certainty exists that the event will take place. If more than one air carrier offers service, travel should be on the carrier that offers the lowest price. If a restricted fare is booked and the Contractor’s employee requires a change, a reasonable exchange fee may be claimed. Contractor’s employees are required to fly on U.S. flag carrier service under the Fly America Act, 49 USC Section 40118, which requires employees, consultants, contractors and any other persons traveling for the federal government outside the United States via commercial air to travel by U.S. flag air carriers, unless an exception to the Act applies. For additional information, refer to the Federal Travel Regulations and/or Comptroller General Decision B-138942, March 31, 1981.

B.7.3 Rental Cars

Costs for car rentals for official travel are allowable provided that: such rentals are consistent with good business practice;  such costs do not exceed costs that would have resulted from use of other reasonable transportation methods (e.g., taxi, airplane, train); and such costs do not exceed the actual cost of renting a compact automobile (maximum of one automobile for two Contractor personnel), unless extenuating circumstances (e.g., excess baggage) require other arrangements and subsequent Contracting Officer approval is obtained.  Reasonable associated costs, such as tolls and parking fees, are also generally allowable. The use of rental cars, even if authorized, must be justified in writing by the traveler and attached to the voucher. Claims for rental car gasoline must be supported by original receipts.

B.7.4Per Diem

Employees on overnight travel status shall be reimbursed on a per diem basis. Specific per diem rates for different localities may be found at the General Services Administration web site, the specific citation for which is as follows: ? 

Per diem is not intended to fully cover these expenses.

B.7.5 International Travel

International travel is defined as outside of the United States.  The United States is defined as the fifty states, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, possessions of the United States, and the District of Columbia.

B.7.6 Passports and Visas

Reimbursement may be permitted for actual visa fees for official travel; however, the expense for personal passports is not eligible as a direct cost under this contract. Visas are generally required in relation to a specific trip and therefore the cost is generally allowable as a direct cost for travel required under this contract.

Diplomatic passports may, in appropriate circumstances, be issued to government contractors (see 7 FAM 1391.5 or 7 FAM 1391.6).

A diplomatic passport is normally valid for five years or until the termination of the bearer’s diplomatic status, whichever comes first. There is no fee for a diplomatic passport.

B.7.6 Receipts

Except for per diem expenses, valid original receipts are required for all expenditures regardless of cost. If a receipt is not normally provided for the expense (metro, bus token, etc.), the certification signed by the traveler on the voucher will justify the expense. Receipts submitted with the voucher should be originals indicating the name of the payee, date paid, amount, and the service rendered. This includes the original Passenger Receipt Coupon of the airline ticket. If an electronic ticket is used, the boarding passes for each flight must be submitted with the travel voucher.

B.7.7 Travel Voucher Completion

The contractor’s travel voucher must be submitted for reimbursement within 30 days after completion of travel. In addition, dates and times of each departure from residence or office, arrival at and the name of the place of temporary assignment, and arrival at the office or residence must be shown on the travel voucher. A certification signed by the traveler must be included on the travel voucher that states that the trip indicated was actually taken and that all expenses are accurate and correct.

B.8	Overtime

The Contractor shall provide Customer Support Services 24x7 including weekends and holidays. Technical Support shall be available on call 24x7x365 including weekends and holidays.  Other contractor personnel will be expected to perform based on an 8-hour workday and 40-hour workweek with the majority of work performed Monday through Friday, except federal holidays.  









Section C: Descriptions/Specifications/Work Statement



C.1	RESERVED



C.2	GENERAL PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS OVERVIEW

Project management, Services and Support of the entire CMS project will be provided covering all areas of the CMS Program.  Technical services will encompass all operational areas as well as any new evaluation and integration of technologies that will be added to the CMS suite of services. Support and services to manage more than 400+ public websites, 600 production sites, 1000 internal users, and a number of software applications – The current solution includes WebGUI, SalesForce Enterprise, RT ticketing, Mediawiki, Wordpress, Gallery database, Google Search appliances, WebTrends, and Microsoft Word template integration.  

C. 3 	Objectives

The United States Department of State (DoS), International Information Programs (IIP), requires contractor services for program management, operational, development, metrics and reporting, search customer service, and training support.  Contractor support is required by individuals who possess knowledge and experience in the specific areas as described in this SOW.

 C 3.1 	Objective 1 - Program/Project Management

Provide an advanced set of Project Management, Program Management, and Program Management Office services for Information Technology (IT) and other specialized support under a performance-based arrangement, which will maximize the ability of the Department to perform its mission at a lower total cost and meet budget, schedule, and quality goals; and provide project management to ensure the continued operation and development of the CMS project and its core infrastructure.  Project management of the entire CMS project will be provided covering all areas of the CMS. The offeror shall provide a CMS Operations Program Management Plan describing the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance and schedule requirements throughout execution of this contract. 

C.3.1.1 Tasks

Apply project, program, and program management office roadmaps that clearly define objectives; divide and subdivide the project scope into work packages (work breakdown structure); define specific activities that need to be performed for each work package in order to accomplish the project objective; graphically portray network diagram activities; make a time estimate for how long it will take to complete each activity; make a cost estimate for each activity; and calculate a project schedule and budget to determine whether the project can be completed within the required time, with the allotted funds, and with the available resources;

Align projects, programs, and program management office services with the business goals and strategies of the organization throughout the program life cycle;

Tailor program life-cycle standards and conducting critical milestone evaluations and stage-gate reviews;

Apply discipline to communications, configuration management, change management, quality assurance Provide QA guidelines for the team;

Provide just-in-time expertise; conducting periodic assessments; and developing plans (e.g., test, interoperability, e-Government migration and implementation), requirements definitions, joint concepts, analysis of alternatives; performance measurements and technical management; 

Provide Project and Program Management of entire CMS project, teams, and contractor personnel for all web sites and project under the umbrella of CMS program;

Provide seamless phase-in of contractor personnel without interruption in CMS support across the serviced CMS customer based (bureaus, missions, offices and interagency partners);

Develop plans (e.g., test, interoperability, e-Government migration and implementation), requirements definitions, joint concepts, and analysis of alternatives;

Provide consistent and accurate reporting of performance to the Government;

Identify, assess, and mitigate program/project risks;

Work cooperatively with third party services;

Provide  management of 24x7 operations and customer support team;

Provide Integration and Professional Services in Support of the CMS;

Single point of responsibility for planning, sizing, estimating, and delivery of the CMS project in delivery of the CMS Program at the Department of State;

Provide Third-party Vendor Management;

Serve as Lead Architect., ensuring the system allows the ability to plug in and out new services and technologies;

and other processes;

Provide quality assurance (QA) and other conformance support services;

Provide Earned Value management and reporting of the CMS project;

Maximize availability of the CMS system;

Manage quality of service components for CMS customers;

Provide Alternatives analysis and manage the evaluation and integration of new software and services components;

Manage all security-related aspects of the project;

Responsible for providing documentation for full life cycle OMB A11-300 reporting;

Conduct meetings and provide training for department contractors and employees as needed.

C 3.1.2 	Administrative Support

Provide program Support for administrative, acquisition and financial support work associated with the office and the Content Management System (CMS) program. 


The Contractor shall perform the following tasks as listed:

Assist in the development of administrative plan, policies and guidance.

Provides administrative and technical support to the Director and subordinate staff for a wide range of activities relevant to program operations.  Performs administrative duties for the Program Office.

Maintain budget and fiscal controls for the staff to which assigned.  Prepares obligating documents and establishes control or obligation liquidations of funds in carrying out the program within financial limits and in keeping with accepted legal and administrative practices, including requirements for the use of foreign currency.

Manage database of office budget and contracts to ensure that deadlines and financial obligations are met and to inform Director of any corrective actions.   

Prepare and process invoices, requisitions, purchase orders, credit card payments, vouchers, and other financial documents.  Keeps official records of obligations and expenditures to provide timely information to the Director.

Serve as administrative coordinator to the Director of program.  Responsible for daily review and maintenance of Director’s schedules and ensures that any conflicts are rescheduled. Informs Director of all upcoming meetings and reporting requirements. 

Responsible for scheduling all staff meetings, staff reviews and notification to all staff.  Maintenance of Office mailbox and calendar.

Respond to inquiries from posts on matters within the competence of employee.  Draft and assist in the distribution of cables and other responses to posts and the public.

Provide written/oral guidance on travel regulations to all level of personnel. Ensure that all travel under the auspices of the Executive Office complies with existing laws and regulations.  Review the travel agency, and confirms the per diem rate using current travel regulations.  Enter data into the Central Financial Management System (CFMS) to prepare travel orders for the traveler.

Develop and maintain accurate statistical records and reports.  Analyze statistics and reports for trends and changes and revise programs and report to reflect them.

Maintain general office files, records, time and attendance, distributes mail and other materials.  Maintain proficiency in word processing, e-mail, and specialized applications such as Ariba, e-forms, Travel Manager, and Electronic Time and Attendance.

Receive visitors and callers to the office, independently fielding questions regarding electronic media services, or referring inquiry to appropriate staff members.

Provision of reporting and deliverables as defined in the Reports, Plans, and Meetings section of this document.

Responsibilities are understood as not being limited to these duties but will also includes other projects as assigned by the Program Director.




C 3.1.3 Deliverables

These shall include but are not limited to the following:

In progress Review - Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks.

Systems Development Lifecycle and OMB A11-300 Documentation as required.

CMS Operations Program Management Plan (PMP) 
The Department of State (DoS) CMS Operations Program Management Plan (PMP) is the organizing structure for all activities conducted from the contractor DoS Program Management Office (PMO).   While standards-based best practices are a foundation for this Plan, it is a practical outcome-oriented plan directly linked to the DoS’s Objectives for services outlined in the DoS SOO. The contractor PMP will also exceed the stringent performance objectives prescribed in the contract. As part of this Plan, the contractor DoS Program Manager and PMO will be dedicated to maintain unwavering focus on fulfilling DoS’s CMS requirements. 

Program/project quality assurance documentation.

Project Management Plan(s) for development efforts.

Work breakdown Structure(s)

Invoices, requisitions, purchase orders, credit card payments, vouchers, and other financial documents. 

Official records of obligations and expenditures to provide timely information to the Office Director.



C 3.1.4 Performance Requirements

C 3.1.5 Personnel

Requirements of the Project Manager:

Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification through the Project Management Institute.

Secret Clearance.

Must have at least 15 years project management experience.

Must have excellent presentation and communications skills.

Must be able to deliver presentations to executive level personnel.

Must have experience running large scale projects and teams.

Must have both federal and commercial experience.

Must have experience in all Security-related aspects reporting and requirements related to any aspect of the project to include personnel issues.

Must have experience and ability to perform all aspects of OMB A-11, 300 reporting for the CMS project.

Must have a successful track record in taking a project from inception to major project status through the A-11, 300 processes.

Must have experience in performing monthly and quarterly OMB reporting.

Business

Must be able to define and model business cases and then to develop and execute a plan to satisfy those business cases.

Must be able to define and produce robust ROI modeling in Excel.

Must have business acumen and be able to define business requirements and to architect solutions to meet those requirements.

Must be able to clearly define the organizational structure, processes, and procedures necessary from an operational point of view.

Must be able to execute those processes and run the organization in order to successfully deliver services to the CMS customer.

Must be able to define and put controls in place to monitor the effectiveness of the team from an operational and services point of view.

Must be able to define and execute marketing and advertising plans in order to promote the CMS project.

Technical

Must have prior software development and software engineering experience.

Must have led technical development teams.

Must have experience in developing integrated architectures for software, database, and networking systems.

Must have experience in developing integrated systems for online publishing and delivery of information via a distribution model.

Must be able to plan and configure network topologies, firewalls, load balancers and backup systems.

Must have intimate knowledge in the configuration a, customization, deployment and operation of WebGUI content management systems.

Must have intimate knowledge in the integration and capability of Salesforce Enterprise solution.

Must know how to integrate and deploy multiple websites through the Akamai content platform.

Must be proficient in the following development languages: Perl, C, Java, UNIX shell scripting, Visual Basic, VBA.

Ability to administer UNIX and Windows NT machines.

Must be able to perform technical duties at the programming level.

Must be able to define and gather requirements.

Must be able to execute and manage the full software life cycle.

C 3.1.6 Assumptions and Dependencies:

Project Manager reports to the CMS Program Manager (GFTE).

Project Manager is solely responsible for delivery of the services.

Project Manager is accountable for success of project as a whole.

Project Manager has the skills and experience necessary to assure successful delivery of project.



C 3.2 	Objective 2 - Operational Support & Development

Provide integrated information system development, maintenance and online support services, which includes, but is not limited to, a wide-spectrum of technical development, support, management and security of all systems that comprise the CMS project/program, including the integration and 24x7x365 maintenance of CMS and IT systems at the Qwest hosting facility in Sterling, Virginia. 

Provide processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web development, usability and section 508 compliance, and performance testing of services and CMS applications in order to a consistent approach to an enterprise web publishing program.  This support includes all sites under the umbrella of the CMS and includes the integration of blogs, and social medial 3rd party services and tools. 

C 3.2.1 Tasks

Implement and monitor all security related requirements.

Trouble-shoot and debug of all technical components of the CMS system.

Maximize availability of the CMS system and services worldwide.

Develop scripting and processes to integrate different systems 

Provide disaster recovery configuration and services.

Provide and maintain a secure development environment for the evaluation, development and testing of existing and new CMS components, enhancements and applications.

Provide 24x7x365, on-call support for all of the above services.

Provide support of the Microsoft Word Template custom code that allows publishing to the CMS from within Word.

Maintain and integrate a monitoring and notification system of all CMS components for 24x7 x365 support.

Responsible for day-to-day operation of all Content Management Software which includes, but is not limited to:

User administration.

Creation of new websites within CMS.

Administration of all sites implemented within CMS.

Ensuring Section 508 Compliance of websites.

Ensuring proper operation of all sites implemented within the CMS.

Implementation and integration of new design, functionality, requirements, etc.

Customization of the CMS software.

Coding as required in Perl, PHP, or shell scripting in the Unix environment.

Operation and emergency and scheduled Maintenance of the CMS software.

Coordinate with CMS technical support to test and apply released patches.

Administration of Oracle and MySQL backend databases that integrate with the CMS.

Ensure that the usability of the CMS is maintained for its customers.

Evaluate and implement any new CMS-related software packages.

Password and user maintenance for CMS users.

External hosting and operation of a Ticket tracking system used to manage the customer support process.  This service will also be used in other aspects in support of the CMS project.

Implement and monitor of all CMS security-related issues.

Research and implement new technologies to create effective and engaging user experiences.

Identify and develop new production processes for creating and publishing Section 508 compliant content for International Websites. 

C 3.2.2 Deliverables

Design, scripts and integrated templates for various online platforms; including but not limited to websites, blogs, mobile, tablets and social media.

Developed sites for various online platforms; including but not limited to websites, blogs, mobile, tablets and social media.

SDLC Documentation, as required.

All CMS code, fully documented.

Annual snapshot of all CMS properties (websites) to be captured and provided to Government on DVD by January 10 of each year in compliance with NARA guidelines for records management.

Third-party Vendor Management for the following Contracted Services:

Webtrends 

Google Analytics

Akamai

Salesforce Enterprise

CMS Software vendors:  PlainBlack, 

Hosting: Quest, Brightcove, Co-location of GOOGLE search boxes

Search Software: Google



24x7 support for the CMS secondary core infrastructure (listed below) located at Quest Hosting Facilities, and any other hosting facilities as required by the CMS project (details below).  




List of Current Technology Platform:






C 3.2.3 Performance Requirements



C 3.2.4 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein.

Qualifications

The team must have experience for each of the following services and software. These include, but are not limited to all the services associated with:

Akamai

All hosting related services and activities

Web log processing and analysis

Google Search Engine Integration and Support

Google Analytics

WebGUI Content Management Software

WordPress

MediaWiki

WebGUI and all custom coded components

Salesforce Enterprise

Oracle and MySQL Database administration

Unix and Windows System Administration

ALL Networking, firewall, load balancing, and connectivity related activities that include hardware.

RT Ticketing, Gallery multimedia tool (MMT) and open source software to management CMS systems.

Middleware/Framewords (ASP.NET, Java, PHP, Rails, JSON, Apex, etc.)

Web Server software(s) (Apache, IIS, etc.)

Knowledge in use and operation of how a CMS functions.

C 3.2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies:

Technical team reports directly to the CMS project manager.

Contractor is responsible for providing pagers, cell phones, etc.

Notification system must be hosted external to system being monitored.

Open Source software will be used wherever possible to reduce costs.

All code becomes the property of DoS.

Support team has the skills and experience necessary to support the CMS system as described.

These services apply to any content management software system selected for the CMS project.

Multiple CMS software packages will be selected, configured, integrated and maintained as necessary.

Request turn-around time will be based on current workload, complexity of request, and time required to process request.	

C 3.2.5.1 Control Over Content

The IIP Bureau management shall have complete control over its content on the contractor’s hosted website and distributed network. The contractor shall coordinate the following requirements with the Government, as follows:

The IIP Bureau management shall have the ability to immediately update or purge information from the website and distribution network through the contractor.

The IIP Bureau management, through the contractor, shall have the ability to “push” critical information out across the contractor’s network during periods where immediate availability of new content is critical.

The IIP Bureau management, through the contractor, shall have the ability to customize refresh rates for individual pages and/or product based on its determined assumptions on the “shelf-life” of the content presented.

C 3.3 	Objective 3 - Customer Service and Support

Provide processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices to achieve the organization’s strategic goals and enable the organization to apply lessons learned throughout the program life-cycle. 

C 3.3.1 Tasks

The contractor shall perform the following:

Must provide customer support services for more than 1,000 individuals from various cultures who are responsible for updating over 450 CMS websites worldwide. (For many, English is a second language) on a 24 hour, 7 days a week, 365 days a year schedule. This includes all holidays.  

Providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support services and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices. 

Providing customer support via phone, email, or onsite visits as dictated by the CMS program manager.

Engaging with new customers and aiding in the implementation of their new or updated site(s) into the CMS.

Provide integration support to all CMS, which includes the build out or importing of all content from old or new sites.

Provide versioning support of all CMS sites.

Creating new websites within the CMS. This includes creating 1800 web pages per week.

Aiding the Overseas and Domestic project managers as necessary.

Administration of sites within CMS.

Integrating support with all 24/7 customer support staff, including government employees and other vendors assigned to this program.

Managing and delivering written and oral communication to customers as needed.

Ensuring proper operation of all sites implemented within the CMS.

C 3.3.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

Prepare and deliver to the Government weekly and monthly status reports monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks. This should include response times, resolution rates and customer satisfaction rates pertaining to help tickets.

Documentation to include but not limited to User Guides, Process Documents, Surveys, Communication plans and templates.



C 3.3.3 Performance Requirements




C 3.3.4 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein.

Qualifications

The team must have knowledge and experience for each of the following services and software. These include, but are not limited to:

WebGUI Content Management Software

Salesforce Enterprise

WordPress

Gallery multimedia management tool

Federal web publishing standards, regulations, and procedures (including accessibility).



C 3.3.5 Assumptions and Dependencies

Coverage for each support staff will assume an 8-hour work day.

Support will be consist of both onsite and offsite personnel.

Contractor will provide Offsite support personnel with the tools necessary to communicate with and support CMS users.

Contractor must supply facilities for offsite personnel and is not the responsibility of IIP.

CMS Help tickets take priority over any other assignment, and must follow the standard operating procedures that have been established for the CMS program. 

Support personnel will be proficient in use and operation of the CMS software within the CMS services framework.

Support personnel report to USG Managers.

Support personnel will maintain knowledge of Federal web publishing standards, regulations, and procedures (including accessibility) and implements changes as required to enhance page design and content.

Support personnel will maintain knowledge of CMS web applications and be able to troubleshoot applications.

C 3.4 Objective 4 - Web Metrics and Reporting System

Provide Enterprise-class, multi-channel analytics implementation and management for 400+ Web and social media properties with over 82 million page views per month across multiple domains and platforms. WebTrends is the current Web metrics tool in use for the CMS Program. No change will be contemplated by Government until after successful contract transition. Should Government agree to use a different tool(s) the Offeror shall be responsible for the acquisition and annual maintenance fees for the tool(s) as well as providing full support as described herein.

Provide processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web analytics services in order to provide web log reporting capabilities to the webmasters and principals for all State Department sites as well as Embassy web sites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 

C 3.4.1 Tasks 

The contractor shall perform the following:

Create profiles, data sources, templates, and dashboards.

Installation and configuration of DoS Webtrends licenses. Secure password-protected access to the reporting servers via any Internet connection, which includes use through OpenNet.

Consolidation and analysis of web logs from websites as specified by customer.

Download and process all web log files from the Akamai Service on a daily basis.

Integration and analysis of other web server log files from other services such as the search engine servers for processing.

24x7x365 support and monitoring of servers integrated into Quest hosting facilities.

Set up user rights, permissions, and roles 

Conduct scheduled tag audits and data integrity review.

Implement paid search tracking.

Set up a scenario analysis to measure website conversion rates.

Upgrade of current Webtrends software to keep current with latest measurement tools.

Configuration of server environment to maximize both processing and reporting throughput.

Full administration, configuration and maintenance of Webtrends servers and Webtrends software.

Ability to fail-over reporting server to secondary server.

Ability to create unlimited Webtrends profiles and data sets as required.

Respond to customer requests for profiles and reports in a timely manner.

Integration of a ticketing system to place and track customer requests.

Analyze web site effectiveness via the configuration of various reports such as content groups, path analysis, and parameter analysis.

Data Backup Services.

Archiving of all raw web logs to DVD.

C 3.4.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

Prepare and deliver to the Government weekly and monthly status reports monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks. 

Templates, dashboards, reports as requested from the Government.

Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly report for CMS sites.

Prepare and deliver reports to CMS customers and stakeholders upon request.

DVD archives of weblogs.




C 3.4.3 Performance Requirements



C 3.4.4 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein. 

Qualifications

The team must have knowledge and experience for each of the following services and software. These include, but are not limited to:

Experience implementing and managing enterprise-class, multi-channel analytics program to support 400+ Web and social media properties with over 82 MM page views per month across multiple domains and platforms. 

Understanding of privacy, cookie and PII policies.

Full-time Webtrends administrators will have been trained by NETIQ.

C 3.4.5 Assumptions and Dependencies

Contractor is responsible for acquisition and annual maintenance fees for Webtrends software.

Webtrends Administrators will serve as liaison to NETIQ technical support.

When appropriate, processing will be configured in Webtrends parent/child relationship in order to maximize performance throughput.

Request turn-around will be based on current workload, complexity of request, and time required to process by Webtrends Software and servers.

All requests must be processed through the CMS ticketing system

All authorized users will be provided with a login account

Requests will be responded to and serviced during normal business hours.



C.3.5 	Objective 5 - Search Support

Provide processes, support staff and professional services to administer and configure Google Search appliances as well as the integration of searching capabilities for all public State Department web sites and Embassy websites hosted by the Content Management System Program. The Google Search appliances are currently used to support the CMS. In the event that a different search platform/device is recommended and approved during the course of this contract, offeror will provide full support for that search platform. 

C 3.5.1 Tasks

The contractor shall perform the following:

Consolidation and analysis of search requirements as specified by customer.

Administration and Configuration of Google Search appliances in failover configuration.

Maintain Google Search appliance configurations to handle over 400 website indexes.

Work with department customers to integrate custom search and taxonomy services to allow the ability to locate information quickly and easily.

Schema and metadata design - defining what we need to know about each piece of content (e.g. topic, person, organization, geographic location, etc.)

Controlled vocabulary development and management (i.e. defining which values are acceptable for the metadata fields within the schema)

Classification workflows, configuration and quality assurance (i.e. determining how the values will be applied to the content and evaluating the accuracy and consistency of their application. 

Provide 24x7x365 support and monitoring of servers integrated into the Quest Hosting Facilities.

Tune Google Search Appliance to maintain acceptable user experiences for search for all CMS-hosted Sites.

Syndication and use of feeds in RSS, ATOM, and RDF

Troubleshoot, diagnose, maintain, and repair all technical issues for the search and related CMS systems.



C 3.5.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

Taxonomies

Metadata strategy

Controlled vocabularies

Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks. 

Monthly and ad hoc reports including search statistics such as errors, most used search terms, etc.



C 3.5.3 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein.

Qualifications

Personnel assigned to this task must have knowledge and experience described below. 

Taxonomy and library sciences expertise required.

Expert   knowledge of the Google Search Appliance and its application indexing multiple domains.

Expert   knowledge of Information and database architectures, with extensive experience in MySQL and Oracle.

Expert  knowledge of DHTML, XML, XHTML, HTML, and Cascading Style Sheets

Expert proficiency in the following programming languages:  Perl, Java, Unix Shell, and JavaScript. 

Will require an intimate knowledge of the entire CMS architecture and how the systems interconnect and communicate with one another.

Ability to troubleshoot, diagnose, maintain, and repair all technical issues for the search and related CMS systems.

Experience in supporting production-level environments.

Ability to design and implement high-availability systems architectures.


C 3.5.4 Assumptions and Dependencies:

Full-time staffing required.

Maintenance and administration of Search appliance will be done off hours.

Staff will be located on and offsite as required.

24x7x365 support will be required when necessary.



C.3.6 	Objective 6 - Video Hosting and Support 

Provide an enterprise-level online video platform and development services to publish and deliver video experiences across the web to desktops, tablets, smart phones and mobile devices.  This platform shall provide easy-to-use tools for uploading and encoding, content management for multiple users, multiple languages and customizable players to match delivery platform styles.  The platform shall securely deliver the highest quality on-demand experiences to audiences everywhere, including mobile devices and the ability to deliver multiple delivery formats (e.g., QuickTime, Flash, html5).  The platform shall have a comprehensive set of APIs, SDKs, and tools architected to provide unlimited control and flexibility.  The platform shall be able to provide mobile video and iphone solutions to third-party player plug-ins, innovative formats, and pre-built integrations with CMS systems.  The platform shall provide a distribution, and syndication platform, ability to sync to YouTube, and provide social media sharing tools.  The platform shall provide a comprehensive set of built-in analytics and reports on critical audience metrics including unique viewers, new viewers, and geographic distribution of video. The platform shall provide profile reports and information on users’ bandwidth consumption, OS and browsers.

The incumbent contractor uses Brightcove to meet these requirements.  If the offeror does not intend to use Brightcove, then the offeror shall provide a detailed plan and schedule for its transition of the service to its proposed solution. 


C 3.6.1 Tasks

The contractor shall perform the following:

Provide development staff and processes to develop and support the video platform and the ability to create customized code to meet accessibility and usability requirements for video download, play and access for public audiences.

Provide global, on-demand and live video experiences to reach audience and to simplify delivery to an increasingly complex ecosystem of devices and standards across the web, mobile and online devices.

Provide a network geographically distributed across the globe and across a large number of networks (i.e., different Internet service providers) so as to prevent single points of failure and circumvent Internet bottlenecks. Support may include providing customer training.

Provide continuity of delivery to any client with a functional connection to the Internet.

Provide a scalable network capable of handling not only anticipated long-term growth in content demand, but also surges associated with demand spikes generated by singular, newsworthy event.  Specifically, this distributed network must be capable of handling “flash” crowds, which can exceed normal demand levels by at least four orders of magnitude.

Provide 508 Compliant Flash Video Player for International Audiences.

Provide Flash RIA Developer: Utilize Third Party (Brightcove) Flash API to design develop, and maintain the Department of State's Closed Caption, 508 Compliant Flash Video Player for international audiences. 

Interface with Third Party Flash Video Streaming Software Vendor (Brightcove) and other vendors.

Provide the ability to develop in HTML5 for video delivery to devices that do not support Flash.

Provide multi-channel upload using HTTP, mobile or FTE process for single, batch processing and/or automatic upload process.  

Provide a platform the creates multiple renditions of a single uploaded video files with an automatic conversions processes that accepts multiple formats of video and encodes to maximize quality and minimize file size.

Provide a content management system for the video platform that provides an easy process to sort, manage, and organize the media library.  

Provide the ability to save, sort and search the media library, with standard descriptive fields and the ability to create custom metadata for unique identifiers.   

Provide the ability to create playlist or automatically organize content based on tags and metadata.

Provide the ability to push videos into a playlists for display in players or Media RSS (MRSS) feeds.  

Provide the ability to schedule and control the publishing schedule of the video.  P

Provide the ability to access and update digital assets and metadata from video platform to integrate with CMS services, such as WebGUI and WordPress.  

Provide the ability to manage and provide admin access to multiple accounts to support an enterprise level video platform. Assign users permissions to numerous accounts and modules within accounts. 

Provide the ability to share content across multiple accounts within the video platform.

Provide tools and processes to template video players that can be customized for variety of platforms, as well as the ability to provide Section 508-compliant players with full support for screen reader accessibility, keyboard control and closed captioning.  

Provide the ability to display closed captioning text in multiple languages and the tools to build closed captioning plug-in for timed text authoring.  

Provide the ability to embed players in websites, and the ability to share videos on social media sites, such as Facebook, and Twitter.

Provide a secure delivery platform that delivers the highest quality-on-demand and live video experience by providing different renditions for each video that will automatically detect user bandwidth and dynamically switches between renditions to ensure smooth playback at the highest quality possible. 

Provide the ability to broadcast live events and create an on-demand stream instantly at the conclusion of the broadcast.

Provide comprehensive built-in analytics and reports detailing in-depth information on audience use.  

C 3.6.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

508 Compliant Flash Video Player

Content management system for the video platform

Secure delivery platform 

Templates

Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks.

Monthly and ad-hoc reports detailing audience(s) and site usage.



C 3.6.3 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein.

Qualifications

Personnel assigned to this task must have knowledge and experience described below.

Expertise in the development of Rich Internet Application (RIA) Components/Widgets, 

Expertise in the development of custom 508 Compliant Websites and applications incorporating Flash ActionScript, Dynamic HTML, XHTML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, and other programming languages as needed.

The ability to oversee and coordinate multiple tasks, meet deadlines, works cooperatively with others, and responds to crisis situations.

C 3.6.4   Assumptions and Dependencies

Work may include interfacing with other Content Delivery Network providers such as BrightCove, Youtube, etc.

Work will be performed by contract staff onsite and offsite as required.

Requests will be responded to and serviced during normal business hours.

All work products must comply with federal and DoS policies, procedures, laws and regulations, including Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.



 C 3.6.4.1 Control Over Content

The IIP Bureau management shall have complete control over its content on the contractor’s hosted website and distributed network. The contractor shall coordinate the following requirements with the Government, as follows:

The IIP Bureau management shall have the ability to immediately update or purge information from the website and distribution network through the contractor.

The IIP Bureau management, through the contractor, shall have the ability to “push” critical information out across the contractor’s network during periods where immediate availability of new content is critical.

The IIP Bureau management, through the contractor, shall have the ability to customize refresh rates for individual pages and/or product based on its determined assumptions on the “shelf-life” of the content presented.



C 3.7 	Objective 7 - Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Provide design prototypes, including graphics, site navigation, information architecture and layout of content for a variety of department and mission websites.  Advise IIP on the web design, web usability, mobile content and delivery for IIP websites, such Embassy websites, micro sites and the development of integrated branding programs for all online visual treatment – including third party social media sites (e.g., Facebook, YouTube, Twitter).  Design, develop and implement web sites, mobile, smart phone applications, and tablet applications, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for the CMS Project.  

C 3.7.1 Tasks

The contractor shall perform the following:

Develop and design web sites, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for CMS program, including sites for embassies and DoS social media communities’ sites.

Ensure that web design meets usability standard; adhering to Section 508 compliancy and user interface design standards.

Ensure that web design meets federal and DoS web publishing standards, regulations, and procedures (including accessibility).

Maintain/Update the CMS Style Guide and Publishing Standards as required. The offeror shall develop and create a web style guide for all CMS websites, mobile and applications designs.

Provide on-site and distance-learning seminars to CMS customers on web usability and CMS design practices as required by IIP.

Create and deliver presentations on CMS web design and usability standards as required by IIP.

Organize the content of the web products to ensure that it meets the needs of the USG audience and addresses usability issues.  

Implement design in HTML using the latest technologies (e.g., XHTML, CSS).

Create design prototypes, including graphics, site navigation, information architecture and layout of content for a variety of department and mission websites. 

Advise IIP on the web design, web usability, mobile content and delivery for CMS websites, such as Embassy websites, micro sites and the development of an integrated branding programs for all online visual treatment – including third party social media sites (e.g., Facebook, YouTube, Twitter).

Design, develop and implement web sites, mobile, smart phone applications, and tablet applications, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for the CMS Project.

Create templates in Content Management Systems (CMS).   

Conduct ongoing reviews of web site design and layout for the CMS Project.

Provide general support to CMS Program manager in the development of web design and usability standards and best practices.

Develop and test information architecture and site design for CMS websites.

Responsibilities are understood as not being limited to these duties but will also includes other projects as assigned by the CMS Management.



C 3.7.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

CMS style guides 

Templates

Graphics

Information architectures

Site reviews

Training materials for Seminars

Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks. 

C 3.7.3 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.




Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein.

Qualifications

Personnel assigned to this task must have knowledge and experience described below.

A trained design expert possessing proficiency in the following skills and attributes must have:

The ability to oversee and coordinate multiple tasks, meet deadlines, works cooperatively with others, and responds to crisis situations.

Experience and proficiencies in the following areas:

Hands-on design

Art direction

Creative management

Branding

Website design

Graphics and design layout

Adobe Creative Suite

Web and usability issues.

Usability and information architecture

Understanding Section 508 Compliance

User Interface Design

Implementation of design in HTML using the latest technologies (XHTML, CSS, etc.)

Experience with CMS applications (Drupal, Movable Type, Wordpress, etc.)

Excellent writing, communications, and presentation skills.

Knowledge of current international events and political awareness are good, but not essential.

C 3.7.4 Assumptions and dependencies

All work products must comply with federal and DoS policies, procedures, laws and regulations, including Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

C 3.8 	Objective 8 - Testing and Quality Assurance

Develop and follow a Test Strategy Plan and defect management approach to ensure that CMS systems meet business and technical requirements, work as expected; and can be implemented with the same characteristics.  Strategy should address test deliverables, testing approach, roles and responsibilities, communication and status reporting, risks and mitigations, test case design methodology, test methodology (top-down/bottom-up/risk based) test types (functional/system), test tools (if any) to be used, defect management approach. Offeror shall document testing results, resolve all identified errors, conflicts, and bugs, and track/report the bug/defect resolution. 

C 3.8.1 Tasks

The contractor shall perform the following:

Develop and implement a Test Strategy for the CMS Program.

Develop and implement a Quality Assurance Plan for the CMS Program.

Develop, document and maintain standards and procedures for integration and testing that meet requirements and adhere to defined policies.

Develop test plans and test scenarios for enhancements/new features or software implementations as directed by Government. 

Conduct testing of new or proposed CMS software and systems.

Document CMS testing results, resolve all identified errors, conflicts, and bugs, and tracking/reporting the bug/defect resolution. 

Evaluate and document the compliance of all new and upgraded CMS software components or services for compliance to applicable security and federal policies, regulations and procedures.

Conduct integration and system testing for all new and upgraded CMS design, software or services to include, system, integration and regression testing based on requirements defined in requirements and design documents.

Prepare and maintain documentation of test plans and test scenarios.

Prepare and Maintain documentation of efforts of testing new or existing systems

Define user acceptance test requirements.

Perform configuration changes and performance-enhancement adjustments to CMS systems and utilities as a result of changes to architectural standards or additions and upgrades to the environment.

Maintain software release matrices across QA and production environments and CMS systems.




C 3.8.2 Deliverables

These shall include the following as well as any other deliverables required by the tasks for this objective:

Test Strategy

Test Plans

Quality Assurance Plan

Reports, as required

Prepare and deliver to the Government a monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks.



C 3.8.3 Performance Requirements




C 3.8.4 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein. 

C 3.8.5 Assumptions and Dependencies

Contractor will provide offsite support personnel with the tools necessary to communicate with and support CMS users.

Contractor must supply facilities for offsite personnel and is not the responsibility of IIP.

Knowledge in use and operation of the CMS software within the CMS services framework.





C 3.9 	Objective 9 - Security

The Offeror shall be responsible for the security of all CMS systems, and shall develop and implement a Systems Security Plan, and monitor all security related requirements at the application level in accordance with Federal and Dos regulations and policies.

C 3.9.1 Tasks

Complete annual Certification and Accreditation (C&A) of CMS systems in compliance with NIST 800-37.

Conduct Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) annually for all CMS systems.  

Audit and test the Security Controls for FISMA system compliance and complete all necessary documentation. The web application vulnerability assessment scanning of web servers hosting Department of State content is a Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) mandated requirement and will be conducted by DS/CS/MIRD on an as-needed basis. 

Develop and maintain a Disaster Recovery Plan that enables IIP to quickly resume web publishing while minimizing the amount of loss. 

Ensure security of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) in compliance with FISMA and the Privacy Act.

Administer all CMS systems, develop and implement a Systems Security Plan, and monitor all security related requirements at the application level in accordance with Federal and DoS regulations and policies.  

Maintain records of patches and upgrades to software.

Establish and maintain baseline configurations and inventories of CMS information systems (including hardware, software, firmware, and documentation) throughout the system development life cycles.

Analyze enterprise vulnerabilities.

Monitor system for security breaches and unauthorized activity.

Review audit logs.

Employ enterprise anti-virus, anti-spyware and spam management, working with third party hosting vendor to ensure that all systems are protected.

Develop, maintain, and adhere to the CMS System Security Plan.

Coordinate with CMS technical support to test and apply released patches.

Conduct ongoing risk assessment and mitigation Plan for the CMS platforms and applications in compliance with the CMS Risk Management.

The offeror shall provide disaster recovery configuration and services, including annual testing.

C 3.9.2 Deliverables

Approved System Security Plan (SSP) 

Security Assessment Report (SAR)

Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) 

Work Breakdown Structure WBS for Certification and Accreditation process.

Checklists and any additional documentation required for C & A

Test Reports

Risk Register

Continuous monitoring results

Contingency plans

Configuration management plans



C 3.9.3 Performance Requirements

C 3.9.4 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein. 

Qualifications

Federal IT Security Professional (FITSP) Certification or equivalent.

Excellent writing, communications, and presentation skills.

Expert knowledge of Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), OMB Circular A-130, and the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 

C 3.9.5 Assumptions and dependencies

The offeror shall follow all DoS and federal security regulations, policies and procedures including the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Uniform Security Regulations, dated September 1985 (an implementation of Executive Order 12356) and 12 FAM 600 - Network Security Specifications.

The offeror shall allow the DoS Office of Computer Security (DS/CS) Monitoring and Incident Response Division (MIRD) the ability to use HP WebInspect, a third party web application security assessment security tool, in order to scan web servers hosting DoS content.  

The offeror shall be subject to the same Federal laws, regulations, standards as DoS personnel, regarding information and information system security.  These include, but are not limited to Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Appendix III of OMB Circular A-130, and guidance and standards, available from the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  This also includes the use of common security configurations available from NIST’s Web site at:  

C 3.10 	Objective 10 – Training

The offeror shall develop, maintain and conduct a comprehensive training program, including curriculum development and related services for the CMS Project and its customers delivered over multiple platforms including computer-based training (CBT), Adobe Connect, Internet, and hands-on workshops. The offeror shall update and develop training materials, user guides, and evaluations for all technology platforms in the CMS system. 

C 3.10.1 Tasks

Provide training on WebGUI Content Management Platform, Salesforce Enterprise, and other CMS tools (See Section J.9).

Develop training materials to be delivered using computer-based training (CBT), Adobe Connect, Internet, and hands-on workshops.

Update and develop training materials, user guides, and evaluations for all technology platforms in the CMS system. 

Conduct training both remotely and on-site at international locations.

Provide up to 5 off-site workshops per year at international locations ( supplied by Government) to be determined by IIP.

Provide training on a 24x7 basis or coverage for a global customer base.

Develop computer-based training modules and how-to's in video and textual formats based on course content.

Develop, document and deliver training requirements that support the ongoing provisions of CMS Project, including refresher courses as needed and instruction on new functionality.

Provide offsite support personnel with the tools necessary to communicate with and train CMS users. 

Coordinate training through Foreign Service Institute (FSI), to perform in-person and distance training on a world-wide basis.

Coordinate with IIP and Department of State Training Center to FSI to ensure all requirements and training are scheduled and executed as per FSI schedule and budget. 

Design, organize, set up, and deliver training courses to meet the needs of CMS customers. 

Analyze, formulate and execute all training-related needs of the CMS Project.

Write and produce course materials and other documentation, possibly using distance-learning technologies, to support users.

Assess student performance and provide feedback to IIP training coordinator.

Monitor, evaluate and review the quality and effectiveness of training, assessment and outcomes of courses delivered.

Provide Training on WebGUI Content Management Platform, and other CMS tools.



C 3.10.2 Deliverables

Training Manuals

Training Videos

Monthly webinar

How-to Guides

Training Schedule

Student Satisfaction Surveys

Monthly Reports on student satisfaction

Student satisfaction reports for onsite workshops within a week of return

C 3.10.3 Assumptions and Dependencies:

Remote training will be conducted using Adobe Connect Platform (provided by DoS) that allows a maximum of 10 participants across any number of simultaneous sessions. Adobe support is also provided.

Training staff may also take on support duties as required.

Training will not be limited to large classroom settings, but will also include individual site training.

Students represent multiple cultures, and for many English is a second language.

Offsite support personnel will be given the tools necessary to communicate with and train CMS users.

Knowledge in use and operation of the CMS software within the CMS services framework. 

The offeror’s trainer(s) shall take direction from the CMS Program Manager.

Contractor must supply facilities for offsite personnel and is not the responsibility of IIP.



C 3.10.4 Performance Requirements

C 3.10.5 Personnel

Security Requirements

Secret Clearance is required for all contractor personnel assigned to this project.

Key Personnel

Key Personnel will be supplied by the Contractor in order to fulfill the set of requirements and services as listed herein. 

C 4.	Transition Plan 

The purpose of the Transition Plan is to ensure that the Government is fully briefed on the transition of encumbered or new staff to the new contract.  

The offeror shall prepare a draft Transition Plan that includes:

All actions, responsibilities, and schedules necessary to transition encumbered positions in its current state and work in process to new contract;

A schedule of briefings identifying timeframes after the Government’s notification of authority to proceed and resources allotted, that will be required to fully transition from the current contract to the new contract.

Required activities by the incumbent Contractor during the transition period.

Approach to assume full responsibility on the effective date of the Contract.

Approach for how ongoing work will be maintained, the proposed management organization, schedule, staffing plan, orientation and training of personnel.  

The final Transition Plan shall be due 5 business days after notification of the authorization to proceed by the contracting officer. 

C 5. 	Standards 

The offeror shall uphold all applicable Department of State regulations and requirements with regard to system configuration, security, computer usage, and ethical behavior as defined in the Foreign Affairs Manual and other departmental directives.

The offeror shall comply with the following project management and software development standards, processes and procedures:

DoS Internet Steering Guidelines for Web Content Management

DoS Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM) and Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH), applicable Information Technology and software development sections

IIP INFOCENTRAL Web Site guidelines and policy

IIP Digital guidelines and policy

IIP CMS Style Guide

CMS Customer Support Services Standard Operating Procedures

CMS Training Guide

IIP Organizational Development Process

All projects and employees must follow the organization’s approved project management and software development policies and procedures

All work and deliverables/products must be completed using the organization’s approved software and hardware baseline.

The offeror shall ensure that all work is completed in accordance with US Government and Department of State standards, policies, procedures, and guidelines as provided.




Section F: Deliverables or Performance

F.1	52.252-02 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): 

FAR: www.arnet.gov/far 

DOSAR: www. statebuy.gov/home.htm 





F.2	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (MAY 1995) 

This contract shall be effective on the date of the Contracting Officer's signature, and shall remain in effect for a base period of one year, with four (4) additional one year option periods. 



F.3 	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

There are approximately 20 workstations available at the Government site at 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC.  Additional Contractor personnel may perform tasks at the Contractor’s site or remotely. Contractor is responsible for providing all equipment, software and supplies necessary to complete the tasks outlined in the SOW for offsite contractor personnel. Contractor personnel may have to report to DoS/IIP or other locations within the DC metro area to attend meetings.  

Under special circumstances, requests to modify the work site will be considered.  Requests must be submitted in writing, from the contractor, to the GTM.  Requests to work at an alternate work site will be considered on a case-by-case basis using the following procedures:

Ad-hoc requests must be submitted at least 24 hours in advance of the actual date and pre-approved by direct Project Manager and the GTM.

Long-term alternate work site requests must be submitted, in writing and approved by the GTM and the IIP Office Director

Expenses incurred for working at an alternate work-site are the responsibility of the individual (or contractor.)

As required, Contractors must comply with Federal Telecommuting procedures for working at an alternate site (e.g. complete telecommuting agreement, safety requirements, designated home office space, etc).




Section J: Attachments



J.1	STANDARD FORM 3881










J.2	DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES



Form is available at .








J.3	DD FORM 254



Form is available at  










J.4	PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE



I.	Contract Identification



Contractor Name	_________________________________________



Contract Identification No.  ______________________



Contract Type  _____________________



Period of Performance ________________ to ________________



Initial Estimated Total Contract Cost _____________________



Current Estimated (or Actual, if completed) Total Contract Cost ____________________



Description of Services/Products Provided 

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



II.	Customer Agency (or Company) Identification



Organization Name _____________________________________________________



Organization Description _________________________________________________



Geographic Distribution of Services/Products Acquired _________________________



Number of Users Served ________________



Name and Title of Respondent ____________________________________________


III.	Contractor Evaluation

Rating Guidelines

It is essential that the individual providing reference information for a contractor understand the rating scale and the criteria for assigning a particular rating to a contractor’s performance.  In general, the evaluation questions ask how well a contractor performed on an aspect of the contract.  The performance rating scale has a normal range from “Unsatisfactory” to “Exceptional”.  The ratings and general guidelines for their use are described below.

Unsatisfactory - Due to substandard performance, non-conformance to requirements, or non-responsiveness, the contractor has been unable to achieve contract requirements despite the additional use of significant customer resources.

Poor - Due to marginal performance, partial non-conformance to requirements, or occasional non-responsiveness, the contractor has required significant additional customer resources to be able to meet contract requirements.

Fair - The contractor has been able to meet contract requirements with only minor additional customer resources, performed at a generally adequate level, and has been somewhat responsive to the customer.

Good - With only minor exceptions, the contractor has generally met all contract requirements, performed up to expectations, and been responsive to the customer.

Excellent - The contractor has met all contract requirements, met all performance expectations, and has been consistently responsive to the customer.

Exceptional - The contractor has gone beyond contract requirements to add value for the customer and performed in an exemplary manner.


A.	Contract Performance



1.	Did the contractor adhere to the contract delivery schedule(s)?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



2.	Did the contractor submit required reports and documentation in a timely manner?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



3.	Were the contractor’s reports and documentation accurate and complete?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



4.	Was the contractor able to solve contract performance problems without extensive guidance from your organization?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



5.	Did the contractor demonstrate initiative in meeting contract requirements?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________








6.	Did the contractor commit adequate resources in a timely fashion to meet contract requirements and successfully solve problems?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



7.	Did the contractor submit change orders and/or required proposals in a timely manner?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________





8.	Did the contractor respond positively and promptly to technical direction, contract change orders, etc.?



Exceptional			(  )

Excellent			(  )

Good				(  )

Fair					(  )

Poor				(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________




B.	Termination History



1.	Has the contractor been partially or completely terminated under this contract for default or for the convenience of your organization?



No					(  )

Yes, for convenience	(  )

Yes, for default		(  )

If yes, please explain reasons for termination (e.g., inability to meet performance requirements): ______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



2.	Are there any pending termination actions?



No			(  )

Yes			(  )



If yes, please explain reasons and describe the status of the action: ______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



C.	Technical Performance



1.	Did the contractor consistently meet performance targets?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Please describe the specific performance criteria and how they were measured: ______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



D.	Management Performance



1.	Has the contractor been effective in managing its subcontractors?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



2.	Has the contractor committed adequate financial resources to meet contractual requirements?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



3.	Apart from technical requirements, has the contractor fulfilled all contract terms and conditions?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



4.	Did the contractor (and its subcontractors) assign qualified personnel to key management functions (e.g., project manager) for executing the contract?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



E.	Price/Cost Management



1.	Did the contractor meet its proposed cost estimates?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair			(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory		(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



F.	Customer Satisfaction



1.	Was your organization satisfied with the contractor’s performance?



Exceptional		(  )

Excellent		(  )

Good			(  )

Fair				(  )

Poor			(  )

Unsatisfactory	(  )



Comments: ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



G.	Additional Comments



Please provide below any additional information not covered in the specific questions in sections A through F that may assist the government in evaluating the contractor’s performance.



______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________



Information recorded by:

	________________________   	 ______________________ _______

	Interviewer Name                       Signature			  Date







Please send Past Performance Questionnaire directly to:





Andrea M. Smail

SmailAM@state.gov












J.5	DELIVERABLES/DELIVERY SCHEDULE














J.6	CONFORMANCE AND COMPLIANCE CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES

Overall Proposal Submission 

Conformance Cross-Reference Table








 

Volume I – Technical/Management/Key Personnel

Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Hard Copy Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume – Copy #1, #2, #3, #4, and #5










Volume I – Technical/Management/Key Personnel 

Conformance Cross-Reference Table (continued)

Electronic Copy Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5






 

Volume II – Past Performance

Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Hard Copy Past Performance Volume – Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5










Volume II – Past Performance 

Conformance Cross-Reference Table (continued)

Electronic Copy Past Performance Volume Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5










Volume III – Business

Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Hard Copy Business Volume – Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5










Volume III – Business 

Conformance Cross-Reference Table (continued)

Electronic Copy Business Volume Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5










Volume IV – Price

Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Hard Copy Price Volume – Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5










Volume IV – Price 

Conformance Cross-Reference Table (continued)

Electronic Copy Price Volume Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5








Volume I Technical/Management/Key Personnel Compliance Cross-Reference Table












Volume II Past Performance Compliance Cross-Reference Table








Volume III Business Compliance Cross-Referenced Table








Volume IV Price Compliance Cross-Reference Table








J.7	INVOICE MATERIALS









J.7.1	US Department of State – GFSC Office of Claims Invoice Approval Form










J.7.2	Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personnel Standard Form 1034





J.7.3	Invoice Summary Report


















J.8	OUTLINE OF THE CMS OPERATIONS PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLAN (PMP) 

Introduction

Program Goal

Program Scope

Program Summary

Mission

Vision

Principles

Strategies

Projects Covered by this Plan

Management Structure

Overall Structure

Roles and Responsibilities

Program Interfaces

Program Management Coordination

Design Team

Delivery Team

Independent Technical Review Team

Process Overview

Program Planning – Defining the Problem

Formulation – Prioritizing the Program to Maximize Return

Program Execution and Implementation – Making it Work

Review and Evaluation – Ensuring a Quality and Focused Program

Program Controls

Information Management

Schedule Management

Work Breakdown Structure




J.9	LIST OF CURRENT APPLICATIONS



WebGUI 6.2, 7.5, 7.6, 7.9

Salesforce Enterprise (3rd party service)

Apache 2

MySQL 4, 5

Twiki 4

MRTG 2

feed2js 1

Fedora Directory Server 1

RT 3

vsftpd 2

Gallery 2

Webtrends Analytics 8

Webtrends SDC 8

Wordpress 2

Wordpress-mu 2

Mediawiki 1

phpldapadmin 1.1, 1.2

subversion 1.6

ViewVC 1.0

Ushahidi 2.0












J.10	RESUME FORMAT TEMPLATE

I. COVER SHEET 

A. Application Date: (MMDDYYYY) Position: 



(All acronyms must be spelled out or candidate will be disapproved) 

First Name: 

Last Name:

Contractor:

B. Contractor review verification: 

Submittal of this bio by the contractor indicates the contractor has reviewed the bio and the candidate meets the minimum qualifications for the labor category. 

Reviewer #1: Name: Date of Review: (MMDDYYYY) 

Approved:	 	Disapproved:		 Insufficient Data: 

Comments: 

Reviewer #2 Name: Date of Review: (MMDDYYYY)

Approved:		 Disapproved: 		Insufficient Data:

 Comments: 

C. Minimum qualifications needed for the position applying for. 






II. CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE

(Copy and paste additional tables as needed)

(Candidates shall complete this portion)



B.  Education/Training Certifications:

(Name of school/ Type of Training/ Agency Name/ Location/ MMDDYYYY / Duration of Training)

 








III. CANDIDATE PERSONAL INFORMATION



Last Name: First Name: Middle Name: 

Social Security Number: (Last 4 digits only)

Current Security Clearance:

Citizenship: U.S.A.

Date of Birth: (MMDDYYYY) 

Place of Birth:

Current Home Address: 

Street: 

City: 

State: ZIP: 

Contact Phone: (NPA-NXX-XXXX) 

E-mail: 

The candidate grants permission for his/her resume to be submitted:

Signature of candidate:	








J.11	ACRONYM LIST










J.12	LIST OF SUPPORTED WEBSITES



The following websites are included in, but not limited to, this request for proposals.



International (IIP) Websites:











See list of embassies at 






J.13	OUTLINE OF THE TRANSITION PLAN

The Transition Plan shall show the activities that need to be carried out to ensure smooth transitioning of applications, portfolio and services with minimal or no disturbance to the CMS Program. 

The total transition period shall not exceed 60 days from contract award. 

The Transition Plan identifies all the scope, out-of scope items, all affected areas and documents the overall strategy of transitioning. 

At a minimum, it shall include the following: Scope, Transition Strategy, Transition Schedule, Governance covering client and your team along with roles and responsibilities, communication plan, escalation process, Progress review meetings, status reporting, milestones clearly identified, risks, mitigation plan. 

The transitioning strategy should include transition strategy for each functional area taking into consideration each line of business. 

An example outline is shown below.

Scope (in-scope and out of scope) 

Transitioning Strategy 

Roles and Responsibilities

Applications services taking into account each functional area with business line

Transition Schedule 

Risk Management Plan

Knowledge transfer Calendar 

Receivables and Deliverables during each phase 

Transition Governance 

Governance Activities 

Communication with various parties 

Escalation Process 

Status Reporting 

Progress Review Meetings 

Team Meetings 

Milestones 

Resource Management Plan 

Training Process




J.14	PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES

J.14.1	OBJECTIVE 1 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES





J.14.2	OBJECTIVE 2 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES





J.14.3	OBJECTIVE 3 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES





J.14.4	OBJECTIVE 4 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES










J.14.5	OBJECTIVE 8 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES





J.14.6	OBJECTIVE 9 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES








J.14.7	OBJECTIVE 10 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND MEASURES





























J.15	PAST PERFORMANCE CONTRACT PROFILE



PAST PERFORMANCE CONTRACT PROFILE











 




Section L: Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

L.2	RESERVED

L.3	RESERVED

L.4	FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984) 

The Government contemplates a single award, firm-fixed-price type contract resulting from this solicitation.

L.5	52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006) 

Protests, as defined in Section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from the CO at the address listed in Block 7 on Standard Form 33. 

The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

L.6	EXCEPTIONS AND/OR DEVIATIONS

It is the Government’s intent that a successful offeror satisfactorily meet each and every requirement as stated in this RFP.  Should the offeror request exceptions and/or deviations from any requirement of Section C, and/or any other clauses, provisions, or terms and conditions of this RFP, that request will be held to a burden of justification (e.g., the requirement is not technically achievable, or the Government referenced the wrong standard).  The offeror shall identify each requirement, clause, provision or term and condition for which exceptions and/or deviations are requested in the appropriate volume of its proposal.  Each exception and/or deviation identified must be fully explained including sufficient justification as to technical problems, cost savings, and/or benefits to the Government so that the Government can thoroughly evaluate the offeror’s input and determine if it is in the best interest of the Government to amend this RFP and allow all offerors to respond to the amended requirement(s).  If the offeror’s explanation is not acceptable to the Government, the exception and/or deviation will not be allowed and, unless the original requirement is met, the proposal may be found unacceptable. 

L.7	RESERVED



L.8	DOSAR 652.206-70 COMPETITION ADVOCATE/OMBUDSMAN (AUG 1999)

(a) The Department of States Competition Advocate is responsible for assisting industry in removing restrictive requirements from Department of State solicitations and removing barriers to full and open competition and use of commercial items. If such a solicitation is considered competitively restrictive or does not appear properly conducive to competition and commercial practices, potential offerors are encouraged to first contact the contracting office for the respective solicitation. If concerns remain unresolved, contact the Department of State Competition Advocate on (703) 516-1680, by fax at (703) 875-6155, or write to: U.S. Department of State, Competition Advocate, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE), Suite 603, SA-6, Washington, DC 20522-0602.

(b) The Department of State Acquisition Ombudsman has been appointed to hear concerns from potential offerors and contractors during the pre-award and post-award phases of this acquisition. The role of the ombudsman is not to diminish the authority of the contracting officer, the Technical Evaluation Panel or Source Evaluation Board, or the selection official. The purpose of the ombudsman is to facilitate the communication of concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations of interested parties to the appropriate Government personnel, and work to resolve them. When requested and appropriate, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of formal contract disputes. Interested parties are invited to contact the contracting activity ombudsman, Lisa Million, at telephone: 703-875-5230, fax: 703-516-1673. For an American Embassy or overseas post, refer to the numbers below for the Department Acquisition Ombudsman. Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations which cannot be resolved at a contracting activity level may be referred to the Department of State Acquisition Ombudsman at (703) 516-1680, by fax at (703) 875-6155, or write to: Department of State, Acquisition Ombudsman, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE), Suite 603, SA-6, Washington, DC 20522-0602.

L.9	DOSAR 652.219-70 DEPARTMENT OF STATE SUBCONTRACTING GOALS (APR 2004) 

(a) The offeror shall provide a Small, Small Disadvantaged, Small Woman-Owned, HUBZone Small, and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Enterprise Subcontracting Plan that details its approach for selecting and using Small, Small Disadvantaged, Small Woman-Owned, HUBZone Small, and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Enterprises.

(b) For the fiscal year 2010, the Department’s subcontracting goals are as follows:

(1) Goal for subcontracting to SB: 				49.6%

(2) Goal for subcontracting to SDB: 				5%

(3) Goal for subcontracting to SWOB: 			5%

(4) Goal for subcontracting to HUBZone Firms:		3%

(5) Goal for subcontracting to SDVO:				3%

(6) Omnibus goals (if applicable):

(i) 10% to minority business

(ii) 10% to small business

L.10	PROPOSAL SUBMISSION

Each offeror is cautioned to submit its most competitive price proposal as the Government may make the award without price discussions. 

L.11	POINTS OF CONTACT

Contractors submitting proposals shall provide a name and phone number for a Point of Contact (POC), along with any subcontractors’ POC at time of submission.

The Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) will be the liaison between the GTM and the Contracting Officer responsible for coordinating contractual modifications and any required alterations or changes to the basic order.

The Department of State GTM will be the Certifying Official for government payment vouchers.  The GTM is responsible for monitoring and oversight, direction on administrative issues, coordinating task execution with other staff, and the formal approval and acceptance of deliverables completed.  The contractor shall coordinate all work performed through the GTM.



The GTM will be:

Determined at time of award



L.12	RESERVED



L.13	PERIOD OF ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS

Offeror shall agree, if the proposal is accepted within thirty (30) calendar days (unless a greater period is inserted by the offeror) from the date specified in the solicitation for receipt of proposals, to furnish any or all of the requirements upon which prices are proposed at the price set opposite each item, performed and/or delivered at the designated point(s) within the time specified in the Schedule.

L.14	SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

All Contractor personnel assigned to this contract shall possess a Secret personnel security clearance issued by the Defense Security Service commensurate with the level of access required.  Security clearance requirements for contractors accessing DoS information systems shall be in accordance with Volume 12, Foreign Affairs Manual, Section 600.  Furthermore, while at DoS locations, the Contractor shall comply with applicable DoS regulations relative to the protection of classified and/or sensitive information.  The Office of Information Security (DS/IS/ISP/INB) is responsible for inspecting the Contractor’s activities with at DoS locations.  Visit requests are to be sent to DS/IS/ISP/INB, SA-20, 13th floor, Rosslyn, Virginia 22209.  Letters of Consent issued by the Defense Security Service must be attached to all Visit Authorization Requests (VARs).  

L.15	MULTIPLE PROPOSALS/ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

The offeror shall not submit, nor will the Government accept or evaluate, multiple proposals offering alternative solutions.  The offeror shall not submit, nor will the Government accept or evaluate, multiple solutions within one proposal.

L.16	GOVERNMENT HOLIDAYS

The following Government holidays are normally observed by Government personnel: New Years Day, Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Presidential Inauguration Day (metropolitan DC area only), President’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day designated by Federal Statute, Executive Order, and/or Presidential Proclamation. 

L.17	GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN PROVISION

Contractor personnel who, in accordance with the terms of the contract, perform their contractual duties on a government installation or in a government facility shall not report for duty under this contract in the event of an official announcement by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) that the Federal Government is closed.  The Contractor is responsible for monitoring OPM announcements and informing employees of Federal Government closures.  

If the government installation or facility is closed, the Contractor shall be allowed to work from their contractor facility or home/base site.

L.18	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION 		

The Government will provide the contractor the necessary information. The Prime Contractor as well as any contractor personnel assigned this effort must sign and provide to the Government certified Non-Disclosure Statements.  Any Government furnished information is not to be released without Government authorization by the Government.  All work, information or documentation associated with the performance of this effort is Government property, to which the Government retains unlimited rights.  The contractor shall comply with the GSA Standard Operating Procedures under HSPD-12.

L.19	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT

The work will be performed at the Department of State annex site SA-5, 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC or at any other designated Department of State location within the DC metropolitan area.  Work can be performed offsite, i.e., away from a DoS as approved by IIP. 

The Government shall provide the Contractor with use of the following property and logistical support to all onsite staff, at no charge, during the period of performance of this contract:

Office space for at most twenty (20) contractor personnel and related office furnishings

Desktop PCs, software, and laptops (as necessary). 

NOTE:  All computer resources in use at U.S. Government facilities MUST be Government furnished.

Network accounts and access to required systems

Telephones

Copiers, fax machines, and other office equipment sufficient to perform required duties

Access to required documentation, regulations, standards, guidelines, policies, procedures, and any other such documents.

Other materials required and appropriate to sufficiently perform tasks

Any Government furnished materials, data, or property shall remain the property and custody of the Government, and the contractor will be permitted use of the equipment while working on-site to perform the required services.  

The DoS will provide to all offsite staff, as required: 

Network accounts and access to required systems

Access to required documentation, regulations, standards, guidelines, policies, procedures, and any other such documents.

The Contractor must provide their staff that works offsite with use of the following property and logistical support, at no charge to DoS, during the period of performance to fulfill the requirements of this TOR:

Office space and related office furnishings.

Desktop PCs, software, and laptops (as necessary). NOTE:  All computer resources in use at the U.S. Government facility MUST be Government furnished.

Internet (Broadband) access to CMS systems and applications.

Telephones and/or international calling cards to contact CMS customers.

Copiers, fax machines, and other office equipment sufficient to perform required duties

Other materials required and appropriate to sufficiently perform tasks.

L.20	RESERVED



L.21	COMMUNICATION CONCERNING SOLICITATION

All communication regarding this solicitation should be directed to the contract specialist, Andrea Smail at , and Anthony McIntosh at .  Communication concerning this solicitation with any other Government personnel, including contractor support personnel, is prohibited unless specifically authorized elsewhere herein. If such contact occurs, the offeror making such contact may be excluded from award consideration.

L.22	QUESTIONS REGARDING SOLICITATION (MAY 1995)

Prospective offeror should submit any questions regarding this solicitation in writing by e-mail to the individual shown section L.21. Questions should be received by 2PM EST November 16, 2011. Questions received after that date will not be answered prior to the date established for the receipt of proposals. Absolutely no phone calls will be accepted.

E-mail Questions to:   

L.23	RESUMES (JUL 2001)

The offeror shall provide the Project Manager’s resume as part of its proposal.

The offeror shall submit resumes for individuals that it reasonably expects to perform on the contract (reference Section H, Key Personnel) and shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible if a proposed individual is no longer available. 

Each resume shall contain the resume holder’s signed statement that he/she grants permission for his/her resume to be submitted under this solicitation.  

If resumes are provided for individuals not presently in your employ, your employment agreements with those individuals shall be provided with your proposal, and shall be signed within 30 days prior to the date of submission of proposals. 

If final proposal revisions are requested, the offeror shall identify any changes to personnel for whom resumes were submitted. 

L.24	PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE

The Government does not intend to hold a pre-proposal conference for this solicitation. 

L.25	POST-AWARD CONFERENCE

A post award conference will be held within ten (10) days after award.  Conference site, precise date, and time to be announced by the Contracting Officer at the time of award. 

L.26	PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

The offeror shall send the Section J.4 Past Performance Questionnaire to five (5) representative organizations that are familiar with the offeror’s recent work experience.  The offeror shall instruct the organizations to send the filled-out questionnaires to  by 2:00 p.m. (Washington DC time) December 12, 2011.

The offeror is highly encouraged to ensure that its Past Performance Questionnaire is returned by the references on time.  DoS will not follow up with references in the Profiles to prompt them to return the Questionnaires.  Past Performance Questionnaires received late will not be evaluated and will affect the offeror’s adjective rating.  Also, offerors are advised to inform their references not to return the Past Performance Questionnaires using Entrust.  DoS cannot open these emails and will not follow up with the offeror or the references to ensure that the Questionnaires are resubmitted.  

L.27	DELIVERY OF PROPOSAL

The offeror shall submit hand-carried proposals to be received by the time and date specified in SF 1449 (Boxed Offers Only). 

Markings.  It is important that the outer envelope or wrapping of each offer be addressed as shown below. Failure to properly address the outer cover could cause an offer to be misdirected and received too late at the required destination. 

Offeror’s Return Address 

Contracting Officer’s Address: 

Contract Specialist:   Andrea Smail

 Hand Delivery:		U .S. Department of State (SA-6)

					Office of Acquisition Management

					1701 N. Ft. Myer Drive

					Arlington, Virginia  22209





“TO BE OPENED BY CONTRACTING OFFICER ONLY” 

The time of receipt of Compact Disk Read Only Memory (CD-ROMs) constitutes the time of delivery of proposals.  Any technical problems relating to verification of digital signatures or readability of the CD-ROMs will be resolved after receipt.

All offers shall be submitted to the designated Government Representative at the following address not later than 2:00 P.M. (local Washington D.C. time) on: December 12, 2011.  No offers will be accepted via fax or email.  The delivery address is:

Hand-Carried:

Address:	United States Department of State
Office of Acquisition Management
1701 N. Ft. Myer Drive

		 (Enter building via visitor entrance)

		Arlington, VA 22209

		Attention: Ms. Andrea Smail

Delivery of the proposals, hand-carried will be accepted Monday through Thursday, except on federal holidays or during Government shut down, at the addresses set forth above.  Should the building at this location be closed to the public for any reason on the date and time proposals are due, proposals shall be due at the same time of day on the first date after the date when the building is open to the public.		

L.28	AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL

Block 17 of SF 33 (page 1 of this solicitation) shall be signed by an official authorized to bind the organization.  The proposal shall be submitted in the required number of copies, to the address, and marked as indicated in blocks 9, 8, and 7, respectively, of SF 33.  

Each response to this solicitation shall consist of four volumes: 

Technical/Management/Key Personnel

Past Performance

Business

Price

Each volume shall include the following components: 

Cover Page.  Each volume’s cover page shall include the solicitation name, solicitation number, volume name, volume number, copy number, date, name(s) of responding organization(s), and revision number if appropriate. 

Table of Contents.  Each volume shall have a table of contents. 

Information Requested in Instructions.  The RFP provides instructions for the Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume in Section L.38.1, for the Past Performance Volume in Section L.38.2 for the Business Volume in Section L.38.3, and for the Price Volume in Section L.38.4. 

Electronic media versions of the volumes, as specified in Section L.37, shall be digitally signed by the official authorized to bind the responding organization(s).  Further instructions for completing the digital signature process will be made available no later than 30 calendar days prior to the due date of proposals.  The Government reserves the right to update the digital signature process as necessary, at no additional cost to the Government.

L.29	MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROPOSALS

All proposal modifications, as defined in FAR 15.001, shall meet the following criteria: 

Submit changes in the same hardcopy and electronic copy quantities as required for the initial proposal submission.  Electronic modification submissions shall conform to the organization and format requirements for the original submission as described in Section L.37.  For electronic submissions, the offeror shall resubmit in entirety the lowest-level numbered section of its proposal that contains the change.  Such changed sections shall be digitally signed in the same way as the original proposals. 

Submit hardcopy changes as complete change pages.  Changes shall be indicated by vertical lines adjacent to the change in the right margin to indicate any change that has been made. 

Include the date of the modification in the lower right hand corner at the bottom of the respective page.  For inserted pages, number each page using an alphanumeric designator (e.g., 1, 1a, 1b, 2, 3, if two pages are inserted between pages 1 and 2). 

Maintain the separation between information other than cost or pricing data (as specified for the original proposal submission) and the proposed prices.  Submit any changed electronic and hard copies of the Price Proposal with a complete update of all prices, not just the price(s) that may be changed. 

L.30	PRE-AWARD AUDIT REQUIREMENTS

Reserved

L.31	PROPOSAL PREPARATION COSTS 

The Government shall not pay any cost for the preparation, submission, development and presentation of operational capabilities demonstrations or associated with proposals in response to this solicitation.  The CO is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this procurement.

L.32	INFORMATION TO OFFERORS

The offeror is reminded that information furnished under this Solicitation may be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  Therefore, all items that are confidential to business or that contain trade secrets or proprietary or personnel information must be clearly marked.  Marking of items will not necessarily preclude disclosure when Department of State (DoS) determines disclosure is warranted by FOIA.  However, if such items are not marked, all information contained within the submitted documents will be deemed releasable.

L.33	DISPOSITION OF PROPOSALS

One copy of each proposal will be retained by the Department of State.  No destruction certificate will be issued.

L.34	CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

The offeror is advised that the CO will utilize the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) database as one source of information in assessing past performance under this solicitation.  PPIRS can be accessed at: .  In order to access their own information in PPIRS, offerors must first gain access through the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) process.  The offeror shall go to the CCR web site at:  to register for the first time or update their information profile to indicate a past performance Point of Contact.  In CCR, offerors shall assign themselves a Marketing Partner Identification Number (MPIN), which they will use to gain access to PPIRS. 

L.35	GENERAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

The purpose of this section is to specify the general requirements for the contents of proposals.  The proposal shall be submitted in five copies of electronic media and five hard copies.  The offeror shall submit items such as annual reports, brochures, or oversize charts in hardcopy if they are unavailable electronically.  The specific requirements for the general proposal contents are presented in the following sections.  The offeror shall confirm its conformance to each of these requirements in its response to the Conformance Cross-Reference Tables. 

The offeror shall examine and follow all instructions.  Failure to do so may result in the proposal being determine to be unacceptable and removed from consideration.  

The proposal shall be presented in separate volumes as shown in Table L.35-1. 

Table L.35-1 Contents of Proposals



Each proposal volume shall be limited to the maximum number of pages as shown in Table L.35.2.  

Table L.35-2 Page Count of Proposal Volumes



The requirements for each of these volumes are set forth in general terms in this section; detailed instructions are provided as Detailed Proposal Instructions in Section L.38.  Failure to follow format and composition directions will adversely impact proposal evaluation.

Each volume shall contain an Executive Summary.  The Executive Summary in each volume shall be identical.  The purpose of the Executive Summary is to present a brief introduction and overview of the offeror’s entire proposal.  The Executive Summary shall be written so that a lay person can easily grasp the essence of the approach being proposed and the offeror’s management concept.  The Executive Summary shall not exceed seven (7) pages and shall contain no price information. 

Each volume shall have a Table of Contents. 

In determining the “Maximum Pages” for each proposal volume, the following definitions shall be used: 

Page.  One side of a standard letter size 8.5 x 11 inch sheet of paper.  Therefore, if printed on both sides, there are two “pages” per sheet of paper. The Maximum Pages for each volume is based on the assumed use of these standard 8.5 x 11 inch sheets.  The maximum number includes all text and fold-out pages regardless of whether the pages are in the main portion of the volume or in an appendix or attachment to the volume.  The following are the only pages that shall not be included in computing the “Maximum Number of Pages”: 

Cover Page, as specified in Section L.28-A.  Do not provide proposal information on the cover page.  

Section Tab/Separator Pages, Only provide the Section Name/Number.  Do not provide proposal information on the Section Tabs/Separator Pages.  

Table of Contents. 

List of Tables. 

List of Figures. 

Conformance Cross-Reference Tables. 

Compliance Cross-Reference Tables. 

Pages intentionally left blank. 

Executive Summary.

Fold-Out Page.  Not to exceed 42.5 x 11 inches in size and no more than 10 per proposal.  Fold-out pages are to be used only for diagrams and pricing detail.  

Each page shall conform to the following: 

Page Margin.  Each page shall have the following margins: 

Top and Bottom: 1.5 inch 

Left and Right: 1.13 inch 

Header and Footer: 0.5 inch

Font.  The font used in the offeror’s proposal shall be 12 point Arial with no reduction.  However, figures and charts may be reduced as long as text on the figures or charts is at least 66 percent of full size (i.e., 12 point).  

Spacing.  The Technical/Management/Key Personnel, Past Performance, Business, and Price volumes shall have line spacing of one-and-a-half. 

The Transition Plan shall be an appendix to the Technical/Management/Key Personnel volume.

The CMS Operations Program Management Plan shall be an appendix to the Technical/Management/Key Personnel volume.

L.36	ELECTRONIC MEDIA GENERAL INFORMATION

The proposal shall include the following four sets of files, with each set recorded on a separate CD-ROM.  Five copies (20 volumes/CD-ROMs) of the proposal shall be submitted as follows: 

Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume Files on CD-ROM.  The offeror shall provide on CD-ROM all word processing files (containing embedded graphical, spreadsheet, multimedia, or other objects) that comprise the Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume.  The offeror shall also provide all embedded object files in their native formats, subject to the restrictions enumerated in Section L.37.  No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the Technical/Management/Key Personnel Conformance and Compliance Cross-Reference Tables.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the CMS Operations Program Management Plan.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the Transition Plan.  If requested by the Government, each copy shall be digitally signed, according to further instructions, before being recorded on the CD-ROM.

Past Performance Volume Files on CD-ROM.  The offeror shall provide on CD-ROM all word processing files (containing embedded graphical, spreadsheet, multimedia, or other objects) that comprise the Past Performance Volume.  The offeror shall also provide all embedded object files in their native formats, subject to the restrictions enumerated in Section L.37.  No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the Past Performance Conformance and Compliance Cross-Reference Tables.  If requested by the Government, each copy shall be digitally signed, according to further instructions, before being recorded on the CD-ROM.

Business Volume Files on CD-ROM.  The offeror shall provide on CD-ROM all word processing files (containing embedded graphical, spreadsheet, multimedia, or other objects) that comprise the Business Volume. The offeror shall also provide all embedded object files in their native formats, subject to the restrictions enumerated in Section L.37.  No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the Business Conformance and Compliances Cross-Reference Table.  If requested by the Government, each copy shall be digitally signed, according to further instructions, before being recorded on the CD-ROM.

Price Volume Files on CD-ROM.  The offeror shall provide on CD-ROM all word processing files (containing embedded graphical, spreadsheet, multimedia, or other objects) that comprise the Price Volume of the proposal.  The offeror shall provide a separate file containing the Price Conformance and Compliance Cross-Reference Tables.  The offeror shall also provide all embedded object files in their native formats, subject to the restrictions enumerated in Section L.37.  If requested by the Government, each copy shall be digitally signed, according to further instructions, before being recorded on the CD-ROM.

L.36.1	CD-ROM Labeling Requirements 

Each CD-ROM shall be clearly marked with volume name, volume number, copy number, solicitation name, solicitation number, date, and name of responding organization.

L.37	Electronic Media Version Requirements

The offeror shall submit their proposal on electronic media in the formats specified in this section.  The offeror should recognize that the Government evaluators will be using the electronic version for reading, searching, reviewing, and evaluating.  Proposals that use object embedding techniques may allow the evaluators to better understand the proposals and concepts contained therein. The offeror shall submit CD-ROMs (650 megabyte nominal capacity) that are written in compliance with the International Organization for Standardization-9660 standard for file format structure.  Each CD-ROM’s root directory shall contain a text file named 00README.TXT that explains the volume’s directory structure, briefly describes each file’s contents, and lists the name and telephone number of the offeror’s technical point of contact who can answer questions in the event of problems in reading the contents of the CD-ROM. 

L.37.1	Hardware/Software Compatibility Requirements 

Copies of the proposals will be processed on workstations that incorporate at least the following minimum hardware and software configuration.  Viewing of the offeror’s proposals shall not require any additional hardware or software products. 

PC with 1600 Megahertz Intel Pentium CPU and 256 Megabytes RAM 

48X CD-ROM drive 

17-inch (nominal) color monitor with SVGA graphics 

Microsoft Windows 2007 or later 

Microsoft Office Version 2007 with current security patches installed as appropriate (including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). 

L.37.2	Word Processing File Requirements 

All word processing files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be written in Microsoft Word 2007 format with all external objects embedded (not linked).  For the initial proposal submission, all word documents shall be submitted with all revisions accepted by the offeror; no revision marks shall be visible to the Government.  For modifications to the initial proposal, the offeror shall use the “Track Changes” mode with revision marks and vertical change bars visible to the Government. 

L.37.3	Permissible Image File Formats 

Image files provided on the Master CD-ROMs shall be stored in one of the formats listed below, as appropriate: 

Bitmapped images are to be stored in either Graphics Interchange Format (87a or 89a, interlaced or non-interlaced formats) or Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) image formats. 

Vectored images are to be stored in Windows Metafile format (must be recognizable in Word 2007); however, graphics created within PowerPoint as part of a PowerPoint presentation are to be stored in PowerPoint presentation (.ppt) format. 

L.37.4	Multimedia Files 

Multimedia files will not be accepted, e.g., QuickTime or Windows Media Player.

L.37.5	File Compression Restrictions 

Files delivered on any of the CD-ROMs may be compressed using WinZip for Windows 2002, available via the Internet at .  This is an external file compression utility that generates files with a .zip file extension.  The offeror shall use the current version of WinZip (e.g., version 9 or later).  Single files or groups of files compressed into a single .zip file must be contained on a single CD-ROM.  A compressed single file shall not “span” across multiple CD-ROMs.  File compression that is a standard characteristic of the file format (e.g., JPEG) is permitted.  However, there shall be no reliance on hardware decompression to allow a file to be viewed at its intended image size, resolution, and/or speed (e.g., requiring a hardware codec to play a video file at an acceptable frame rate). 

L.38	DETAILED PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

This section provides detailed instructions for preparing proposals.  

The offeror shall fill in the Conformance and Compliance Cross-Reference Tables.  The offeror shall indicate conformance to instructions in the Conformance Cross-Reference Table by entering ‘Yes’ if in conformance and ‘No’ if not in conformance in the column labeled ‘Satisfied (Yes/No)’.  The offeror shall indicate compliance with the requirements in the Compliance Cross-Reference Tables by entering ‘Yes’ if in compliance and ‘No’ if not in compliance in the column labeled ‘Satisfied (Yes/No)’.  The offeror shall provide the location (section number) in their proposal where the offeror has responded to each requirement in the Compliance Cross-Reference Table.

Each volume shall be separate and complete in itself.  For each volume, the offeror shall present information in sufficient detail to enable an evaluator, having a general professional expertise in the response area of interest, to thoroughly understand the response to this solicitation.  The detail shall be complete within the volume so that the evaluator would not have to reference another volume to understand the offeror’s response, and that the proposal clearly demonstrates the offeror’s ability to perform in accordance with the Government’s requirements.

L.38.1	Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume 

The Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume of the proposal shall conform to the following outline: 

Executive Summary

Technical/Management/Key Personnel Conformance Cross-Reference Table 

Technical/Management/Key Personnel Compliance Cross-Reference Table 

Technical Approach and Competencies Factor

Operational Support and Development (Objective 2)

Customer Service and Support (Objective 3)

Web Metrics and Reporting System (Objective 4)

Search Support (Objective 5)

Training (Objective 10)

Video Hosting and Support (Objective 6)

Design, Usability and Information Architecture (Objective 7)

Testing and Quality Assurance (Objective 8)

Security (Objective 9)

Management Approach Factor

Program/Project Management (Objective 1)

Transition Plan

CMS Operations Program Management Plan

Administrative Support

Key and Support Personnel Factor

Program/Project Management Personnel

Operational Support and Development Personnel

Customer Service and Support Personnel

Web Metrics and Reporting System Personnel

Search Support Personnel

Training Personnel

Video Hosting and Support Personnel

Design, Usability, and Information Architecture Personnel

Testing and Quality Assurance Personnel

Security Personnel

L.38.1.1	Executive Summary 

The Executive Summary for the Technical/Management/Key Personnel, Past Performance, Business, and Price volumes shall be identical. The Executive Summary in each volume shall be identical.  The purpose of the Executive Summary is to present a brief introduction and overview of the offeror’s entire proposal.  The Executive Summary shall be written so that a lay person can easily grasp the essence of the approach being proposed and the offeror’s management concept.  The Executive Summary shall not exceed seven (7) pages and shall contain no price information.

L.38.1.2	Technical/Management/Key Personnel Conformance Cross-Reference Table

The proposal submission requirements pertaining to the Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume are summarized in the conformance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal. 

L.38.1.3	Technical/Management/Key Personnel Compliance Cross-Reference Table

The RFP requirements pertaining to the Technical/Management/Key Personnel Volume are summarized in the compliance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal.

L.38.1.4	Technical Approach and Competencies Response

The Technical Approach and Competencies Response shall describe the offeror’s approach to satisfy the requirements in:

Section C.3.2.1 – Operational Support and Development (Objective 2)

Section C.3.3.1 – Customer Service and Support (Objective 3)

Section C.3.4.1 – Web Metrics and Reporting System (Objective 4)

Section C.3.5.1 – Search Support (Objective 5)

Section C.3.10.1 – Training (Objective 10)

Section C.3.6.1 – Video Hosting and Support (Objective 6)

Section C.3.7.1 – Design, Usability and Information Architecture (Objective 7)

Section C.3.8.1 – Testing and Quality Assurance (Objective 8)

Section C.3.9.1 – Security (Objective 9)

Submit a clear and complete description of the technical approach, methodology, technologies and/or techniques to be applied in achieving the objectives described in the Statement of Objectives which reflects an in-depth understanding of program objectives, environment and constraints, describes the offeror’s capabilities and approach to ensure program success and provides an explanation of how its solution provides efficiency, effectiveness and cost containment in achieving all of the objectives.    

The offeror’s discussion must clearly and convincingly demonstrate how the requirements of the contract will be met.  The technical response shall demonstrate that the offeror has a comprehensive understanding of support to be provided; the ability to provide prompt delivery on short notice; and the ability to provide the required technical expertise.

Describe your approach for technology innovation and infusion over the life of the contract; particularly with regard to how the offeror stays abreast of new technology, pilots and implements innovative technology as part of base operations (i.e., without requiring additional contract tasks/funding) and uses it to drive the Government’s cost down over the life of the contract.

L.38.1.4.1	Operational Support and Development

Provide your approach for providing integrated IT and online support services, which includes, but is not limited to, a wide-spectrum of technical development, support, management and security of all systems that comprise the CMS project/program, including the integration and 24x7x365 maintenance of CMS and IT systems at the Qwest hosting facility in Sterling, Virginia. 

Provide your approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web template development, usability and section 508 compliance, and performance testing of services and CMS applications in order to a consistent approach to an enterprise web publishing program.  This support includes all sites under the umbrella of the CMS and includes the integration of blogs, and social medial 3rd party services and tools. 

L.38.1.4.2	Customer Service and Support

Provide your approach for providing processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices to achieve the organization’s strategic goals and enable the organization to apply lessons learned throughout the program life-cycle. 

L.38.1.4.3	Web Metrics and Reporting System 

Provide your approach for providing Enterprise-class, multi-channel analytics implementation and management for 400+ Web and social media properties with over 35 MM page views per month across multiple domains and platforms. 



Provide your approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web analytics services in order to provide web log reporting capabilities to the webmasters and principals for all State Department sites as well as Embassy web sites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 

L.38.1.4.4	Search Support

Provide your approach for providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and configure Google Search appliances as well as the integration and development of taxonomy tools and protocols for searching capabilities for all Department of State web sites and U.S. Mission websites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 

L.38.1.4.5	Training

Provide your approach for developing, maintaining and conducting a comprehensive training program, including curriculum development and related services for the CMS Project and its customers delivered over multiple platforms including computer-based training (CBT), Adobe Connect, Internet, and hands-on workshops. 

Provide your approach for updating and developing training materials, user guides, and evaluations for all technology platforms in the CMS system. 

L.38.1.4.6	Video Hosting and Support

Provide your approach for providing an enterprise-level online video platform and development services to publish and deliver video experiences across the web to desktops, tablets, smart phones and mobile devices that satisfies the requirements in Section C.3.6.  

If you do not intend to use Brightcove, then provide a detailed plan and schedule for its transition of the service to its proposed solution. 

L.38.1.4.7	Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Provide your approach for providing design prototypes, including graphics, site navigation, information architecture and layout of content for a variety of department and mission websites.  

Provide your approach for advising IIP on the web design, web usability, mobile content and delivery for IIP websites, such Embassy websites, micro sites and the development of integrated branding programs for all online visual treatment – including third party social media sites (e.g., Facebook, YouTube, Twitter).  

Provide your approach for designing, developing and implementing web sites, mobile, smart phone applications, and tablet applications, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for the CMS Project.  

L.38.1.4.8	Testing and Quality Assurance

Provide your approach and methodology for developing and following a Test Strategy Plan and defect management approach to ensure that CMS systems meet business and technical requirements, work as expected; and can be implemented with the same characteristics.  Strategy should address test deliverables, testing approach, roles and responsibilities, communication and status reporting, risks and mitigations, test case design methodology, test methodology (top-down/bottom-up/risk based) test types (functional/system), test tools (if any) to be used, defect management approach. 

Provide your approach for documenting testing results, resolving all identified errors, conflicts, and bugs, and tracking/reporting the bug/defect resolution. 

L.38.1.4.9	Security

Provide your approach for developing and implementing a Systems Security Plan.  

Provide your approach for administering the security of all CMS systems.

Provide your approach for monitoring all security related requirements at the application level in accordance with Federal and DoS regulations and policies.

L.38.1.5	Management Approach Response

The Management Approach Response shall describe the offeror’s approach to satisfy the requirements in:

Section C.3.1.1 – Program/Project Management (Objective 1)

Section C.4 – Transition Plan

Section C.3.1 – CMS Operations Program Management Plan

Section C.3.1.2 – Administrative Support

The offeror’s Management Approach Response shall demonstrate that the offeror has the ability to meet scope and complexity requirements of this solicitation.  

The offeror’s Management Approach Response shall demonstrate that the offeror has adequate corporate resources to meet the requirements of this solicitation.

Provide a statement of responsibilities and authorities of management personnel and description of such elements as span of control, degree of autonomy, and lines of communication with all parties involved with the contract. 

Provide a clear and complete description of your management approach, methodology, and/or techniques to be applied in achieving the objectives described in Section C.    

L.38.1.5.1	Program/Project Management

Describe your approach for providing a project management framework and implementing processes to support the CMS program.

Describe your approach for providing an advanced set of Project Management, Program Management, and Program Management Office services for Information Technology (IT) and other specialized support under a performance-based arrangement, which will maximize the ability of the Department to perform its mission at a lower total cost and meet budget, schedule, and quality goals; and provide project management to ensure the continued operation and development of the CMS project and its core infrastructure.  

Describe your approach for: 

Applying project, program, and program management office roadmaps that clearly define objectives of projects; divide and subdivide the project scope into work packages (work breakdown structure); define specific activities that need to be performed for each work package in order to accomplish the project objective; graphically portray network diagram activities; make a time estimate for how long it will take to complete each activity; make a cost estimate for each activity; and calculate a project schedule and budget to determine whether the project can be completed within the required time, with the allotted funds, and with the available resources

Providing consistent and accurate reporting of performance to the  Government

Identifying, assessing, and mitigating Program risk(s)

Managing subcontractor(s) or third party services

Tailoring program life-cycle standards and conducting critical milestone evaluations and stage-gate reviews

Applying discipline to communications, configuration management, change management and other processes

Providing quality assurance and other conformance support services

Providing just-in-time expertise; conducting periodic assessments; and developing plans (e.g., test, interoperability, e-Government migration and implementation), requirements definitions, joint concepts, analysis of alternatives; performance measurements and technical management

Providing seamless phase-in of contractor personnel without interruption in CMS support across the serviced CMS customer based (Bureaus, missions, offices and interagency partners)

Providing project management of CMS program, teams, and personnel for all web sites and projects under the umbrella of CMS program

L.38.1.5.2	Transition Plan

Provide as part of your proposal, a draft Transition Plan that follows the outline found in Section J.13.

Describe your actions, responsibilities, and schedules necessary to transition encumbered positions in its current state and work in process to new contract.

Describe your schedule of briefings identifying timeframes after the Government’s notification of authority to proceed and resources allotted, that will be required to fully transition from the current contract to the new contract.

Describe your phase-in approach and indicate required activities by the incumbent Contractor during the transition period.  If proposed, the Government will evaluate for reasonableness, any assumptions or dependencies on the incumbent Contractor.  

Describe your approach to assume full responsibility on the effective date of the Contract.  

Describe your approach for how ongoing work will be maintained, the proposed management organization, schedule, staffing plan, orientation and training of personnel.  

L.38.1.5.3	CMS Operations Program Management Plan

Provide as part of your proposal, a draft CMS Operations Program Management Plan that includes the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance and schedule requirements throughout execution of this contract.  

Describe your management approach including processes, organizations, standards, policies, and other key management information systems to ensure delivery of services in accordance with the requirements.  

Describe the process to be followed by the Project Manager in obtaining decisions beyond his/her authority and in resolving priority conflicts for resources/functions not under the Project Manager's direct control such as personnel, finances, and facilities.  

Describe the effectiveness of the Project Manager’s authority as well as his/her support staff.

See Section J.8 for the outline for the CMS Operations Program Management Plan.

L.38.1.5.4	Administrative Support

Describe your approach for providing administrative, acquisition and financial support work associated with the office and the CMS program. 

L.38.1.6	Key and Support Personnel Response

The Key and Support Personnel Response shall describe the offeror’s approach to satisfy the requirements in:

Section C.3.1.5 – Personnel

Section C.3.2.4 – Personnel

Section C.3.3.4 – Personnel

Section C.3.4.4 – Personnel

Section C.3.5.3 – Personnel

Section C.3.10.5 – Personnel

Section C.3.6.3 – Personnel

Section C.3.7.3 – Personnel

Section C.3.8.4 – Personnel 

Section C.3.9.4 – Personnel

Provide your approach to hire and maintain qualified staff; handle personnel issues; assemble high quality staff to fill immediate requirements; and provide staff with all the necessary support and oversight. The offeror shall submit up to three (3) contractor-designated key personnel resume profiles consisting of no more than three (3) pages for each profile.  The profiles shall include name, education, certifications, current security clearance, technical skills, relevant training received within the past two (2) years and relevant work experience.  The offeror shall describe the roles and responsibilities for each of the key personnel proposed.  

L.38.1.6.1	Program/Project Management Personnel

Provide the resume of the person that satisfies the requirements of the Project Manager found in Section C.3.1.5.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resume.

L.38.1.6.2	Operational Support and Development Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.2.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.3	Customer Service and Support Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.3.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.4	Web Metrics and Reporting System Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.4.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.5	Search Support Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.5.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.6	Training Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.10.5.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.7	Video Hosting and Support Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.6.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.8	Design, Usability, and Information Architecture Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.7.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.9	Testing and Quality Assurance Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.8.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.1.6.10	Security Personnel

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.9.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.

L.38.2	Past Performance Volume 

The Past Performance Volume of the proposal shall conform to the following outline: 

Executive Summary

Past Performance Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Past Performance Compliance Cross-Reference Table

Past Performance Client References

Do not include performance information from other divisions or corporate management entities not planned for direct involvement or that will not significantly influence the performance during the execution of the program.  Provide the most current information for the reference contacts.

L.38.2.1	Executive Summary 

The Executive Summary for the Technical/Management/Key Personnel, Past Performance, Business, and Price volumes shall be identical. The Executive Summary in each volume shall be identical.  The purpose of the Executive Summary is to present a brief introduction and overview of the offeror’s entire proposal.  The Executive Summary shall be written so that a lay person can easily grasp the essence of the approach being proposed and the offeror’s management concept.  The Executive Summary shall not exceed seven (7) pages and shall contain no price information.

L.38.2.2	Past Performance Conformance Cross-Reference Table

The proposal submission requirements pertaining to the Past Performance Volume are summarized in the conformance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal. 

L.38.2.3	Past Performance Compliance Cross-Reference Table

The RFP requirements pertaining to the Past Performance Volume are summarized in the compliance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal.

L.38.2.4	Past Performance Client References

The offeror shall provide three (3) Past Performance Contract Profiles (Refer to Section J.15 – Past Performance Contract Profile) that are directly relevant to the required effort and are of similar size (dollar value), scope (substantially same services) and complexity (degree of difficulty).  Two of the three past performance profiles shall be for services performed by the prime offeror.  The offeror shall only cite experiences that have occurred for Federal government customers within the past 36 months prior to the issuance of this RFP.  The offeror shall provide required information using the Past Performance Profile template provided in Section J.15.  

The Past Performance Contract Profile should describe the offeror’s experience in a) supporting functions and best practices related to the Project Management Institute® Project Management Knowledge areas to maximize the organization’s ability to perform its mission at a lower total cost to meet budget, schedule and quality goals; b) assisting Federal Agencies maximize the contribution of the organization’s resources to achieve its mission by establishing a clear line of sight from investments to measurable performance improvement whether for the entire enterprise or a portion (or segment) thereof; c) evaluating, developing, complimenting and managing a variety of portfolio management and risk management programs; d) assisting federal agencies to implement processes and tools that support executive decision makers and others in making well-thought out decisions that support investments, the mission and business goals of the organization; and e) providing a wide spectrum of project management standardization, training, and development based on best practices to achieve the organizations strategic goals.

For each Past Performance Contract Profile, the offeror shall also submit an electronic copy of the Past Performance Questionnaire [Refer to Section J.4, Past Performance Questionnaire] with Part I – Contract Identification completed with its technical proposal.  

The offeror shall also send the Past Performance Questionnaire to the respective references to fill-out and return Part II – Government Past Performance Evaluation via email to  by 2:00 p.m. (Washington DC time) December 12, 2011.

L.38.3	Business Volume 

The Business Volume of the proposal shall conform to the following outline: 

Executive Summary

Business Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Business Compliance Cross-Reference Table

Standard Form 33

Representations and Certifications

Offeror Responsibility

Joint Venture Information

L.38.3.1	Executive Summary 

The Executive Summary for the Technical/Management, Past Performance, Business, and Price volumes shall be identical. The Executive Summary in each volume shall be identical.  The purpose of the Executive Summary is to present a brief introduction and overview of the offeror’s entire proposal.  The Executive Summary shall be written so that a lay person can easily grasp the essence of the approach being proposed and the offeror’s management concept.  The Executive Summary shall not exceed seven (7) pages and shall contain no price information.

L.38.3.2	Business Conformance Cross-Reference Table

The proposal submission requirements for the Business Volume are summarized in a conformance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal. 

L.38.3.3	Business Compliance Cross-Reference Table

The RFP requirements for the Business Volume are summarized in a compliance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal.  

L.38.3.4	Standard Form 33 

This form shall be signed and executed by the offeror.

A Standard Form (SF) 33, Solicitation, Offer, and Award, completed and signed by the offeror, constitutes the offeror’s acceptance of the terms and conditions of this solicitation. Therefore, the form must be executed by a representative of the offeror who is authorized to commit the offeror to contractual obligations. 

The offeror is expected to examine the entire solicitation. Failure to do so shall be at the offeror’s own risk. 

The offeror shall furnish the information required by the solicitation. The offeror shall sign SF 33, Block 17, and fill in all blocks of Section K as required. Erasures or other changes must be initialed by the individual signing the form. Offers signed by an agent are to be accompanied by evidence of their authority.  For additional information, offerors should refer to FAR 52.204-7. 

L.38.3.5	Representations and Certifications

The offeror shall use the Government electronic systems for the submission of the Representations and Certifications as explained in Section K.2, 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications.

L.38.3.6	Offeror’s Responsibility 

In order for an offeror to receive a contract, the CO must first make an affirmative determination that the prospective contractor is responsible in accordance with the provisions of Subpart 9.1 of the FAR.  To assist the CO in this regard, the offeror shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal: 

A statement of financial condition of the offeror.  

Demonstration of prior satisfactory performance. 

Demonstration of adequate financial resources or the ability to obtain such resources prior to award in order to successfully perform the contract. 

Demonstration of the ability to comply with the required or proposed delivery schedule, taking into consideration all existing business commitments, both commercial and Government. 

Demonstration of a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics. 

Demonstration of the necessary organization, experience, operational controls, and technical skills, or the ability to obtain them prior to award. 

Demonstration of the necessary accounting controls or the ability to obtain them prior to award.

Demonstration that the offeror is otherwise qualified and eligible to receive an award under applicable laws and regulations. 

L.38.3.6.1	Estimating System

Reserved

L.38.3.6.2	Billing System

Offeror shall indicate if they have a Government-determined adequate billing system.  If the offeror has such a system, it shall submit evidence to support the adequacy determination.  If the offeror does not have such a system, it shall describe its billing system and established billing policies, practices, and procedures.

L.38.3.6.3	Purchasing System

Offeror shall indicate if they have a Government-approved purchasing system.  If the offeror has such a system, it shall submit evidence to support the approval.  If the offeror does not have such a system, the offeror shall submit the name and contact information of the offeror’s Government cognizant Federal agency official.  The cognizant Federal agency normally will be the agency with which the offeror has the largest dollar amount of negotiated contracts, including options.

L.38.3.6.4	Status of Property Management System (June 2007)

(a)  When used in this provision, government-furnished property, government property, and contractor-acquired property are all defined in FAR 45.101.

(b)  Potential offerors shall include in their quote or offer:

(1)  Whether the offeror’s property management system that will be used on this contract to track government-furnished property and/or contractor-acquired property has been determined to be adequate by a federal property manager.

(2)  The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of both the:

(i) Cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) responsible for review and the determination of adequacy of the contractor’s property system; and

(ii) The cognizant contractor government property manager.

(3)  The voluntary consensus standard or industry leading practices and standards to be used in the management of Government property, or existing property management plans, methods, practices or procedures for accounting of property.

(End of provision)

L.38.3.7	Joint Venture Information

If two or more parties have formed a partnership or joint venture (see FAR Subpart 9.6) for the purposes of submitting a proposal under this solicitation and, if selected, would perform the contract as a single entity, they must submit the Corporate Charter, By-Laws, or Joint Venture or Partnership Agreement. In addition, the teaming arrangements must be identified, company relationships must be fully disclosed and respective responsibilities and method of work must be expressly stipulated. The joint venture or partnership agreement must include a full discussion of the relationship between the organizations, including identification of the organization, which will have responsibility for negotiation of the resultant contract, which organization will have accounting responsibility, how work will be allocated, and profit or fee, if any, shared. In addition, the principals to the joint venture or partnership agreement must agree to be jointly and severally liable for performance of the contract and acts or omissions relating to the contract.  Written evidence of such agreement is required with the proposal.



L.38.4	Price Volume 

The offeror shall complete the Excel Spreadsheet Table B-2 and other information required in Section B.  Failure to submit a complete Section B or other required price information requested in Section L.38.4.4 will render the Price Volume non-responsive, and offerors which submit a non-responsive Price Volume may be excluded from award consideration.

The Price Volume of the proposal shall conform to the following outline: 

Executive Summary

Price Conformance Cross-Reference Table

Price Compliance Cross-Reference Table

Price Information and Instructions

L.38.4.1	Executive Summary 

The Executive Summary for the Technical/Management, Past Performance, Business, and Price volumes shall be identical. The Executive Summary in each volume shall be identical.  The purpose of the Executive Summary is to present a brief introduction and overview of the offeror’s entire proposal.  The Executive Summary shall be written so that a lay person can easily grasp the essence of the approach being proposed and the offeror’s management concept.  The Executive Summary shall not exceed seven (7) pages and shall contain no price information.

L.38.4.2	Price Conformance Cross-Reference Table

The proposal submission requirements for the Price Volume are summarized in a conformance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal.  

L.38.4.3	Price Compliance Cross-Reference Table

The RFP requirements for the Price Volume are summarized in a compliance cross-reference table in Section J.6.  This cross-reference table is provided to assist the offeror in preparing its proposal.

L.38.4.4	Price Information and Instructions

The offeror shall complete and submit Table B-2 in Excel and hard copy.  

The offeror shall identify, in their Price Volume narrative, their proposed subcontractors.  

The offeror, in accordance with FAR 15.404-3(b) (“Subcontract Pricing Considerations”), shall conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices, and include, in their Price Volume narrative, the results of these analyses.  

Section M: Evaluation Factors for Award



M.1	GENERAL

The Government intends to make a single award resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose proposal represents the best value solution after evaluation in accordance with the factors in the solicitation.  

M.2	BASIS FOR AWARD

The Government will make award to the responsible offeror whose proposal conforms to the requirements of the solicitation and is evaluated as being the most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.  For this solicitation, all evaluation factors other than price, when combined, are significantly more important than price.  Awards will not be automatically determined by numerical calculation or formula relationship between the non-price factors and price.  As non-price factors, when combined, become more equal, the evaluated cost or price rises in importance and may become the determining factor.  The Contracting Officer will determine what trade-off between the non-price factors and cost or price promises the greatest value to the Government, price and other factors considered.

The technical evaluation (Technical Approach and Competencies Factor, Management Factor, Key and Support Personnel Factor, Past Performance Factor) will be based on the technical evaluation criteria identified in Sections M.9.1 through Section M.9.5  Technical clarifications, if requested by the Government, and past performance surveys may also be used in evaluating the technical merit of an offeror’s proposal.  Price proposals will be evaluated in accordance with Section M.9.6.

The Government contemplates the award of a contract to the most responsive and responsible offeror whose proposal, conforming to the RFP, will be the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered.  

The Government will require oral presentations from.

This procurement is to be conducted in accordance with FAR 8.405-1 through FAR 8.405-3.

M.3	EVALUATION FACTORS AND METHODOLOGY

The Technical Approach and Competencies, Management Approach, and Key and Support Personnel Evaluation Factors will be evaluated using an adjectival (Outstanding, Acceptable, Marginal, Unacceptable) rating scheme.  

An “Unacceptable” rating in any factor will result in the elimination of an Offeror’s proposal from consideration for award.  

The following evaluation factors listed in descending order of importance apply to this procurement and will be used to evaluate the offer:

Technical Approach and Competencies

Management Approach

Past Performance

Key and Support Personnel

Price

The following chart indicates the major tasks and how the technical evaluation will be weightedin descending order of importance..



M.4	ELIGIBILITY FOR AWARD

Proposals shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions set out in Section L.  The Government will review proposals submitted to determine conformance with the proposal preparation instructions.  If it is determined that the proposal is substantially not in conformance with the instructions in Section L, the Government may deem that proposal to be unacceptable and it will not be evaluated further.  The proposal may be removed from consideration for contract award.

To be eligible for award, offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions, technical factors, and pricing information.  Failure to comply with all terms and conditions of the solicitation may result in the offeror being removed from award consideration, and any omission of solicitation terms and conditions must be fully explained and justified.  As such, the Government may reject any proposal that is evaluated to be unrealistic in terms of technical requirements, to include terms and conditions, and price, such that the proposal reflects an inherent lack of competence or failure to comprehend the overall requirements of the solicitation.

The determination of offeror responsibility will be made by the Contracting Officer and will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.  The Government will make determinations of responsibility in accordance with FAR 9.1 (Responsible Prospective Contractors) using information provided in the Business Proposal volume and information available from other sources.  The Government also reserves the right to determine the responsibility of prospective major subcontractors.

M.5	SOURCE SELECTION PROCESS

The Government intends to make the award without discussions on the basis of initial proposals received.  However, the Government may elect to make awards with discussions if it is determined to be in the Government’s best interest.  However, offerors are cautioned to submit their pricing proposals on the most favorable basis since the Government reserves the right to make awards without discussions in accordance with FAR Subpart 15.209 (a).

If the Government elects to make awards with discussions, it reserves the right, before requesting a final proposal revision, to: 1) limit the number of offerors in the competitive range to the greatest number of proposals that will permit an adequate competition among the technically acceptable proposals; 2) make more than one competitive range determination; 3) conduct more than one round of discussions; and 4) conduct more than one round of proposal revisions.

M.6	SOLICITATION AMENDMENTS

The Government reserves the right to amend the terms and conditions of the solicitation at any time before or after receipt of proposals.  If the Government amends the solicitation, the Government will so advise all parties receiving the solicitation (if the amendment is issued before the established time and date for receipt of proposals) or all offerors that have not been eliminated from the competition (if the amendment is issued after the established time and date for receipt of proposals).

M.7	EVALUATION SUPPORT

Offerors are hereby notified that the Government intends to use outside contractors to assist in the evaluation of proposals.  Those contractors will have access to any and all information contained in the offeror’s proposals and will be subject to appropriate conflict of interest, standards of conduct, and confidentiality restrictions. 

M.8	NON-PRICE FACTOR RATINGS

The offeror’s proposal will be evaluated with respect to the non-price factors.

For the Technical Approach and Competencies, Management Approach and Key and Support Personnel Factors, subjective technical rating shall be as follows:

Exceptional:	Exceeds specified performance or capability in a beneficial way, has a high probability of success

Acceptable:	Satisfies evaluation criteria; good probability of success; weaknesses can be readily corrected

Marginal:	Fails to satisfy the evaluation criteria; low probability of success; significant weaknesses, but correctable

Unacceptable:	Substantially deficient in addressing the mandatory requirements, i.e. fails to minimally satisfy the evaluation criteria

For the Past Performance Factor, the following adjectival ratings will be used.

Confidence:  	The offeror’s past performance record indicates the offeror can successfully satisfy our contract requirements.  Some Government intervention is expected to be required in obtaining the required support.

Unknown confidence: 	The offeror has no relevant performance record.  A review was unable to identify any relevant past performance information (see FAR 15.305).  This is a neutral rating.  It does not hinder nor help the offeror.

No confidence: 	The offeror’s past performance record provides extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully satisfy our contract requirements. Regardless of the degree of Government intervention, obtaining the required support is doubtful.



M.9	TECHNICAL EVALUATION

The technical evaluation of proposals will be based upon the technical evaluation criteria listed below in descending order of importance.

Technical Approach and Competencies Factor (see M.9.1)

Management Approach Factor (see M.9.2)

Past Performance Factor (see M.9.3)

Key and Support Personnel Factor (see M.9.4)

Price Factor (see M.9.5)



M.9.1  	Technical Approach and Competencies Factor

The offeror's technical approach shall demonstrate an understanding of the requirements and provide the techniques and procedures that will be used to satisfy the requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. 

The Government will use the adjectival ratings in Table M-2 to evaluate the Technical Approach and Competencies Factor.

M.9.1.1	Operational Support and Development

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing integrated IT and online support services, which includes, but is not limited to, a wide-spectrum of technical development, support, management and security of all systems that comprise the CMS project/program, including the integration and 24x7x365 maintenance of CMS and IT systems at the Qwest hosting facility in Sterling, Virginia. 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web template development, usability and section 508 compliance, and performance testing of services and CMS applications in order to a consistent approach to an enterprise web publishing program.  This support includes all sites under the umbrella of the CMS and includes the integration of blogs, and social medial 3rd party services and tools. 

M.9.1.2	Customer Service and Support

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices to achieve the organization’s strategic goals and enable the organization to apply lessons learned throughout the program life-cycle. 

M.9.1.3	Web Metrics and reporting System

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing Enterprise-class, multi-channel analytics implementation and management for 400+ Web and social media properties with over 35 MM page views per month across multiple domains and platforms. 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web analytics services in order to provide web log reporting capabilities to the webmasters and principals for all State Department sites as well as Embassy web sites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 

M.9.1.4	Search Support

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and configure Google Search appliances as well as the integration and development of taxonomy tools and protocols for searching capabilities for all Department of State web sites and U.S. Mission websites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 

M.9.1.5	Training

The offeror proposes a sound approach for developing, maintaining and conducting a comprehensive training program, including curriculum development and related services for the CMS Project and its customers delivered over multiple platforms including computer-based training (CBT), Adobe Connect, Internet, and hands-on workshops. 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for updating and developing training materials, user guides, and evaluations for all technology platforms in the CMS system. 

M.9.1.6	Video Hosting and Support

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing an enterprise-level online video platform and development services to publish and deliver video experiences across the web to desktops, tablets, smart phones and mobile devices that satisfies the requirements in Section C.3.6.  

The offeror proposes a sound detailed plan and schedule for its transition of the service to its proposed solution, if the offeror does not intend to use Brightcove.

M.9.1.7	Design, Usability and Information Architecture

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing design prototypes, including graphics, site navigation, information architecture and layout of content for a variety of department and mission websites.  

The offeror proposes a sound approach for advising IIP on the web design, web usability, mobile content and delivery for IIP websites, such Embassy websites, micro sites and the development of integrated branding programs for all online visual treatment – including third party social media sites (e.g., Facebook, YouTube, Twitter).  

The offeror proposes a sound approach for designing, developing and implementing web sites, mobile, smart phone applications, and tablet applications, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for the CMS Project.  

M.9.1.8	Testing and Quality Assurance

The offeror proposes a sound approach and methodology for developing and following a Test Strategy Plan and defect management approach to ensure that CMS systems meet business and technical requirements, work as expected; and can be implemented with the same characteristics.  Strategy should address test deliverables, testing approach, roles and responsibilities, communication and status reporting, risks and mitigations, test case design methodology, test methodology (top-down/bottom-up/risk based) test types (functional/system), test tools (if any) to be used, defect management approach. 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for documenting testing results, resolving all identified errors, conflicts, and bugs, and tracking/reporting the bug/defect resolution. 

M.9.1.9	Security

The offeror proposes a sound approach for developing and implementing a Systems Security Plan.  

The offeror proposes a sound approach for administering the security of all CMS systems.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for monitoring all security related requirements at the application level in accordance with Federal and DoS regulations and policies.



Table M-2  Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 1





M.9.2  		Past Performance Factor

The Government will assess the offeror’s cited experiences within the past three (3) years. 

The offeror’s Past Performance evaluation will examine how the offeror’s past and present experience/performance validates expected performance and customer satisfaction based on the information provided by the offeror’s references and other government sources.  

The Past Performance evaluation will examine the offeror’s Past Performance Contract Profiles and the offeror’s actual performance in work of similar size, scope, and complexity of efforts; and actual results achieved during performance. 

The Government may consider all information available on the offeror’s experience and past performance. This will include information that is in addition to that which is provided by the offeror (i.e., Past Performance Retrieval System). The Government reserves the right to interview the clients identified by the offeror and may interview other clients of whom the Government is aware. 

The Government may share a copy of the Past Performance Profile with the referenced customer to validate the offeror’s report. To facilitate the evaluation of Past Performance, the offeror shall ensure the accuracy of the information furnished on references (names, addresses, and phone numbers). Failure to provide accurate or complete reference information will have a negative impact on the evaluation of the offeror’s proposal and may render it unacceptable.

The Government will use the adjectival ratings in Table M-3 to evaluate the Past Performance factor.

Table M-3  	Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 2






M.9.3  	Management Approach Factor

The Government will evaluate the management approach based on its demonstrated effectiveness in similar tightly integrated, high-volume web sites and services; particularly with regard to the infusion of new technology, the ease of development and integration of new applications, the development and satisfaction of customer requirements and the ability to provide an ongoing high level of production performance while continuing development of new tools and features and ongoing customer support.

The offeror's statement of responsibilities and authorities of management personnel and description of such elements as span of control, degree of autonomy, and lines of communication with all parties involved with the contract will be evaluated for clarity, efficiency, and effectiveness.  The Government will evaluate the adequacy of the offeror's process for resolving priority conflicts.  

The Government will evaluate for merit the offeror's basis for subcontracting/teaming or advisory arrangements and the management procedures for monitoring and controlling those arrangements as identified in the proposed organizational chart.  The Offeror will be evaluated on the reasonableness and extent of the functional split of responsibilities between the prime and subcontractors.  The offeror will be evaluated on thoroughness and completeness of its plan for integrating the efforts of the prime Contract with any proposed subcontracts/teaming arrangements and/or advisory agreements.  The offeror will be evaluated on the effectiveness and efficiency of its plan for identifying and addressing any problems that arise as a result of the proposed organizational structure or poor and/or non-performance of subcontracted portions of the Contract.  The Government will also evaluate the benefits to the Government of these arrangements.

The Government will evaluate the availability of the offeror’s resources including:  staffing, corporate support, facilities and equipment.  The Government will evaluate the processes and the offeror’s ability to respond quickly and efficiently to the task orders issued under this Contract.  The Government will evaluate the offeror’s proposed processes, including management expertise and overall effectiveness, of the offeror's proposed processes to manage multiple tasks in a performance-based Contracting environment. The Government will also evaluate offeror’s availability of funding and other financial resources for this effort.  

The Government will use the adjectival ratings in Table M-4 to evaluate the Management Approach Factor.

M.9.3.1	Program/Project Management 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for applying project, program, and program management office roadmaps that clearly define objectives of projects; divide and subdivide the project scope into work packages (work breakdown structure); define specific activities that need to be performed for each work package in order to accomplish the project objective; graphically portray network diagram activities; make a time estimate for how long it will take to complete each activity; make a cost estimate for each activity; and calculate a project schedule and budget to determine whether the project can be completed within the required time, with the allotted funds, and with the available resources.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing consistent and accurate reporting of performance to the Government.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for identifying, assessing, and mitigating Program risk(s).

The offeror proposes a sound approach for managing of subcontractor(s); or third party services.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for tailoring program life-cycle standards and conducting critical milestone evaluations and stage-gate reviews.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for applying discipline to communications, configuration management, change management and other processes.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing quality assurance and other conformance support services.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing just-in-time expertise; conducting periodic assessments; and developing plans (e.g., test, interoperability, e-Government migration and implementation), requirements definitions, joint concepts, analysis of alternatives; performance measurements and technical management.

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing seamless phase-in of contractor personnel without interruption in CMS support across the serviced CMS customer based (Bureaus, missions, offices and interagency partners).

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing project management of CMS program, teams, and personnel for all web sites and projects under the umbrella of CMS program.



M.9.3.2	Transition Plan 

The offeror proposes sound actions, responsibilities, and schedules necessary to transition encumbered positions in its current state and work in process to new contract.

The offeror proposes a sound schedule of briefings identifying timeframes after the Government’s notification of authority to proceed and resources allotted, that will be required to fully transition from the current contract to the new contract.

The Government will evaluate the offeror's phase-in approach for continuity and a smooth transition with the incumbent Contractor during the transition period.  

The Government will evaluate how clearly the transition plan demonstrates an ability to assume full responsibility on the effective date of the Contract.  

The Government will evaluate how the phase-in plan specifically addresses how ongoing work will be maintained, the proposed management organization, schedule, staffing plan, orientation and training of personnel.  

If proposed, the Government will evaluate for reasonableness, any assumptions or dependencies on the incumbent Contractor.  



M.9.3.3	CMS Operations Program Management Plan 

The offeror proposes a sound technical approach, organizational resources and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance and schedule requirements throughout execution of this contract.  

The Government will evaluate the offeror’s CMS Operations Program Management Plan (PMP) for completeness, comprehension and merit of the overall program management approach.  

The PMP will be evaluated to assess the effectiveness, efficiency and adequacy of the proposed management approach including processes, organizations, standards, policies, and other key management information systems to ensure delivery of services in accordance with the requirements.  

The Government will evaluate for merit the process to be followed by the Project Manager in obtaining decisions beyond his/her authority and in resolving priority conflicts for resources/functions not under the Project Manager's direct control such as personnel, finances, and facilities.  

The Government will evaluate the effectiveness of the Project Manager’s authority as well as his/her support staff.

M.9.3.4	Administrative Support 

The offeror proposes a sound approach for providing administrative, acquisition and financial support work associated with the office and the CMS program. 



Table M-4  	Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 3




M.9.4  	Key and Support Personnel Factor

The offeror will be evaluated on its demonstrated ability to hire and maintain qualified staff; handle personnel issues, assemble high quality staff to fill immediate requirements; and provide staff with all the necessary support and oversight.  

The offeror’s designated key and support personnel will be evaluated to determine their capacity to perform the required support services.  All related personnel professional certifications (e.g., Project Management Professional (PMP) or industry equivalent) and years of experience working on program management tasks in a program management office will be evaluated. 

The offeror will also be evaluated on “how well” it integrates the roles and responsibilities of its key and support personnel based on the ability to meet Contract needs in a timely manner.  

The offeror’s proposed critical personnel will be evaluated for adequacy, reasonableness, and demonstrated understanding.  The identified critical positions, associated position descriptions, qualifications, and justification will be evaluated for appropriateness based upon the offeror’s technical approach.  The critical positions will be evaluated to determine the offeror’s level of understanding of the Contract requirements. The Government will evaluate for efficiency and effectiveness the personnel categories proposed under the Contract and how the labor skill and mix will be employed to accomplish the work. The offeror's ability to provide any necessary support to perform under the resultant Contract, respond to critical requirements, and staff new requirements from existing resources and from outside sources will be evaluated for reasonableness.  The Government will evaluate the offeror’s polices and incentives, which contribute to the proposed employee retention, morale, and productivity.

The Government will use the adjectival ratings in Table M-5 to evaluate the Key and Support Personnel Factor.

M.9.4.1	Program/Project Management Personnel

The offeror provides the resume of a person that satisfies the requirements of the Project Manager found in Section C.3.1.5.  

M.9.4.2	Operational Support and Development Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.2.4.

M.9.4.3	Customer Service and Support Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.3.4.

M.9.4.4	Web Metrics and Reporting System Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.4.4.

M.9.4.5	Search Support Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.5.3.

M.9.4.6	Training Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.10.5.

M.9.4.7	Video Hosting and Support Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.6.3.

M.9.4.8	Design, Usability, and Information Architecture Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.7.3.

M.9.4.9	Testing and Quality Assurance Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.8.4.

M.9.4.10	Security Personnel

The offeror provides up to three (3) resumes of persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.9.4.



Table M-5  	Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 4





M.9.5  	Price Factor

The principal basis for evaluating price as a factor for award under this solicitation will be an evaluation of the offerors’ respective overall proposed prices.

The Government will conduct an evaluation to determine ultimately if the overall proposed prices are fair and reasonable.  In doing so, the Government will examine the completeness, accuracy, fairness, and reasonableness of the offeror’s proposed prices.  

The Government will use one or more of the proposal analysis techniques stipulated in FAR 15.404 to conduct the price evaluation.

The Government will use the proposed prices for price evaluation purposes only (for award of the contract); it does not commit to paying these prices.  

Similarly, the Government does not commit to usage of the RFP-specified hours; they have been provided for price evaluation purposes only (for award of the contract).

The price evaluation will include price analyses that will measure the Government’s exposure to price risk.  

M.9.5.1	Price Comparisons

Proposed prices for staffing will be compared with the following benchmarks where available: 

Prices of other offerors in the competitive range.

Current CMS prices.

M.9.5.2	Additional Price Analyses

To ensure fair, reasonable, balanced, and realistic prices, the Government may perform additional price and/or cost analysis in accordance with FAR Part 15.404 for the offered requirements.  Prices that are determined to be unrealistic, unbalanced, or not fair and reasonable, will not be accepted by the Government. 

The Government will also examine offers for unbalanced pricing.  The Government may reject any offer that is materially unbalanced in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(g).









CLIN

NAME

Current CFTE

1

Program/Project Management 

1

2

Operational Support & Development

12

3

Customer Service and Support

11

4

Web Metrics and Reporting System

3

5

Search Support

2

6

Video Hosting and Support

1

7

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

1

8

Testing and Quality Assurance

2

9

Security

1

10

Training

3



CLIN

NAME

Base Period

PRICE

1

Program/Project Management 

Base Period



2

Operational Support & Development

Base Period



3

Customer Service and Support

Base Period



4

Web Metrics and Reporting System

Base Period



5

Search Support

Base Period



6

Video Hosting and Support

Base Period



7

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Base Period



8

Testing and Quality Assurance

Base Period



9

Security

Base Period



10

Training

Base Period



Totals

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Base Period

Base Period





CLIN

NAME

Option Year I 

PRICE

1001

Program/Project Management 

Option Year I



1002

Operational Support & Development

Option Year I



1003

Customer Service and Support

Option Year I



1004

Web Metrics and Reporting System

Option Year I



1005

Search Support

Option Year I



1006

Video Hosting and Support

Option Year I



1007

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Option Year I



1008

Testing and Quality Assurance

Option Year I



1009

Security

Option Year I



1010

Training

Option Year I



Totals

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Option Period I

Option Year I





CLIN

NAME

Option Year II 

PRICE

2001

Program/Project Management 

Option Year II



2002

Operational Support & Development

Option Year II



2003

Customer Service and Support

Option Year II



2004

Web Metrics and Reporting System

Option Year II



2005

Search Support

Option Year II



2006

Video Hosting and Support

Option Year II



2007

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Option Year II



2008

Testing and Quality Assurance

Option Year II



2009

Security

Option Year II



2010

Training

Option Year II



Totals

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Option Period II

Option Year II





CLIN

NAME

Option Year III 

PRICE

3001

Program/Project Management 

Option Year III



3002

Operational Support & Development

Option Year III



3003

Customer Service and Support

Option Year III



3004

Web Metrics and Reporting System

Option Year III



3005

Search Support

Option Year III



3006

Video Hosting and Support

Option Year III



3007

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Option Year III



3008

Testing and Quality Assurance

Option Year III



3009

Security

Option Year III



3010

Training

Option Year III



Totals

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Option Period III

Option Year III





CLIN

NAME

Option Year IV

PRICE

4001

Program/Project Management 

Option Year IV



4002

Operational Support & Development

Option Year IV



4003

Customer Service and Support

Option Year IV



4004

Web Metrics and Reporting System

Option Year IV



4005

Search Support

Option Year IV



4006

Video Hosting and Support

Option Year IV



4007

Design, Usability and Information Architecture

Option Year IV



4008

Testing and Quality Assurance

Option Year IV



4009

Security

Option Year IV



4010

Training

Option Year IV



Totals

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Option Period IV

Option Year IV





Total

Firm-Fixed-Price Total for Entire Contract: Base Plus Four Option Years

Overall Total





Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Earned Value management and reporting of CMS projects.

Cost Performance Index (CPI )

CPI  = 1

CPI  > 1.009

CPI  < 1

Earned Value management and reporting of CMS projects.

Schedule Performance Index (SPI )

SPI  = 1

SPI  < 1

SPI > 1



Server Name

Applications/Services

Description

# of Users (NOT concurrent)

#of Users (System)

Operating System

Alpha

WebGUI

Content Management System

500

3

Centos Linux 3

Bravo

WebGUI

Content Management System

500

3

Centos Linux 3

Charlie

Awstats, Fedora Directory Server

Weblog Analyzer, LDAP Server

500

3

Centos Linux 3

Echo

Ftp, Apache

Static Site FTP access

12

3

Centos Linux 4

Foxtrot

Apache, Rt

Trouble Ticket Software

30

8

Centos Linux 5

Golf

WebGUI, MediaWiki

Content Management System, Wiki

2000

3

RHEL 4

Hotel

WebGUI, MediaWiki

Content Management System, Wiki

2000

3

RHEL 4

India

WebGUI, Apache

Content Management System, CDN Origin

30

3

RHEL 4

Juliet

WebGUI, Apache

Content Management System, CDN Origin

30

3

RHEL 4

Kilo

WebGUI

Content Management System

500

3

RHEL 4

Lima

WebGUI

Content Management System

500

3

RHEL 4

Mike

WebGUI

Content Management System (Demo Server)

30

3

Centos Linux 4

November

Apache, Fedora Directory Server

Admin utilities, LDAP Server

30

8

Centos Linux 4

Oscar

WebGUI

Content Management System (Dev Server)

30

3

Centos Linux 4

Quebec

WebGUI

Content Management System (Demo Server)

30

3

Centos Linux 4

Romeo

Apache Tomcat, Swamp

Workflow Management Engine

30

3

Centos Linux 4

Sierra

Fedora Directory Server

LDAP Server

n/a

3

RHEL 4

Tango

Apache, Filenet

Content Management System (Legacy)

40

3

RHEL 4

Uniform

Apache, SugarCRM

Customer Relationship Management App

12

3

RHEL 4

Victor

Apache, Wordpress-mu

Blogging App

40

4

RHEL 4

Whiskey





n/a

3

RHEL 4

Xray

Apache

Content Syndication

40

3

RHEL 4

Yankee





n/a

3

RHEL 4

Hoover

Webtrends, IIS

Weblog Analyzer

1000

3

Windows 2003 Server

Eureka

Webtrends, IIS

Weblog Analyzer

1000

3

Windows 2003 Server

Oreck

Webtrends, IIS

Weblog Analyzer

1000

3

Windows 2003 Server

Dirtdevil

Webtrends, IIS

Live Logging Server

1000

3

Windows 2003 Server

Bissel

Webtrends, IIS

Live Logging Server

1000

3

Windows 2003 Server

GoogleApp1

Google Search Appliance

Search Engine

1000

n/a

Google Search Appliance

GoogleApp2

Google Search Appliance

Search Engine

1000

n/a

Google Search Appliance

GoogleApp3

Google Search Appliance

Search Engine

1000

n/a

Google Search Appliance

GoogleApp4

Google Search Appliance

Search Engine

1000

n/a

Google Search Appliance



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Implementation and integration of new design, functionality, requirements, etc.

Time lag between changes and updates of documentation.

25 to 30 calendar days

<25 calendar days

>30 calendar days

Implementation and integration of new design, functionality, requirements, etc.

Time lag between changes and updates of training material

10 to 14 calendar days

<10 calendar days

>14 calendar days

Maximizing availability of the CMS system and services worldwide.



System Availability

 System fully functional and available 99% of the time.

System fully functional and available > 99% of the time.

System fully functional and available < 99% of the time.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Must provide customer support services for more than 1,000 individuals from various cultures who are responsible for updating over 450 CMS websites worldwide; (For many, English is a second language.) on a 24 hour, 7 days a week, 365 days a year schedule. This includes all holidays.  

Average Response Time

All tickets must be assigned within 15 to 30 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Tickets are assigned in less than 15 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Tickets are assigned in more than 30 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Providing customer support via phone or email.
Tier 1: High Priority tickets mostly consisting of site updates. (Average 45 tickets per week)



Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 3 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is < 2.5 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is > 3.5 hours.

Providing customer support via phone or email.
Tier 2: Includes formatting, images, embed code, feature boxes, and deleting items from Akamai, all login or permission problems. (Average 83 tickets per week)



Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 24 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is <20 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is >25 hours.

Providing customer support via phone or email.
Tier 3: Includes creating dynamic content, navigation changes, blog assistance, form changes, and login requests. (Average 32 tickets per week)

Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 48 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is < 42 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is > 52 hours.

Providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support services and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices.

Customer satisfaction survey results – satisfaction rate

Maintain Customer satisfaction rate of 96%

Customer satisfaction rate >98%

Customer satisfaction rate < 95%

Creation of new websites within the CMS.

Number of webpages created

 1800 pages per week.

Create > 1900 pages per week.

Create < 1700 pages per week.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Respond to customer requests for profiles and reports in a timely manner.

Average Response Time

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 4 hours. 

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 2 hours.

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 6 or more hours.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Develop and implement a Quality Assurance Plan for the CMS Program.

% of urgent (reactive) changes

(# of urgent changes relative to the total # of changes in a given time period. This KPI reflects the size of the potential risk of urgent changes on the quality and performance of the change management process.)



No more than 25%

<20%

>30%

Develop and implement a Test Strategy for the CMS Program.

% of changes that cause incidents

(Number of implemented changes that have caused incidents, relative to all implemented changes within a certain time-period.)



No more than 15%

Less than 10%

More than 20%



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Establish and maintain baseline configurations and inventories of CMS information systems (including hardware, software, firmware, and documentation) throughout the system development life cycles.

% of configuration changes approved and documented prior to implementation.

95%

100%

< 95%

Conduct ongoing risk assessment and mitigation Plan for the CMS platforms and applications in compliance with the CMS Risk Management Plan.

Percentage (%) of vulnerabilities identified and remediated prior to implementation (launch.)

90%

95%

< 85%



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Monitor, evaluate and review the quality and effectiveness of training, assessment and outcomes of courses delivered.



Student satisfaction rate

(materials, presentation, knowledge of trainer)

Maintain a student satisfaction rate of 4 on a 1-5 scale.

Student satisfaction rate of 5 on a 1-5 scale.

Student satisfaction rate < 4 on a 1-5 scale.



Clause 

Title

Date 

52.242-15 

Stop-Work Order 

August 1989 

52.242-17 

Government Delay Of Work 

April 1984 

52.247-55 

F.O.B. Point For Delivery Of 

Government-Furnished  Property 

June 2003 



OBJECTIVE

DELIVERABLE TITLE

SCHEDULE

Objective 1

Status report 

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 1

Systems Development Lifecycle Documentation 

As required

Objective 1

OMB A11-300 Documentation 

As required

Objective 1

CMS Operations Program Management Plan

Within 10 working days of contract award.  Update as needed.

Objective 1

Project Management Plans

As required for development efforts

Objective 1

Work breakdown Structure and Gantt charts

As required

Objective 1

Invoices, requisitions, purchase orders, credit card payments, vouchers, and other financial documents

As required

Objective 1

Official records of obligations and expenditures

As required

Objective 2

Templates for various online platforms; including but not limited to websites, blogs, mobile, tablets and social media

As required

Objective 2

Developed sites for various online platforms; including but not limited to websites, blogs, mobile, tablets and social media

As required

Objective 2

SDLC Documentation

As required

Objective 2

All CMS code, fully documented

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for Webtrends 

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for Akamai

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for CMS Software vendors:  PlainBlack

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for CMS Software vendors: Salesforce Enterprise

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for Hosting: Quest, Brightcove, Co-location of GOOGLE search boxes

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for Search Software: Google

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for 24x7 support for the CMS secondary core infrastructure located at Quest Hosting Facilities 

As required

Objective 2

Third-party Vendor Management for 24x7 support for any other hosting facilities as required by the CMS project 

As required

Objective 3

Weekly and monthly status reports monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Weekly



Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 3

User Guides

As required

Objective 3

Process Documents

As required

Objective 3

Surveys

As required

Objective 3

Communication plans and templates

As required

Objective 4

Weekly and monthly status reports monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Weekly



Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 4

Templates, dashboards, reports as requested from the Government

As required

Objective 4

Monthly report for CMS sites

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 4

Reports to CMS customers and stakeholders upon request

As required

Objective 4

DVD archives of weblogs

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 5

Taxonomies

As required

Objective 5

Metadata strategy

As required

Objective 5

Controlled vocabularies

As required

Objective 5

Monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 5

Monthly and ad hoc reports including search statistics such as errors, most used search terms, etc.

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month.

Ad hoc reports within 1 day.

Objective 6

508 Compliant Flash Video Player

Within 30 days of contract award

Objective 6

Content management system for the video platform

Within 30 days of contract award

Objective 6

Secure delivery platform 

Within 30 days of contract award

Objective 6

Templates

As required

Objective 6

Monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 6

Monthly and ad-hoc reports detailing audience(s) and site usage.



Monthly – on the 10th day of each month
Ad-hoc as required.

Objective 7

CMS style guides 

As required

Objective 7

Templates

As required

Objective 7

Graphics

As required

Objective 7

Information architectures

As required

Objective 7

Site reviews

As required

Objective 7

Training materials for Seminars

As required

Objective 7

Monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 8

Test Strategy

Draft due with proposal. Final 10 days after contract award.

Objective 8

Test Plans

As required

Objective 8

Quality Assurance Plan

Draft due with proposal. Final 10 days after contract award.

Objective 8

Reports, as required

As required

Objective 8

Monthly status report monitoring the quality assurance, risk management, and security management applied to the tasks

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 9

Approved System Security Plan (SSP) 

Annually by June 1.

Update as required

Objective 9

Security Assessment Report (SAR)

Update as required

Objective 9

Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) 

Annually by June 1.

As required

Objective 9

Work Breakdown Structure WBS for Certification and Accreditation process

Annually by June 1.

Update as required

Objective 9

Checklists and any additional documentation required for C & A

Annually by June 1.

Update as required

Objective 9

Test Reports

As required

Objective 9

Risk Register

Update as required

Objective 9

Continuous monitoring results

Monthly by the 10th day of the month

Objective 9

Contingency plans

Annually by June 1.

Update as required

Objective 9

Configuration management plans

Annually by June 1.

Update as required

Objective 10

Training Manuals

Within 5 days of feature/product/upgrade implementation (pre-launch)

Objective 10

Training Videos

As required

Objective 10

Monthly webinar

Minimum of 1 new webinar per month

Objective 10

How-to Guides

Within 5 days of feature/product/upgrade implementation (pre-launch)

Objective 10

Training Schedule

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month. Updated as required

Objective 10

Student Satisfaction Surveys

Within 1 day of course completion

Objective 10

Reports on student satisfaction from surveys

Monthly – on the 10th day of each month

Objective 10

Student satisfaction reports for onsite workshops 

Within a week of return



Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.26

5 Past Performance Questionnaires





L.27

The outer envelope or wrapping of each offer shall be addressed as shown below:

Contractor’s Return Address 

Contracting Officer’s Address:

Contract Specialist:   

Hand Delivery:	

U .S. Department of State (SA-6)

Office of Acquisition Management

1701 N. Ft. Myer Drive

Arlington, Virginia  22209

“TO BE OPENED BY CONTRACTING OFFICER ONLY”





L.28

Block 17 of SF 33 shall be signed by an official of the Contractor’s authorized to bind the organization {See Business Volume}





L.28

Electronic media (CD-ROMs) shall be digitally signed by the official authorized to bind the responding organization





L.35

The Contractor shall submit 20 volumes in hard copy format.

5 Volume I – Technical/Management/Key Personnel

5 Volume II – Past Performance

5 Volume III – Business

5 Volume IV – Price 





L.35

The Contractor shall submit 20 CD-ROMs.

5 Volume I – Technical/Management/Key Personnel

5 Volume II – Past Performance

5 Volume III – Business

5 Volume IV – Price







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.28 A

Cover page that includes solicitation name, solicitation number, volume name, volume number, copy number, date, name(s) of responding organization(s), and revision number (if appropriate)





Table L.35-2

No more than 100 pages





L.35 1

Standard letter size 8.5 x 11 inch sheet of paper





L.35 1 b)

Do Section Tab/Separator Pages include only the Section Name/Number?





L.35 1 c)

Table of Contents





L.35 1 d)

List of Tables





L.35 1 e)

List of Figures





L.35 1 f)

Completed Technical/Management/Key Personnel Conformance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 g)

Completed Technical/Management/Key Personnel Compliance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 h)

Executive Summary





L.35

Does Executive Summary exceed 7 pages





L.35 2

If there are fold-out pages, do they exceed 42.5 x 11 inches?





L.35 3 a)

Top and bottom margins 1.5 inch on each page





L.35 3 b)

Left and right margin 1.13 inch on each page





L.35 3 c)

Header and Footer 0.5 inch on each page





L.35 4

12 point Arial font 





L.35 5

Line spacing of one-and-a-half





L.36 1.

Separate file for draft CMS Operations Program Management Plan





L.36 1/

Separate file for draft Transition Plan







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.36.1

Each CD-ROM shall be clearly marked Volume I – Technical/Management/Key Personnel with either Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 or #5 along with solicitation name, solicitation number, date, and name(s) of responding organization(s)





L.36 1.

There shall be a Technical/Management/Key Personnel conformance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1.

There shall be a Technical/Management/Key Personnel compliance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1. 

The Contractor shall provide all embedded object files in their native formats.





L.36 1.

Separate file for draft CMS Operations Program Management Plan





L.36 1/

Separate file for draft Transition Plan





L.36 1.

No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information





L.37

Contractor shall submit CD-ROMs (650 megabyte nominal capacity) that are written in compliance with the International Organization for Standardization-9660 standard for file format structure.  





L.37

Each CD-ROM’s root directory shall contain a text file named 00README.TXT that explains the volume’s directory structure, briefly describes each file’s contents, and lists the name and telephone number of the Contractor’s technical point of contact who can answer questions in the event of problems in reading the contents of the CD-ROM.





L.37.1

Viewing of the Contractor’s proposal shall not require any additional hardware or software products than the following:

PC with 1600 Megahertz Intel Pentium CPU and 256 Megabytes RAM 

48X CD-ROM drive 

17-inch (nominal) color monitor with SVGA graphics 

Microsoft Windows 2007 or later 

Lotus Notes Release 6.0 

Microsoft Office Version 2003 with current security patches installed as appropriate (including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). 





L.37.2

All word processing files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be written in Microsoft Word 2003 format with all external objects embedded (not linked).  





L.37.2

All Word documents shall be submitted with all revisions accepted by the Contractor; no revision marks shall be visible to the Government.  





L.37.3

Image files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be stored in one of the formats listed below, as appropriate: 

Bitmapped images are to be stored in either Graphics Interchange Format (87a or 89a, interlaced or non-interlaced formats) or Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) image formats. 

Vectored images are to be stored in Windows Metafile format (must be recognizable in Word 2007); however, graphics created within PowerPoint as part of a PowerPoint presentation are to be stored in PowerPoint presentation (.ppt) format. 





L.37.4

Multimedia files will not be accepted, e.g., QuickTime or Windows Media Player.





L.37.5

If files delivered on any of the CD-ROMs are compressed, the Contractor must use WinZip for Windows 2002 (version 9 or later).  





L.37.5

Single files or groups of files compressed into a single .zip file must be contained on a single CD-ROM.  A compressed single file shall not “span” across multiple CD-ROMs.  





L.37.5

File compression that is a standard characteristic of the file format (e.g., JPEG) is permitted.  However, there shall be no reliance on hardware decompression to allow a file to be viewed at its intended image size, resolution, and/or speed (e.g., requiring a hardware codec to play a video file at an acceptable frame rate).







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.28 A

Cover page that includes solicitation name, solicitation number, volume name, volume number, copy number, date, name(s) of responding organization(s), and revision number (if appropriate)





Table L.35-2

No more than 50 pages





L.35 1

Standard letter size 8.5 x 11 inch sheet of paper





L.35 1 b)

Do Section Tab/Separator Pages include only the Section Name/Number?





L.35 1 c)

Table of Contents





L.35 1 d)

List of Tables





L.35 1 e)

List of Figures





L.35 1 f)

Completed Past Performance Conformance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 g)

Completed Past Performance Compliance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 h)

Executive Summary





L.35

Does Executive Summary exceed 7 pages





L.35 2

If there are fold-out pages, do they exceed 42.5 x 11 inches?





L.35 3 a)

Top and bottom margins 1.5 inch on each page





L.35 3 b)

Left and right margin 1.13 inch on each page





L.35 3 c)

Header and Footer 0.5 inch on each page





L.35 4

12 point Arial font 





L.35 5

Line spacing of one-and-a-half







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.36.1

Each CD-ROM shall be clearly marked Volume II – Past Performance with either Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 or #5 along with solicitation name, solicitation number, date, and name(s) of responding organization(s)





L.36 2.

There shall be a Past Performance conformance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 2.

There shall be a Past Performance compliance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1. 

The Contractor shall provide all embedded object files in their native formats.





L.36 1.

No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information





L.37

Contractor shall submit CD-ROMs (650 megabyte nominal capacity) that are written in compliance with the International Organization for Standardization-9660 standard for file format structure.  





L.37

Each CD-ROM’s root directory shall contain a text file named 00README.TXT that explains the volume’s directory structure, briefly describes each file’s contents, and lists the name and telephone number of the Contractor’s technical point of contact who can answer questions in the event of problems in reading the contents of the CD-ROM.





L.37.1

Viewing of the Contractor’s proposal shall not require any additional hardware or software products than the following:

PC with 1600 Megahertz Intel Pentium CPU and 256 Megabytes RAM 

48X CD-ROM drive 

17-inch (nominal) color monitor with SVGA graphics 

Microsoft Windows 2007 or later 

Lotus Notes Release 6.0 

Microsoft Office Version 2003 with current security patches installed as appropriate (including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). 





L.37.2

All word processing files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be written in Microsoft Word 2003 format with all external objects embedded (not linked).  





L.37.2

All Word documents shall be submitted with all revisions accepted by the Contractor; no revision marks shall be visible to the Government.  





L.37.3

Image files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be stored in one of the formats listed below, as appropriate: 

Bitmapped images are to be stored in either Graphics Interchange Format (87a or 89a, interlaced or non-interlaced formats) or Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) image formats. 

Vectored images are to be stored in Windows Metafile format (must be recognizable in Word 2007); however, graphics created within PowerPoint as part of a PowerPoint presentation are to be stored in PowerPoint presentation (.ppt) format. 





L.37.4

Multimedia files will not be accepted, e.g., QuickTime or Windows Media Player.





L.37.5

If files delivered on any of the CD-ROMs are compressed, the Contractor must use WinZip for Windows 2002 (version 9 or later).  





L.37.5

Single files or groups of files compressed into a single .zip file must be contained on a single CD-ROM.  A compressed single file shall not “span” across multiple CD-ROMs.  





L.37.5

File compression that is a standard characteristic of the file format (e.g., JPEG) is permitted.  However, there shall be no reliance on hardware decompression to allow a file to be viewed at its intended image size, resolution, and/or speed (e.g., requiring a hardware codec to play a video file at an acceptable frame rate).







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.16 A

Cover page that includes solicitation name, solicitation number, volume name, volume number, copy number, date, name(s) of responding organization(s), and revision number (if appropriate)





L.35 1

Standard letter size 8.5 x 11 inch sheet of paper





L.35 1 b)

Do Section Tab/Separator Pages include only the Section Name/Number?





L.35 1 c)

Table of Contents





L.35 1 d)

List of Tables





L.35 1 e)

List of Figures





L.35 1 f)

Completed Business Conformance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 g)

Completed Business Compliance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 h)

Executive Summary





L.35

Does Executive Summary exceed 7 pages





L.26.3.3

Standard Form 33 signed and executed by the Contractor





L.35 2

If there are fold-out pages, do they exceed 42.5 x 11 inches?





L.35 3 a)

Top and bottom margins 1.5 inch on each page





L.35 3 b)

Left and right margin 1.13 inch on each page





L.35 3 c)

Header and Footer 0.5 inch on each page





L.35 4

12 point Arial font 





L.35 5

Line spacing of one-and-a-half







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.36.1

Each CD-ROM shall be clearly marked Volume III – Business with either Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 or #5 along with solicitation name, solicitation number, date, and name(s) of responding organization(s)





L.36 3.

There shall be a Business conformance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 3.

There shall be a Business compliance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1. 

The Contractor shall provide all embedded object files in their native formats.





L.36 1.

No file on this CD-ROM shall contain any price information





L.37

Contractor shall submit CD-ROMs (650 megabyte nominal capacity) that are written in compliance with the International Organization for Standardization-9660 standard for file format structure.  





L.37

Each CD-ROM’s root directory shall contain a text file named 00README.TXT that explains the volume’s directory structure, briefly describes each file’s contents, and lists the name and telephone number of the Contractor’s technical point of contact who can answer questions in the event of problems in reading the contents of the CD-ROM.





L.37.1

Viewing of the Contractor’s proposal shall not require any additional hardware or software products than the following:

PC with 1600 Megahertz Intel Pentium CPU and 256 Megabytes RAM 

48X CD-ROM drive 

17-inch (nominal) color monitor with SVGA graphics 

Microsoft Windows 2007 or later 

Lotus Notes Release 6.0 

Microsoft Office Version 2003 with current security patches installed as appropriate (including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). 





L.37.2

All word processing files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be written in Microsoft Word 2003 format with all external objects embedded (not linked).  





L.37.2

All Word documents shall be submitted with all revisions accepted by the Contractor; no revision marks shall be visible to the Government.  





L.37.3

Image files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be stored in one of the formats listed below, as appropriate: 

Bitmapped images are to be stored in either Graphics Interchange Format (87a or 89a, interlaced or non-interlaced formats) or Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) image formats. 

Vectored images are to be stored in Windows Metafile format (must be recognizable in Word 2007); however, graphics created within PowerPoint as part of a PowerPoint presentation are to be stored in PowerPoint presentation (.ppt) format. 





L.37.4

Multimedia files will not be accepted, e.g., QuickTime or Windows Media Player.





L.37.5

If files delivered on any of the CD-ROMs are compressed, the Contractor must use WinZip for Windows 2002 (version 9 or later).  





L.37.5

Single files or groups of files compressed into a single .zip file must be contained on a single CD-ROM.  A compressed single file shall not “span” across multiple CD-ROMs.  





L.37.5

File compression that is a standard characteristic of the file format (e.g., JPEG) is permitted.  However, there shall be no reliance on hardware decompression to allow a file to be viewed at its intended image size, resolution, and/or speed (e.g., requiring a hardware codec to play a video file at an acceptable frame rate).







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.28 A

Cover page that includes solicitation name, solicitation number, volume name, volume number, copy number, date, name(s) of responding organization(s), and revision number (if appropriate)





L.35 1

Standard letter size 8.5 x 11 inch sheet of paper





L.35 1 b)

Do Section Tab/Separator Pages include only the Section Name/Number?





L.35 1 c)

Table of Contents





L.35 1 d)

List of Tables





L.35 1 e)

List of Figures





L.35 1 f)

Completed Price Conformance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 g)

Completed Price Compliance Cross-Reference Table





L.35 1 h)

Executive Summary





L.35

Does Executive Summary exceed 7 pages





L.35 2

If there are fold-out pages, do they exceed 42.5 x 11 inches?





L.35 3 a)

Top and bottom margins 1.5 inch on each page





L.35 3 b)

Left and right margin 1.13 inch on each page





L.35 3 c)

Header and Footer 0.5 inch on each page





L.35 4

12 point Arial font 





L.35 5

Line spacing of one-and-a-half







Section L Requirement

Requirement

Satisfied (Yes/No)

Comments

L.36.1

Each CD-ROM shall be clearly marked Volume IV – Price with either Copy #1, #2, #3, #4 or #5 along with solicitation name, solicitation number, date, and name(s) of responding organization(s)





L.36 1.

There shall be a Price conformance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1.

There shall be a Price compliance cross-reference table as a separate file





L.36 1. 

The Contractor shall provide all embedded object files in their native formats.





L.37

Contractor shall submit CD-ROMs (650 megabyte nominal capacity) that are written in compliance with the International Organization for Standardization-9660 standard for file format structure.  





L.37

Each CD-ROM’s root directory shall contain a text file named 00README.TXT that explains the volume’s directory structure, briefly describes each file’s contents, and lists the name and telephone number of the Contractor’s technical point of contact who can answer questions in the event of problems in reading the contents of the CD-ROM.





L.37.1

Viewing of the Contractor’s proposal shall not require any additional hardware or software products than the following:

PC with 1600 Megahertz Intel Pentium CPU and 256 Megabytes RAM 

48X CD-ROM drive 

17-inch (nominal) color monitor with SVGA graphics 

Microsoft Windows 2007 or later 

Lotus Notes Release 6.0 

Microsoft Office Version 2003 with current security patches installed as appropriate (including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). 





L.37.2

All word processing files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be written in Microsoft Word 2003 format with all external objects embedded (not linked).  





L.37.2

All Word documents shall be submitted with all revisions accepted by the Contractor; no revision marks shall be visible to the Government.  





L.37.3

Image files provided on the CD-ROMs shall be stored in one of the formats listed below, as appropriate: 

Bitmapped images are to be stored in either Graphics Interchange Format (87a or 89a, interlaced or non-interlaced formats) or Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) image formats. 

Vectored images are to be stored in Windows Metafile format (must be recognizable in Word 2007); however, graphics created within PowerPoint as part of a PowerPoint presentation are to be stored in PowerPoint presentation (.ppt) format. 





L.37.4

Multimedia files will not be accepted, e.g., QuickTime or Windows Media Player.





L.37.5

If files delivered on any of the CD-ROMs are compressed, the Contractor must use WinZip for Windows 2002 (version 9 or later).  





L.37.5

Single files or groups of files compressed into a single .zip file must be contained on a single CD-ROM.  A compressed single file shall not “span” across multiple CD-ROMs.  





L.37.5

File compression that is a standard characteristic of the file format (e.g., JPEG) is permitted.  However, there shall be no reliance on hardware decompression to allow a file to be viewed at its intended image size, resolution, and/or speed (e.g., requiring a hardware codec to play a video file at an acceptable frame rate).







RFP Reference

Requirement

Comply (Yes/No)

Proposal Reference

L.38.1.4

Describe your approach for technology innovation and infusion over the life of the contract; particularly with regard to how the offeror stays abreast of new technology, pilots and implements innovative technology as part of base operations (i.e., without requiring additional contract tasks/funding) and uses it to drive the Government’s cost down over the life of the contract.





L.38.1.4.1

Provide your approach for providing integrated IT and online support services, which includes, but is not limited to, a wide-spectrum of technical development, support, management and security of all systems that comprise the CMS project/program, including the integration and 24x7x365 maintenance of CMS and IT systems at the Qwest hosting facility in Sterling, Virginia. 





L.38.1.4.1

Provide your approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web template development, usability and section 508 compliance, and performance testing of services and CMS applications in order to a consistent approach to an enterprise web publishing program.  This support includes all sites under the umbrella of the CMS and includes the integration of blogs, and social medial 3rd party services and tools. 





L.38.1.4.2

Provide your approach for providing processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices to achieve the organization’s strategic goals and enable the organization to apply lessons learned throughout the program life-cycle. 





L.38.1.4.3

Provide your approach for providing Enterprise-class, multi-channel analytics implementation and management for 400+ Web and social media properties with over 35 MM page views per month across multiple domains and platforms. 





L.38.1.4.3

Provide your approach for providing processes, technical staff and tools that support, evaluate, develop, implement, and manage web analytics services in order to provide web log reporting capabilities to the webmasters and principals for all State Department sites as well as Embassy web sites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 





L.38.1.4.4

Provide your approach for providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and configure Google Search appliances as well as the integration and development of taxonomy tools and protocols for searching capabilities for all Department of State web sites and U.S. Mission websites hosted by the Content Management System Project. 





L.38.1.4.5

Provide your approach for developing, maintaining and conducting a comprehensive training program, including curriculum development and related services for the CMS Project and its customers delivered over multiple platforms including computer-based training (CBT), Adobe Connect, Internet, and hands-on workshops. 





L.38.1.4.5

Provide your approach for updating and developing training materials, user guides, and evaluations for all technology platforms in the CMS system. 





L.38.1.4.6

Provide your approach for providing an enterprise-level online video platform and development services to publish and deliver video experiences across the web to desktops, tablets, smart phones and mobile devices that satisfies the requirements in Section C.3.6.  





L.38.1.4.6

Describe your approach for providing development staff and processes to develop and support the video platform and the ability to create customized code to meet accessibility and usability requirements for video download, play and access for public audiences.





L.38.1.4.7

Provide your approach for providing design prototypes, including graphics, site navigation, information architecture and layout of content for a variety of department and mission websites.  





L.38.1.4.7

Provide your approach for advising IIP on the web design, web usability, mobile content and delivery for IIP websites, such Embassy websites, micro sites and the development of integrated branding programs for all online visual treatment – including third party social media sites (e.g., Facebook, YouTube, Twitter).  





L.38.1.4.7

Provide your approach for designing, developing and implementing web sites, mobile, smart phone applications, and tablet applications, including graphic design, site navigation, and layout of content for the CMS Project.  





L.38.1.4.8

Provide your approach and methodology for developing and following a Test Strategy Plan and defect management approach to ensure that CMS systems meet business and technical requirements, work as expected; and can be implemented with the same characteristics.  Strategy should address test deliverables, testing approach, roles and responsibilities, communication and status reporting, risks and mitigations, test case design methodology, test methodology (top-down/bottom-up/risk based) test types (functional/system), test tools (if any) to be used, defect management approach. 





L.38.1.4.8

Provide your approach for documenting testing results, resolving all identified errors, conflicts, and bugs, and tracking/reporting the bug/defect resolution. 





L.38.1.4.9

Provide your approach for developing and implementing a Systems Security Plan.  





L.38.1.4.1

Provide your approach for developing and maintaining a Disaster Recovery Plan that enables IIP to quickly resume web publishing while minimizing the amount of loss. 





L.38.1.4.9

Provide your approach for administering the security of all CMS systems.





L.38.1.4.9

Provide your approach for monitoring all security related requirements at the application level in accordance with Federal and DoS regulations and policies.





L.38.1.5

Provide a clear and complete description of your management approach, methodology, and/or techniques to be applied in achieving the objectives described in Section C.





L.38.1.5

Provide a statement of responsibilities and authorities of management personnel and description of such elements as span of control, degree of autonomy, and lines of communication with all parties involved with the contract. 





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing a project management framework and implementing processes to support the CMS program.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing an advanced set of Project Management, Program Management, and Program Management Office services for Information Technology (IT) and other specialized support under a performance-based arrangement, which will maximize the ability of the Department to perform its mission at a lower total cost and meet budget, schedule, and quality goals; and provide project management to ensure the continued operation and development of the CMS project and its core infrastructure.  





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for applying project, program, and program management office roadmaps that clearly define objectives of projects; divide and subdivide the project scope into work packages (work breakdown structure); define specific activities that need to be performed for each work package in order to accomplish the project objective; graphically portray network diagram activities; make a time estimate for how long it will take to complete each activity; make a cost estimate for each activity; and calculate a project schedule and budget to determine whether the project can be completed within the required time, with the allotted funds, and with the available resources.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing consistent and accurate reporting of performance to the Government.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for identifying, assessing, and mitigating Program risk(s).





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for managing subcontractor(s) or third party services.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for tailoring program life-cycle standards and conducting critical milestone evaluations and stage-gate reviews.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for applying discipline to communications, configuration management, change management and other processes.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing quality assurance and other conformance support services.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing just-in-time expertise; conducting periodic assessments; and developing plans (e.g., test, interoperability, e-Government migration and implementation), requirements definitions, joint concepts, analysis of alternatives; performance measurements and technical management;.





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing seamless phase-in of contractor personnel without interruption in CMS support across the serviced CMS customer based (Bureaus, missions, offices and interagency partners).





L.38.1.5.1

Describe your approach for providing project management of CMS program, teams, and personnel for all web sites and projects under the umbrella of CMS program.





L.38.1.5.2

 Describe your actions, responsibilities, and schedules necessary to transition encumbered positions in its current state and work in process to new contract.





L.38.1.5.2

 Describe your schedule of briefings identifying timeframes after the Government’s notification of authority to proceed and resources allotted, that will be required to fully transition from the current contract to the new contract.





L.38.1.5.2

Describe your phase-in approach and indicate required activities by the incumbent Contractor during the transition period.  If proposed, the Government will evaluate for reasonableness, any assumptions or dependencies on the incumbent Contractor.  





L.38.1.5.2

Describe your approach to assume full responsibility on the effective date of the Contract.  





L.38.1.5.2

Describe your approach for how ongoing work will be maintained, the proposed management organization, schedule, staffing plan, orientation and training of personnel.  





L.38.1.5.3

Draft CMS Operations Program Management Plan that includes the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls to be employed to meet the cost, performance and schedule requirements throughout execution of this contract.  





L.38.1.5.3

Describe your management approach including processes, organizations, standards, policies, and other key management information systems to ensure delivery of services in accordance with the requirements.  





L.38.1.5.3

Describe the process to be followed by the Project Manager in obtaining decisions beyond his/her authority and in resolving priority conflicts for resources/functions not under the Project Manager's direct control such as personnel, finances, and facilities.  





L.38.1.5.3

Describe the effectiveness of the Project Manager’s authority as well as his/her support staff.





L.38.1.5.4

Describe your approach for providing administrative, acquisition and financial support work associated with the office and the CMS program. 





L.36.1.6.1

Provide the resume of the person that satisfies the requirements of the Project Manager found in Section C.3.1.5.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resume.





L.36.1.6.2

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.2.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.3

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.3.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.4

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.4.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.5

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.5.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.6

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.10.5.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.7

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.6.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.8

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.7.3.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.9

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.8.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.





L.36.1.6.10

Provide up to three (3) resumes of the persons that satisfy the requirements found in Section C.3.9.4.  Use the template found in Section J.10 for the resumes.







RFP Reference

Requirement

Comply (Yes/No)

Proposal Reference

L.26

For the first of 5 Past Performance Questionnaires, did the organization provide the following:

Complete Section I – Contract Identification

Complete Section II – Customer Agency Identification

Complete Section III – Contractor Evaluation





L.26

For the second of 5 Past Performance Questionnaires, did the organization provide the following:

Complete Section I – Contract Identification

Complete Section II – Customer Agency Identification

Complete Section III – Contractor Evaluation





L.26

For the third of 5 Past Performance Questionnaires, did the organization provide the following:

Complete Section I – Contract Identification

Complete Section II – Customer Agency Identification

Complete Section III – Contractor Evaluation





L.26

For the fourth of 5 Past Performance Questionnaires, did the organization provide the following:

Complete Section I – Contract Identification

Complete Section II – Customer Agency Identification

Complete Section III – Contractor Evaluation





L.26

For the fifth of 5 Past Performance Questionnaires, did the organization provide the following:

Complete Section I – Contract Identification

Complete Section II – Customer Agency Identification

Complete Section III – Contractor Evaluation





L.38.2.4

The Contractor shall provide 3 Past Performance Contract Profiles documenting the Contractor’s performance on similar contracts – similar to the size, complexity, and scope of services of this procurement





L.38.2.4

The Contractor shall submit an electronic copy of the Past Performance Questionnaire Part 1 for each of the three Past Performance Contract Profiles submitted.







RFP Reference

Requirement

Comply (Yes/No)

Proposal Reference

G.2 (b)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Contractor Remittance Address) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





G.3 (d)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Contractor Remittance Address) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





H.2 (a)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Key Personnel – Program Manager) required in this section.  





H.10 (a)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Certificate of Insurance) required in this section.  





K.2 52.203-2 (b) (2) (i)

The Contractor shall provide the information (person(s) in the Contractor’s organization responsible for determining the prices offered in this proposal) required in this section.  





K.2 52.204-3 (d) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (Taxpayer Identification Number) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.204-3 (e)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Type of Organization) required in this section





K.2 52.204-3 (f)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Name and TIN of common parent) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.204-8 (b) (2)

The Contractor shall provide the information (representations and certifications) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.209-5 (a) (1) (i)

The Contractor shall provide the information (certification regarding responsibility matters) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.209-5 (a) (1) (ii)

The Contractor shall provide the information (contracts terminated by default) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.215-6 (a) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (place of performance) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.215-6 (b) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (place of performance and name and address of owner) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.219-18

The Contractor shall provide the information 8(a) required in this section.  





K.2 52.222-22 (b) (6) (ii)

The Contractor shall provide the information (previous contracts and compliance reports) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.223-13 (b) (2) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (certification of toxic chemical release reporting) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.227-15 (b) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (representation of limited rights data and restricted computer software) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.230-1    I  (b) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (disclosure statement) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.230-1   I  (c) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (disclosure statement) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.230-1   II 

The Contractor shall provide the information (cost accounting standards) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





K.2 52.230-1   III 

The Contractor shall provide the information (additional cost accounting standards) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.1 52.204-6 (a)

The Contractor shall provide the information (DUNS or DUNS+4 number) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.1 52.214-34 

Contractor’s response shall be in English.





L.1 52.214-35 

Contractor’s response shall be in terms of US dollars.





L.3 52.215-22 (c) (1) 

The Contractor shall provide the information (passed through charges information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.3 52.215-22 (c) (2) (i)

The Contractor shall provide the information (indirect costs and profit/fee information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.3 52.215-22 (c) (2) (ii)

The Contractor shall provide the information (added value information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.3 52.215-22 (c) (3) (i)

The Contractor shall provide the information (indirect costs and profit/fee information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.3 52.215-22 (c) (3) (ii)

The Contractor shall provide the information (added value information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.6

The Contractor shall provide the information (exceptions and/or deviations information) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.9 652.219-70 (a)

The Contractor shall provide the information (Small Women-Owned, HUBZone Small, and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Enterprise Subcontracting Plan) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.13 (d)

The Contractor shall provide the information (employment agreement(s) if not an employee) required in this section.  If the information requested in this section is not applicable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall indicate ‘Not Applicable’.





L.16

Block 17 of SF33 signed by an official authorized to bind the organization.





L.26.3.4

Therefore, the form must be executed by a representative of the Contractor who is authorized to commit the Contractor to contractual obligations.





L.26.3.4

The Contractor shall sign 1449, Block 30a and b, and fill in all blocks of Section K as required.





L.26.3.5

Contractor shall use the Government electronic systems for the submission of the Representations and Certifications as explained in Section K.2, 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications.





L.26.3.6 1.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal a statement of financial condition of the Contractor.  





L.26.3.6 2.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration of prior satisfactory performance.





L.26.3.6 3.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration of adequate financial resources or the ability to obtain such resources prior to award in order to successfully perform the contract.





L.26.3.6 4.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration of a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics. 





L.26.3.6 5.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration of the necessary organization, experience, operational controls, and technical skills, or the ability to obtain them prior to award.  





L.26.3.6 6.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration of the necessary accounting controls or the ability to obtain them prior to award 





L.26.3.6 7.

The Contractor shall include the following information in this section of its Business Proposal demonstration that the Contractor is otherwise qualified and eligible to receive an award under applicable laws and regulations





L.26.3.6.8

Contractor shall indicate if they have a Government-determined adequate estimating system.  If the Contractor has such a system, it shall submit evidence to support the adequacy determination.  If the Contractor does not have such a system, it shall describe its estimating system and established estimating policies, practices, and procedures.





L.26.3.6.9

Contractor shall indicate if they have a Government-determined adequate billing system.  If the Contractor has such a system, it shall submit evidence to support the adequacy determination.  If the Contractor does not have such a system, it shall describe its billing system and established billing policies, practices, and procedures.





L.26.3.6.10

Contractor shall indicate if they have a Government-approved purchasing system.  If the Contractor has such a system, it shall submit evidence to support the approval.  If the Contractor does not have such a system, the Contractor shall submit the name and contact information of the Contractor’s Government cognizant Federal agency official.  The cognizant Federal agency normally will be the agency with which the Contractor has the largest dollar amount of negotiated contracts, including options.





L.26.3.6.11

Contractor shall include in their quote or offer:

(1)  Whether the Contractor’s property management system that will be used on this contract to track government-furnished property and/or contractor-acquired property has been determined to be adequate by a federal property manager.

(2)  The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of both the:

(i) Cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) responsible for review and the determination of adequacy of the contractor’s property system; and

(ii) The cognizant contractor government property manager.





L.26.3.6.12

Does the Contractor have a cost accounting system that provides for:

* Proper segregation of direct costs from indirect costs

* Identification and accumulation of direct costs by contract

* A logical and consistent method for the allocation of indirect costs to intermediate and final cost objectives (A contract is a final cost objective.)

* Accumulation of costs under general ledger control

* A timekeeping system that identifies employees’ labor by intermediate or final cost objectives

* A labor distribution system that charges direct and indirect labor to the appropriate cost objectives

* Interim (at least monthly) determination of costs charged to a contract through routine posting to books of account

* Exclusion from costs charged to Government contracts of amounts that are not allowable pursuant to FAR Part 31 or other contract provisions

* Identification of costs by contract line item and by units (as if each line item or unit was a separate contract) if required by the proposed contract

* Segregation of preproduction costs from production costs





L.26.3.6.13

Does the Contractor’s cost accounting system provide financial information required by contract clauses concerning limitation of costs (FAR 52.232-20 and 52.232-21) or limitation on payments (FAR 52.216-16)?





L.26.3.6.14

Does the Contractor’s cost accounting system provide financial information required to support requests for progress payments?





L.26.3.6.15

Is the Contractor’s cost accounting system designed, and are the records maintained in such a manner that adequate, reliable data are developed for use in pricing follow-on acquisitions?





L.26.3.6.16

Is the Contractor’s cost accounting system currently in full operation?

If the Contractor responds affirmatively to the above questions, the Contractor shall submit any evidence (e.g. Defense Contract Audit Agency audit report) to assist the Contracting Officer in his determination of cost accounting system adequacy. 

If a Government agency or qualified external independent accounting firm has determined a Contractor’s cost accounting system to be inadequate or inadequate in part, the Contractor shall submit its corrective action plan, including identifying past and future completion dates and current stage of the plan.

If a Government agency or qualified external independent accounting firm has not reviewed the Contractor’s cost accounting system and the Contractor is considered for award of the contract, the Contracting Officer intends to request (at Government expense) a pre-award accounting system survey.

The Contractor shall submit the name and full contact information of its cognizant Defense Contract Audit Agency office.





L.26.3.7

If two or more parties have formed a partnership or joint venture (see FAR Subpart 9.6) for the purposes of submitting a proposal under this solicitation and, if selected, would perform the contract as a single entity, they must submit the Corporate Charter, By-Laws, or Joint Venture or Partnership Agreement.





L.26.3.7

In addition, the teaming arrangements must be identified, company relationships must be fully disclosed and respective responsibilities and method of work must be expressly stipulated.





L.26.3.7

The joint venture or partnership agreement must include a full discussion of the relationship between the organizations, including identification of the organization, which will have responsibility for negotiation of the resultant contract and task orders, which organization will have accounting responsibility, how work will be allocated, and profit or fee, if any, shared.





L.26.3.7

In addition, the principals to the joint venture or partnership agreement must agree to be jointly and severally liable for the acts or omissions relating to the contract.  Written evidence of such agreement is required with the proposal.







RFP  Reference

Requirement

Comply  (Yes/No)

Proposal Reference

B.6

The offeror shall provide its firm fixed prices for each of the potential five years for each of the ten CLINs provided with this solicitation, and option years.  The CLIN structure is provided in Table B-2.







A. Employment:



Company Name & Position Held 





Dates of Employment: From-To 





Duration of Employment: Years/Months 



Date: (MMDDYYYY) 



Date: (MMDDYYYY) 



Date: (MMDDYYYY) 

Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role



Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role



Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role



Company Name & Position Held



Dates of Employment: From-To 

Duration of Employment: Years/Months 

Date: (MMDDYYYY) 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role





Date: (MMDDYYYY) 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role





Date: (MMDDYYYY) 

Bullet points describing position, responsibilities, and role





Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 



Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 



Brief description supporting labor category applying for: 





Term

Definition

A

Bureau of Administration

ACO

Administrative Contracting Officer

AkMonitor

AkMonitor is a custom developed web service for monitoring new uploads to the Akamai network to monitor whether newly published content is served in a timely manner.

Apache

Apache HTTP Server commonly referred to simply as Apache, is an open source HTTP/web server.

API

Application programming interface

AQM

Office of Acquisition Management

Awstats

AWStats is an open source Web analytics reporting tool, suitable for analyzing data from Internet services such as web, streaming media, mail and FTP servers.

Brightcove

Brightcove is a company that provides online video publishing services.

C

C is a general-purpose, block structured, ,  computer .

CAS

Cost Accounting Standards

CCR

Central Contractor Registration

CDN

Content delivery network (CDN), a system of computers on the Internet that deliver content transparently to end users.

CD-ROMs

Compact Disk Read Only Memory’s

CLIN

Contract Line Item Number

CMS

Content Management System (CMS) is software that is used to create and manage the content for a Web site. 

CO

Contracting Officer

COCO

Corporate owned Corporate operated.

COLO

A co-location center is a type of data center where multiple customers locate network, server and storage gear and interconnect to a variety of telecommunications and other network service provider(s) with a minimum of cost and complexity.

CONUS

Continental United States

COR

Contracting Officer's Representative

COTS

Commercial Off the Shelf

DoS

U.S. Department of State

DOSAR

Department of State Acquisition Regulation

DPM

Deputy Program Manager

DS

Department of State Bureau of Diplomatic Security

DSS

Defense Security Service

DSSR

Department of State Standardize Regulations

DUNS

Data Universal Numbering System

DUNS

Dun and Brad Street Universal Number System

EFT

Electronic Funds Transfer

EPCRA

Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986

FAM

Foreign Affairs Manual

FAR

Federal Acquisition Regulations

FEA

Federal Enterprise Architecture

Feed2JS

Feed2JS is a service that allows users to submit an RSS Feed URL to generate a cut and paste piece of JavaScript that can be embedded into any web page.

FISMA

The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) is a United States federal law enacted in 2002 as Title III of the E-Government Act of 2002 (Pub.L. 107-347, 116 Stat. 2899).

FOIA

Freedom of Information Act

FSS

Federal Supply Schedule

FTP

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a network protocol used to transfer data from one computer to another through a network, such as over the Internet.

FTR

Federal Travel Regulations

G&A

General and Administrative

Gallery2

Gallery2 is an open source web photo management application.

GAO

General Accountability Office

GFP

Government Furnished Property

GoogleApp1

Google Search Appliance number 1

GoogleApp2

Google Search Appliance number 2

GoogleApp3

Google Search Appliance number 3

GoogleApp4

Google Search Appliance number 4

GSA

General Services Administration

HTML

Hypertext Markup Language is the predominant markup language for web pages.

IDIQ

Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity

iipAkExpire

iipAkExpire is a custom developed web service for instructing the Akamai network to expire old versions of newly published content.

ImageMagick

ImageMagick is a  for  and display, supporting close to 100 image formats. It is mainly used to perform various transformation and conversion operations on images. 

IRM

Information Resources Management

IRS

Internal Revenue Service

ISSO

Information System Security Officer

IT

Information Technology

IT/Comm

Information Technology and Communications

Java

Java is a  originally developed by  and released in 1995 as a core component of Sun's .

JPEG

Joint Photographic Experts Group

Jpg

JPEG is a graphics file type/extension (glossy compressed 24 bit color image storage format developed by the Joint Photographic Experts Group)

Linux

Linux is a  computer .

Mbps

A megabit per second (abbreviated as Mbit/s, Mbps, or mbps) is a  of  equal to 1,000,000 bits per second.

MOBIS

Mission Oriented Business Integrated Services

MPIN

Marketing Partner Identification Number

MyCMS

MyCMS is a custom developed web portal site for the Bureau of International Information Programs.

MySQL

MySQL is a ,    (DBMS).

NAICS

North American Industry Classification System

.NET

Microsoft .NET Framework is a software component that is a part of several Microsoft Windows operating systems.

NISPOM

National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual

NIST

National Institute of Standards and Technology

OMB

Office of Management and Budget

OPSEC

Operational Security

ORCA

Online Representations and Certifications Application

PDF

The Portable Document Format (PDF) is the  created by  in 1993 for document exchange.

PERL

Practical Extraction and Reporting Language. (PERL) is a computer   for writing  scripts and the premier scripting (or interpreted) language of the .

PHP

(PHP Hypertext Preprocessor) A scripting language used to create dynamic Web pages.

PIX

Picture Exchange Format.

PM

Program Manager

PMI

Project Management Institute

Png

, a bitmapped image format that employs lossless data compression.

PPA

Pollution Prevention Act of 1990

PPIRS

Past Performance Information Retrieval System

Ppt

, a   intended to construct , files have the extension .ppt .

PRB

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

PWS

Performance Work Statement

QASP

Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

QCP

Quality Control Plan

RFP

Request for Proposals

RFQ

Request for Quote

RT

Request Tracker (RT), commonly abbreviated to RT, is a ticket-tracking system written in Perl used to coordinate tasks and manage requests of users.

Salesforce

Salesforce.com is an on-demand suite of applications and platform technology to run a customer relations management, content management and reporting systems. 

SAP

SAP stands for Single Article Publishing and is a custom developed publication platform.

SAR

Specifically Authorized Representative

SAS

Software as a Service (SAS).

SAS 70

Statement of Auditing Standards No. 70) An AICPA standard for auditing service organizations. Internationally recognized, it enables an independent auditor to review a service provider's controls for safeguarding its customer's data.

SB

Small Business

SBA

Small Business Administration

SDK

Software development kit

SearchSubmit

SearchSubmit is a custom developed web service for submitting newly published content to our internally hosted search engines.

SF

Standard Form

SIC

Standard Industrial Classification

SIM

System Integrity Monitor Microsoft .NET Framework is a software component that is a part of several Microsoft Windows operating systems.

SOW

Statement of Work

SQL

Structured Query Language (SQL) is a  designed for the retrieval and management of  in , database schema creation and modification, and database object access control management.

SSA

Source Selection Authority

SSL

, a communications protocol, predecessor to .

SugarCRM

SugarCRM is a  (CRM) solution vendor.

SWAMP

SWAMP Workflow Administration and Management Platform (SWAMP) is a workflow processing platform. 

TB

A terabit is a unit of information or computer storage, abbreviated Tbit (or Tb).

TBD

To Be Determined

TIN

Taxpayer Identification Number

Type 2 SAS 70

Type 2 SAS 70 audits provide independent third party verification by a licensed CAP firm.

UN

United Nations

USG

U.S. Government

USGBN

USG backbone network

usvpp.gov

Domain name for Department of State Virtual Presence Post websites.

WebGUI

WebGUI is an   written in  and released under the .

WebTrends

WebTrends is a  tool which collects and presents information about user behavior on a web site.

WordPress-MU

WordPress Multi User (MU) is a  written in  and backed by a  database.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Earned Value management and reporting of CMS projects.

Cost Performance Index (CPI )

CPI  = 1

CPI  > 1.009

CPI  < 1

Earned Value management and reporting of CMS projects.

Schedule Performance Index (SPI )

SPI  = 1

SPI  < 1

SPI > 1



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Implementation and integration of new design, functionality, requirements, etc.

Time lag between changes and updates of documentation.

25 to 30 calendar days

<25 calendar days

>30 calendar days

Implementation and integration of new design, functionality, requirements, etc.

Time lag between changes and updates of training material

10 to 14 calendar days

<10 calendar days

>14 calendar days

Maximizing availability of the CMS system and services worldwide.

System Availability

 System fully functional and available 99% of the time.

System fully functional and available > 99% of the time.

System fully functional and available < 99% of the time.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Must provide customer support services for more than 1,000 individuals from various cultures who are responsible for updating over 450 CMS websites worldwide. (For many, English is a second language.) on a 24 hour, 7 days a week, 365 days a year schedule. This includes all holidays.  

Average Response Time

All tickets must be assigned within 15 to 30 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Tickets are assigned in less than 15 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Tickets are assigned in more than 30 minutes of receipt in the Queue.



Providing customer support via phone or email.  Tier 1: High Priority tickets mostly consisting of site updates. (Average 45 tickets per week)

Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 3 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is < 2.5 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is > 3.5 hours.

Providing customer support via phone or email.  Tier 2: Includes formatting, images, embed code, feature boxes, and deleting items from Akamai, all login or permission problems. (Average 83 tickets per week)

Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 24 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is <20 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is >25 hours.

Providing customer support via phone or email.  Tier 3: Includes creating dynamic content, navigation changes, blog assistance, form changes, and login requests. (Average 32 tickets per week)

Ticket Resolution  Time

These tickets are to be resolved within 48 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is < 42 hours.

Average time to resolve tickets is > 52 hours.

Providing documentation, processes, support staff and professional services to administer and manage CMS customer support services and CMS website migrations on a 24x7x365 basis using best practices.

Customer satisfaction survey results – satisfaction rate

Maintain Customer satisfaction rate of 96%

Customer satisfaction rate >98%

Customer satisfaction rate < 95%

Creation of new websites within the CMS.

Number of webpages created

 1800 pages per week.

Create > 1900 pages per week.

Create < 1700 pages per week.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Respond to customer requests for profiles and reports in a timely manner.

Average Response Time

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 4 hours. 

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 2 hours.

Acknowledge and schedule request with customer within 6 or more hours.



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Develop and implement a Quality Assurance Plan for the CMS Program.

% of urgent (reactive) changes

(# of urgent changes relative to the total # of changes in a given time period. This KPI reflects the size of the potential risk of urgent changes on the quality and performance of the change management process.)

No more than 25%

<20%

>30%

Develop and implement a Test Strategy for the CMS Program.

% of changes that cause incidents

(Number of implemented changes that have caused incidents, relative to all implemented changes within a certain time-period.)

No more than 15%

Less than 10%

More than 20%



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Establish and maintain baseline configurations and inventories of CMS information systems (including hardware, software, firmware, and documentation) throughout the system development life cycles.

% of configuration changes approved and documented prior to implementation.

95%

100%

< 95%

Conduct ongoing risk assessment and mitigation Plan for the CMS platforms and applications in compliance with the CMS Risk Management Plan.

Percentage (%) of vulnerabilities identified and remediated prior to implementation (launch.)

90%

95%

< 85%



Performance  Requirement

Performance Indicator

Required Performance Measurements for Fully Successful

Required Performance Measurements for Incentive

Required Performance Measurements for Penalty

Monitor, evaluate and review the quality and effectiveness of training, assessment and outcomes of courses delivered.

Student satisfaction rate (materials, presentation, knowledge of trainer)

Maintain a student satisfaction rate of 4 on a 1-5 scale.

Student satisfaction rate of 5 on a 1-5 scale.

Student satisfaction rate < 4 on a 1-5 scale.



Past Performance Profile – Contract Number 

Past Performance Profile – Contract Number 

Offeror:  

Offeror:  

Performed as Prime or Subcontractor:

Performed as Prime or Subcontractor:

Federal Agency Supported:

Federal Agency Supported:

Points of Contact

Points of Contact

Contractual:

Name:

Organization: 

Address:

Telephone Number:

FAX Number:

Email Address:

COR/COTR:

Name:

Organization:

Address:

Telephone Number:

FAX Number:

Email Address:

Project Location(s) [State or Country]:

Project Location(s) [State or Country]:

Number of Full-Time Project Personnel:

Number of Full-Time Project Personnel:

Actual Annual Contract Dollars (not Contract Ceiling Value):

Original Annual Contract Value:

Current Annual Contract Value:

Explanation of Variance if applicable:

Actual Annual Contract Dollars (not Contract Ceiling Value):

Original Annual Contract Value:

Current Annual Contract Value:

Explanation of Variance if applicable:

Period of Performance:

Period of Performance:

Type of Award (Competitive, Sole-Source, Performance Based, etc):

Type of Award (Competitive, Sole-Source, Performance Based, etc):

Contract Type (Firm Fixed Price, Time and Materials, Cost Plus, etc.):

Contract Type (Firm Fixed Price, Time and Materials, Cost Plus, etc.):

Descriptions of Work Performed, including Scope and Complexity of the Effort:











Descriptions of Work Performed, including Scope and Complexity of the Effort:











Technical, Cost or Schedule Problems Encountered and Resolution:









Technical, Cost or Schedule Problems Encountered and Resolution:









Innovative Solution Applied, Cost-Savings Realized or Recognition Received:









Innovative Solution Applied, Cost-Savings Realized or Recognition Received:









Actual Results Achieved against Performance Standards:

  





Actual Results Achieved against Performance Standards:

  







Volume Number

Proposal Volume

1

Technical/Management/Key Personnel

2

Past Performance

3

Business

4

Price



Volume Number

Volume Name

Maximum Pages

1

Technical/Management/Key Personnel

100 (Exclusive of resumes)

2

Past Performance

50

3

Business

Unlimited

4

Price

Unlimited



Evaluation Factor 1 – Technical Approach and Competencies

Evaluation Factor 1 – Technical Approach and Competencies

Rating

Description

Outstanding

Exceeds performance or capability requirements in a way that will significantly benefit the Government.

Has no deficiencies or significant weaknesses.  

Based on the proposed processes and tools of the offeror, essentially no doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Acceptable

Meets performance or capability requirements specified in the Statement of Work.

Has few or no strengths that will benefit the Government.

Has few weaknesses and no deficiencies.  

Based on the proposed processes and tools of the offeror, little doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Marginal

Does not meet some performance or capability requirements.

Has one or more major weakness or deficiency which is/are correctable without major changes to the proposal.  

Based on the proposed processes and tools of the offeror, some doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Unacceptable

Fails to meet performance or capability requirements.

Has major weaknesses or deficiencies which cannot be corrected without major changes to the proposal.  

Based on the proposed processes and tools of the offeror, extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.



Evaluation Factor 2:  Past Performance

Evaluation Factor 2:  Past Performance

Rating

Description

Outstanding

Offeror provides three (3) Past Performance Contract Profiles that are directly relevant to the required work and clearly cover the majority of the required work.  

Customers provide three (3) Past Performance Questionnaires that clearly document “Exceptional” performance. 

Based on the offeror’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, essentially no doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Acceptable

Offeror provides three (3) Past Performance Contract Profiles that are directly relevant to the required work and clearly cover the majority of the required work.  

Customers provide three (3) Past Performance Questionnaires that clearly document “Acceptable” performance.  

Based on the offeror’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, little doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Marginal

Does not meet the criteria for acceptable. 

Based on the offeror’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, some doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Unacceptable

One or more examples where client past performance evaluations were rated less than “Marginal”.  

Based on the offeror’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, substantial or extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.



Evaluation Factor 3: Management Approach Factor

Evaluation Factor 3: Management Approach Factor

Rating

Description

Outstanding

Exceeds performance or capability requirements in a way that will significantly benefit the Government.

Has no deficiencies or significant weaknesses.  

Based on the proposed program management processes of the offeror, essentially no doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Acceptable

Meets performance or capability requirements specified in the Statement of Work.

Has few or no strengths that will benefit the Government.

Has few weaknesses and no deficiencies.  

Based on the proposed program management processes of the offeror, little doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Marginal

Does not meet some performance or capability requirements.

Has one or more major weakness or deficiency which is/are correctable without major changes to the proposal.  

Based on the proposed program management processes of the offeror, some doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Unacceptable

Fails to meet performance or capability requirements.

Has major weaknesses or deficiencies which cannot be corrected without major changes to the proposal.  

Based on the proposed program management processes of the offeror, extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.



Evaluation Factor 4:  Key and Support Personnel Factor

Evaluation Factor 4:  Key and Support Personnel Factor

Rating

Description

Outstanding

All proposed Key and Support Personnel are highly qualified (i.e., Masters Degree or Bachelors Degree and technical and/or professional certifications) and verifiable relevant experience of five (5) years or more working in a fast passed IT environment. 

Based on the offeror’s proposed key and support personnel, essentially no doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Acceptable

The majority of proposed Key and Support Personnel are highly qualified (i.e., Bachelors Degree or higher and technical and/or professional certifications) and a history of verifiable experience working in a fast passed IT environment. 

Based on the offeror’s proposed key and support personnel, little doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Marginal

Some proposed Key and Support Personnel do not meet the criteria for “Acceptable”. 

Based on the offeror’s proposed key and support personnel, some doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Unacceptable

The majority of proposed Key and Support Personnel do not meet the criteria for “Acceptable”, resumes demonstrated inappropriate or inapplicable qualifications for the positions proposed. 

Based on the offeror’s proposed key and support personnel, substantial or extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.Page 1 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299 SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24 & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER 1. REQUISITION NUMBER

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

SAQMMA11R0299
a. NAME

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

10/19/2011
8. OFFER DUE DATE / LOCAL TIME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL
9. ISSUED BY

Andrea M. Smail
CODE

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) c. EMAIL smailam@state.gov

LMAQM

10. THE ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED

11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE

12. DISCOUNT TERMS

OFFICE OF ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (A/LM/AQM) PO BOX 9115, ROSSLYN STATION US DEPARTMENT OF STATE ARLINGTON, VA 22219

X SET ASIDE: 100 % FOR SMALL BUSINESS HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN OWNED SMALL BUSINESS X 8(A) NAICS: 541511 SIZE STANDARD:

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X

RFP

15. DELIVER TO

CODE

OFFICE OF ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (A/LM/AQM) PO BOX 9115, ROSSLYN STATION US DEPARTMENT OF STATE ARLINGTON, VA 22219

LMAQM

16. ADMINISTERED BY

17a. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR CODE

FACILITY

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

Contact Telephone No.

Duns 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES (Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

See Line Items Section
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCES FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN__1__COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF. OFFER DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5) INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF THE CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)

31c. DATE SIGNED

Anthony J. McIntosh
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 10/2010) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

Page 2 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

Table of Contents Section 1 Description Page Number

2

3 5

Solicitation/Contract Form................................................................................................................................ 1.6 DEPARTMENT OF STATE INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS.................................................................. 1.9 KEY PERSONNEL............................................................................................................................... 1.10 SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION................................................................................................. 1.11 NONPAYMENT FOR UNAUTHORIZED WORK........................................................................... H-031 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS....................................................................................................... Contract Clauses..............................................................................................................................................7 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items (June 2010)............................................... 52.202-1 Definitions (July 2004)................................................................................................................. 52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010)......................................................................................... 52.204-2 Security Requirements (Aug 1996).............................................................................................. 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010)................................................................................... 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items (Apr 2011)....................................................................................................... 52.219-14 Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996)................................................................................ 52.219-18 Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8 (A) Concerns (June 2003).......................... 52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008)............................................................. 52.232-1 Payments (Apr 1984).................................................................................................................... 52.233-3 Protest after Award (Aug 1996)................................................................................................... 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004).......................................................... 52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Dec 2010).......................................................................... 652.225-71 SECTION 8(a) OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF 1979, AS AMENDED (AUG 1999)................................................................................................................................................. 652.229-70 EXCISE TAX EXEMPTION STATEMENT FOR CONTRACTORS WITHIN THE UNITED STATES (JUL 1988)................................................................................................................... 652.229-71 PERSONAL PROPERTY DISPOSITION AT POSTS ABROAD (AUG 1999).................... 652.242-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) (AUG 1999)............................ 652.242-71 NOTICE OF SHIPMENTS (JUL 1988).................................................................................. 652.242-72 SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS (DEC 1994)............................................................................. 652.243-70 NOTICES (AUG 1999)............................................................................................................ Solicitation Provisions...................................................................................................................................23 52.233-2 Service of Protest (Sept 2006)...................................................................................................... Representations and Certifications................................................................................................................ 24 652.225-70 ARAB LEAGUE BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL (AUG 1999)........................................................ 652.228-70 DEFENSE BASE ACT - COVERED CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (JUN 2006).............

Page 3 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299 Line Item Solicitation Number: Summary SAQMMA11R0299
Line Item No.

Contract Number:

Title: IIP Content Management System Quantity Unit 0.00 LT Unit Price

Date of Solicitation: 10/19/2011

001

Description See Attachment for the Schedule of Services and Prices/Costs.
Doc Ref No: Delivery Date FOB:

Total Cost

1.6

DEPARTMENT OF STATE INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS

Invoice submission is only via the Office of Claims' Commercial Claims Operations fax server, toll-free number: 866-483-3436, unless otherwise indicated. Each invoice must be transmitted separately. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include the following information and/or attached documentation: (1) Name and Address of the Contractor (2) Dun and Brad Street Universal Number System (DUNS) (3) Date of invoice (4) Unique Vendor Invoice Number (5) Remittance Contact Information (6) Shipping Terms, Ship to Address (7) Payment Terms (8) Total Quantity of Items (9) Total Invoice Amount (10) Requisition Number, Contract Number and Order/Award Number, with modification number if applicable. (11) Order line item number and information (see below instructions) The name and DUNS of the contractor on the invoice must match the information indicated on the order/award for proper payment.
IMPORTANT: For proper payment, the invoice must detail products and/or services delivered on a line item basis in direct accordance with the corresponding order/award/contract. Each line item must contain the following information: (1) Description of the services rendered for each line item (2) Line Item Quantity (3) Line Item Unit Price (4) Total Line Item Invoicing Amount (5) Delivery Date (6) Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) (7) Order/Award Line Item Number if invoicing against a task or delivery order or Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) Please note that many task or delivery orders against Department of State or GSA contracts or blanket purchase agreements may have a separate and unique line item number in addition to the umbrella Contract Line Item Number (CLIN). The order line item number as well as the umbrella award CLIN must be referenced at each invoice line item level in such cases. All payment to domestic claims will be disbursed by electronic funds transfer EFT. Vendors who are registered in

Page 4 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) should verify and re-confirm their financial information in the database prior to invoicing. Vendors who wish to request a waiver of CCR or payment by check must submit their justification to their assigned contracting officer for consideration at least 30 days prior to billing. For vendors who are granted an EFT exception, the payment address on the invoice must match the remittance address in the vendor record cited in the award.

Additional correspondence should be addressed to: Name: U.S. Department of State Global Financial Services Attn: Office of Claims (RM/GFS/F/C)
Charleston Financial Service Center

Mailing Address: Post Office Box 150008
Charleston, SC 29415-5008

Telephone Numbers: Director's Secretary Voice 843-202-3761 Fax 843-746-0749 Official Office Hours: 8:00 am ­ 5:00 pm To request Payment Status on a Past Due Invoice contact: Office of Claims Customer Service Email: commercialclaims@state.gov Phone: 877-704-9473 Toll Free Person to Contact: Supervisor, Vendor Claims Email: GFS-ChiefVC@state.gov Phone: 843-202-3881 (End of clause)
1.9 KEY PERSONNEL

The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following key personnel: LABOR CATEGORY NAME [ENTER LABOR CATEGORIES AND NAMES] [Names to be inserted by Offeror at time of proposal submission.] The Contractor agrees that a partial basis for award of this contract is the list of key personnel proposed. Accordingly, the Contractor agrees to assign to this contract those key persons whose resumes were submitted with the proposal necessary to fulfill the requirements of the contract. No substitution shall be made without prior notification to and concurrence of the Contracting Officer. During the first ninety days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death,

Page 5 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

or termination of employment. All proposed substitutes shall meet or exceed the qualifications of the person to be replaced. The Contracting Officer shall be notified in writing of any proposed substitution at least forty-five days, or ninety days if a security clearance is to be obtained, in advance of the proposed substitution. Such notification shall include: (1) an explanation of the circumstances necessitating the substitution; (2) a complete resume of the proposed substitute; and (3) any other information requested by the Contracting Officer to enable him to judge whether or not the Contractor is maintaining the same high quality of personnel that provided the partial basis for award. (end of clause)
1.10 SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION

The Contractor and its employees shall exercise the utmost discretion in regard to all matters relating to their duties and functions. They shall not communicate to any person any information known to them by reason of their performance of services under this contract which has not been made public, except in the necessary performance of their duties or upon written authorization of the Contracting Officer. All documents and records (including photographs) generated during the performance of work under this contract shall be for the sole use of and become the exclusive property of the U.S. Government. Furthermore, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance, film or photograph concerning any aspect of work performed under this contract shall be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the Contracting Officer. These obligations do not cease upon the expiration or termination of this contract. The Contractor shall include the substance of this provision in all contracts of employment and in all subcontracts hereunder. (end of clause)
1.11 NONPAYMENT FOR UNAUTHORIZED WORK

No payments will be made for any unauthorized supplies or services, or for any unauthorized changes to the work specified herein. This includes any services performed by the Contractor of his own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer. Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and/or conditions of this contract. (end of clause)
H-031 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 11/01/2008

(a) A facility security clearance at the SECRET CLEARANCE level is required for contract performance in accordance with the DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification, attached to this contract.(b) Since it will be necessary for some Contractor personnel to have access to classified material and/or to enter into areas requiring a security clearance, each Contractor employee requiring such access must have an individual security clearance commensurate with the required level of access prior to contract performance. Individual clearances shall be maintained for the duration of employment under this contract, or until access requirements change.(c) The Contractor shall obtain a Department of State building pass for all employees performing under this contract who require frequent and continuing access to Department of State facilities in accordance with Bureau of Diplomatic Security Instructions. (d) Performance of this contract shall be in accordance with the attached DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification and FAR 52.204-2 "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS."(e) Classified material received or generated in the performance of this contract shall be safeguarded and disposed

Page 6 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

of in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DOD 5220.22-M). (end of clause)

Page 7 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

Section 2 - Contract Clauses

Clauses By Reference Clause Title
52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items (June 2010)

Date
06/16/2010

52.202-1

Definitions (July 2004)

07/19/2004

(a) When a solicitation provision or contract clause uses a word or term that is defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the word or term has the same meaning as the definition in FAR 2.101 in effect at the time the solicitation was issued, unless(1) The solicitation, or amended solicitation, provides a different definition; (2) The contracting parties agree to a different definition; (3) The part, subpart, or section of the FAR where the provision or clause is prescribed provides a different meaning; or (4) The word or term is defined in FAR Part 31, for use in the cost principles and procedures. (b) The FAR Index is a guide to words and terms the FAR defines and shows where each definition is located. The FAR Index is available via the Internet at http://www.acqnet.gov at the end of the FAR, after the FAR Appendix. (End of clause)
52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010) 10/01/2010

(a) Definitions. "Kickback," as used in this clause, means any money, fee, commission, credit, gift, gratuity, thing of value, or compensation of any kind which is provided, directly or indirectly, to any prime Contractor, prime Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee for the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favorable treatment in connection with a prime contract or in connection with a subcontract relating to a prime contract. "Person," as used in this clause, means a corporation, partnership, business association of any kind, trust, joint-stock company, or individual. "Prime contract," as used in this clause, means a contract or contractual action entered into by the United States for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind.

Page 8 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

"Prime Contractor" United States.

as used in this clause, means a person who has entered into a prime contract with the

"Prime Contractor employee," prime Contractor.

as used in this clause, means any officer, partner, employee, or agent of a

"Subcontract," as used in this clause, means a contract or contractual action entered into by a prime Contractor or subcontractor for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind under a prime contract. "Subcontractor," as used in this clause, (1) means any person, other than the prime Contractor, who offers to furnish or furnishes any supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind under a prime contract or a subcontract entered into in connection with such prime contract, and (2) includes any person who offers to furnish or furnishes general supplies to the prime Contractor or a higher tier subcontractor. "Subcontractor employee," subcontractor. as used in this clause, means any officer, partner, employee, or agent of a

(b) The Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (41 U.S.C. 51-58) (the Act), prohibits any person from(1) Providing or attempting to provide or offering to provide any kickback; (2) Soliciting, accepting, or attempting to accept any kickback; or (3) Including, directly or indirectly, the amount of any kickback in the contract price charged by a prime Contractor to the United States or in the contract price charged by a subcontractor to a prime Contractor or higher tier subcontractor. (c)(1) The Contractor shall have in place and follow reasonable procedures designed to prevent and detect possible violations described in paragraph (b) of this clause in its own operations and direct business relationships. (2) When the Contractor has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation described in paragraph (b) of this clause may have occurred, the Contractor shall promptly report in writing the possible violation. Such reports shall be made to the inspector general of the contracting agency, the head of the contracting agency if the agency does not have an inspector general, or the Department of Justice. (3) The Contractor shall cooperate fully with any Federal agency investigating a possible violation described in paragraph (b) of this clause. (4) The Contracting Officer may (i) offset the amount of the kickback against any monies owed by the United States under the prime contract and/or (ii) direct that the Prime Contractor withhold from sums owed a subcontractor under the prime contract the amount of the kickback. The Contracting Officer may order that

Page 9 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

monies withheld under subdivision (c)(4)(ii) of this clause be paid over to the Government unless the Government has already offset those monies under subdivision (c)(4)(i) of this clause. In either case, the Prime Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer when the monies are withheld. (5) The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including paragraph (c)(5) but excepting paragraph (c)(1), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed $150,000. (End of clause)
52.204-2 Security Requirements (Aug 1996) 08/01/1996

(a) This clause applies to the extent that this contract involves access to information classified "Confidential," "Secret," or "Top Secret." (b) The Contractor shall comply with(1) The Security Agreement (DD Form 441), including the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DoD 5220.22-M); and (2) Any revisions to that manual, notice of which has been furnished to the Contractor. (c) If, subsequent to the date of this contract, the security classification or security requirements under this contract are changed by the Government and if the changes cause an increase or decrease in security costs or otherwise affect any other term or condition of this contract, the contract shall be subject to an equitable adjustment as if the changes were directed under the Changes clause of this contract. (d) The Contractor agrees to insert terms that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph (d) but excluding any reference to the Changes clause of this contract, in all subcontracts under this contract that involve access to classified information. (End of clause)

52.209-6

Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010)

12/13/2010

(a) Definition. "Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)" item, as used in this clause-(1) Means any item of supply (including construction material) that is-(i) A commercial item (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition in FAR 2.101); (ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and (iii) Offered to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier, without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and (2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. App. 1702), such as agricultural products and petroleum products.

Page 10 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

(b) The Government suspends or debars Contractors to protect the Government's interests. Other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, the Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract, in excess of $30,000 with a Contractor that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by any executive agency unless there is a compelling reason to do so. (c) The Contractor shall require each proposed subcontractor whose subcontract will exceed $30,000, other than a subcontractor providing a commercially available off-the-shelf item, to disclose to the Contractor, in writing, whether as of the time of award of the subcontract, the subcontractor, or its principals, is or is not debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government. (d) A corporate officer or a designee of the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, before entering into a subcontract with a party (other than a subcontractor providing a commercially available off-the-shelf item) that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment (see FAR 9.404 for information on the Excluded Parties List System). The notice must include the following: (1) The name of the subcontractor. (2) The Contractor's knowledge of the reasons for the subcontractor being in the Excluded Parties List System. (3) The compelling reason(s) for doing business with the subcontractor notwithstanding its inclusion in the Excluded Parties List System. (4) The systems and procedures the Contractor has established to ensure that it is fully protecting the Government's interests when dealing with such subcontractor in view of the specific basis for the party's debarment, suspension, or proposed debarment. (e) Subcontracts. Unless this is a contract for the acquisition of commercial items, the Contractor shall include the requirements of this clause, including this paragraph (e) (appropriately modified for the identification of the parties), in each subcontract that-(1) Exceeds $30,000 in value; and (2) Is not a subcontract for commercially available off the-shelf items. (End of clause)
52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items (Apr 2011) 04/01/2011

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

Page 11 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). __ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C.7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] x(1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). x(2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). x(3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) x(4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ____(5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010)(Pub. L. 111-5). x(6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). ____(7) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ____(8) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ____(9) [Reserved] ____(10)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ____(ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. ____(iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6. ____(11)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ____(ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ____(iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. ____(12) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ____(13)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). ____(ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ____(iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

Page 12 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

____(iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. ____(14) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ____(15) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ____(16)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ____(ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ____(17) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ____(18) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ____(19) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004)(15 U.S.C. 657 f). ____(20) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __(21) 52.219.29 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (APR 2011).__(22) 52.219.30 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (APR 2011).x(23) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). x(24) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). x(25) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). x(26) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)(E.O. 11246). x(27) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). x(28) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). x(29) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans, (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). x(30) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). x(31) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) x(32)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ____(ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9(42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) x(33) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). x(34)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). ____(ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. x(35) 52.223-18, Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513). x(36) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies(Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). x(37)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C.3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). ____(ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.

Page 13 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

____(iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. x(38) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009)(19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). x(39) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ____(40) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ____(41) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C.5150). x(42) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f),10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). x(43) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f),10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). x(44) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)(31 U.S.C. 3332). x(45) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). x(46) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010)(31 U.S.C. 3332). x(47) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ____(48)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006)(46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ____(ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment -- Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services -Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation.

Page 14 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

Page 15 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

__ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C.7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009)(41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)
52.219-14 Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) 12/01/1996

(a) This clause does not apply to the unrestricted portion of a partial set-aside. (b) By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Offeror/Contractor agrees that in performance of the contract in the case of a contract for(1) Services (except construction). At least 50 percent of the cost of contract performance incurred for personnel shall be expended for employees of the concern. (2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies). The concern shall perform work for at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies, not including the cost of materials. (3) General construction. The concern will perform at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, with its own employees. (4) Construction by special trade contractors. The concern will perform at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, with its own employees. (End of clause)
52.219-18 Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8 (A) Concerns (June 2003) 06/02/2003

(a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA's 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer-(1) The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and

Page 16 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

(2) The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action directed by the SBA. (b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the successful 8(a) offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation. (d)(1) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts. (2) The _______________ [insert name of SBA's contractor] will notify the _______________ [insert name of contracting agency] Contracting Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest to any other party. (End of clause)
52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) 06/12/2008

(a) Except as authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the Department of the Treasury, the Contractor shall not acquire, for use in the performance of this contract, any supplies or services if any proclamation, Executive order, or statute administered by OFAC, or if OFAC's implementing regulations at 31 CFR Chapter V, would prohibit such a transaction by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) Except as authorized by OFAC, most transactions involving Cuba, Iran, and Sudan are prohibited, as are most imports from Burma or North Korea, into the United States or its outlying areas. Lists of entities and individuals subject to economic sanctions are included in OFAC 's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn. More information about these restrictions, as well as updates, is available in the OFAC' s regulations at 31 CFR Chapter V and/or on OFAC' s website at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac. (c) The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts. (End of clause)
52.232-1 Payments (Apr 1984) 04/01/1984

The Government shall pay the Contractor, upon the submission of proper invoices or vouchers, the prices stipulated in this contract for supplies delivered and accepted or services rendered and accepted, less any deductions provided in this contract. Unless otherwise specified in this contract, payment shall be made on partial deliveries accepted by the Government if(a) The amount due on the deliveries warrants it; or (b) The Contractor requests it and the amount due on the deliveries is at least $1,000 or 50 percent of the total contract price. (End of clause)

Page 17 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

52.233-3

Protest after Award (Aug 1996)

08/01/1996

(a) Upon receipt of a notice of protest (as defined in FAR 33.101) or a determination that a protest is likely (see FAR 33.102(d)), the Contracting Officer may, by written order to the Contractor, direct the Contractor to stop performance of the work called for by this contract. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stop-page. Upon receipt of the final decision in the protest, the Contracting Officer shall either-(1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled either before or after a final decision in the protest, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-(1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to an adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. (e) The Government's rights to terminate this contract at any time are not affected by action taken under this clause. (f) If, as the result of the Contractor's intentional or negligent misstatement, misrepresentation, or miscertification, a protest related to this contract is sustained, and the Government pays costs, as provided in FAR 33.102(b)(2) or 33.104(h)(1), the Government may require the Contractor to reimburse the Government the amount of such costs. In addition to any other remedy available, and pursuant to the requirements of Subpart 32.6, the Government may collect this debt by offsetting the amount against any payment due the Contractor under any contract between the Contractor and the Government. (End of clause)
52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) 10/01/2004

United States law will apply to resolve any claim of breach of this contract. (End of clause)
52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Dec 2010) 12/13/2010

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

Page 18 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

"Commercial item" has the meaning contained in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101, Definitions. "Subcontract" includes a transfer of commercial items between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the Contractor or subcontractor at any tier. (b) To the maximum extent practicable, the Contractor shall incorporate, and require its subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, commercial items or nondevelopmental items as components of items to be supplied under this contract. (c)(1) The Contractor shall insert the following clauses in subcontracts for commercial items: (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (April 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)), if the subcontract exceeds $5,000,000 and has a performance period of more than 120 days. In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (ii) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5), if the subcontract is funded under the Recovery Act. (iii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), if the subcontract offers further subcontracting opportunities, if the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212(a)); (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O.13496), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (ix) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. App. 1241 and 10 U.S.C. 2631), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64). (2) While not required, the Contractor may flow down to subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.

Page 19 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

(d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this contract. (End of clause)
652.225-71 SECTION 8(a) OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF 1979, AS AMENDED (AUG 1999) 08/01/1999

(a) Section 8(a) of the U.S. Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2407(a)), prohibits compliance by U.S. persons with any boycott fostered by a foreign country against a country which is friendly to the United States and which is not itself the object of any form of boycott pursuant to United States law or regulation. The Boycott of Israel by Arab League countries is such a boycott, and therefore, the following actions, if taken with intent to comply with, further, or support the Arab League Boycott of Israel, are prohibited activities under the Export Administration Act: (1) Refusing, or requiring any U.S. person to refuse to do business with or in Israel, with any Israeli concern, or with any national or resident of Israel, or with any other person, pursuant to an agreement of, or a request from or on behalf of a boycotting country; (2) Refusing, or requiring any U.S. person to refuse to employ or otherwise discriminating against any person on the basis of race, religion, sex, or national origin of that person or of any owner, officer, director, or employee of such person; (3) Furnishing information with respect to the race, religion, or national origin of any U.S. person or of any owner, officer, director, or employee of such U.S. person; (4) Furnishing information about whether any person has, has had, or proposes to have any business relationship (including a relationship by way of sale, purchase, legal or commercial representation, shipping or other transport, insurance, investment, or supply) with or in the State of Israel, with any business concern organized under the laws of the State of Israel, with any Israeli national or resident, or with any person which is known or believed to be restricted from having any business relationship with or in Israel; (5) Furnishing information about whether any person is a member of, has made contributions to, or is otherwise associated with or involved in the activities of any charitable or fraternal organization which supports the State of Israel; and, (6) Paying, honoring, confirming, or otherwise implementing letter of credit which contains any condition or requirement against doing business with the State of Israel. (b) Under Section 8(a), the following types of activities are not forbidden compliance with the boycott , and are therefore exempted from Section 8(a)'s prohibitions listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) above: (1) Complying or agreeing to comply with requirements: (i) Prohibiting the import of goods or services from Israel or goods produced or services provided by any business concern organized under the laws of Israel or by nationals or residents of Israel; or, (ii) Prohibiting the shipment of goods to Israel on a carrier of Israel, or by a route other than that prescribed by the boycotting country or the recipient of the shipment; (2) Complying or agreeing to comply with import and shipping document requirements with respect to the country of origin, the name of the carrier and route of shipment, the name of the supplier of the shipment or the name of the provider of other services, except that no information knowingly furnished or conveyed in response to such requirements may be stated in negative, blacklisting, or similar exclusionary terms, other than with respect to carriers or route of shipments as may be permitted by such regulations in order to comply with precautionary requirements protecting against war risks and confiscation; (3) Complying or agreeing to comply in the normal course of business with the unilateral and specific selection by a boycotting country, or national or resident thereof, of carriers, insurance, suppliers of services to be performed within the boycotting country or specific goods which, in the normal course of business, are

Page 20 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

identifiable by source when imported into the boycotting country; (4) Complying or agreeing to comply with the export requirements of the boycotting country relating to shipments or transshipments of exports to Israel, to any business concern of or organized under the laws of Israel, or to any national or resident of Israel; (5) Compliance by an individual or agreement by an individual to comply with the immigration or passport requirements of any country with respect to such individual or any member of such individual's family or with requests for information regarding requirements of employment of such individual within the boycotting country; and, (6) Compliance by a U.S. person resident in a foreign country or agreement by such person to comply with the laws of that country with respect to his or her activities exclusively therein, and such regulations may contain exceptions for such resident complying with the laws or regulations of that foreign country governing imports into such country of trademarked, trade named, or similarly specifically identifiable products, or components of products for his or her own use, including the performance of contractual services within that country, as may be defined by such regulations. (End of clause)
652.229-70 EXCISE TAX EXEMPTION STATEMENT FOR CONTRACTORS WITHIN THE UNITED STATES (JUL 1988) 07/01/1988

This is to certify that the item(s) covered by this contract is/are for export solely for the use of the U.S. Foreign Service Post identified in the contract schedule. The Contractor shall use a photocopy of this contract as evidence of intent to export. Final proof of exportation may be obtained from the agent handling the shipment. Such proof shall be accepted in lieu of payment of excise tax. (End of clause)
652.229-71 PERSONAL PROPERTY DISPOSITION AT POSTS ABROAD (AUG 1999) 08/01/1999

Regulations at 22 CFR Part 136 require that U.S. Government employees and their families do not profit personally from sales or other transactions with persons who are not themselves entitled to exemption from import restrictions, duties, or taxes. Should the contractor experience importation or tax privileges in a foreign country because of its contractual relationship to the United States Government, the contractor shall observe the requirements of 22 CFR Part 136 and all policies, rules, and procedures issued by the chief of mission in that foreign country. (End of clause)
652.242-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) (AUG 1999) 08/01/1999

(a) The Contracting Officer may designate in writing one or more Government employees, by name and position title, to take action for the Contracting Officer under this contract. Each designee shall be identified as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). Such designation(s) shall specify the scope and limitations of the authority so delegated; provided, that the designee shall not change the terms or conditions of the contract, unless the COR is a warranted Contracting Officer and this authority is delegated in the designation. (b) The COR shall be determined at time of award.. (End of clause)
652.242-71 NOTICE OF SHIPMENTS (JUL 1988) 07/01/1988

At the time of delivery of supplies to a carrier for onward transportation, the Contractor shall give notice of

Page 21 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

prepaid shipment to the consignee establishment, and to other such persons as instructed by the Contracting Officer. If the Contractor has not received such instructions by 24 hours prior to the delivery time, the Contractor shall contact the Contracting Officer and request instructions from the Contracting Officer concerning the notice of shipment to be given. (End of clause)
652.242-72 SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS (DEC 1994) 12/01/1994

(a) Each packing box shall be of solid construction in accordance with best commercial practices and sufficiently strong in direct ratio to the weight of the contents to withstand excessively rough handling while in transit overseas. It shall be constructed of lumber that is well seasoned, reasonably sound, free from bad cross grain and from knots or knotholes that interfere with nailing or that occupy more than 1/3 of the width of the piece of lumber. Box shall be constructed with three-way corners and diagonal bracing. All nails shall be cement-coated, of correct size and properly spaced to avoid splitting or warping, and shall be driven into the grain of the wood. Dimension of lumber shall be in accordance with the following table, dependent upon the weight of the contents: Weight of box and Minimum dimensions of lumber for struts, contents frame members, and single diagonal braces Up to 45 kg 19.05 x 57.15mm 46 to 113 kg 22.23 x 73.03mm 114 to 181 kg 22.23 x 98.43mm 182 to 272 kg 22.23 x 123.83mm or 25.4 x 98.43mm (b) Each box shall be lined with waterproof paper and shall be bound with 19.05mm steel straps firmly stapled in position to prevent the straps from slipping off the box. Articles must be secured and braced inside the shipping container to prevent the articles from shifting. (c) Packing cases weighing 453.5 kg and more must be equipped with skids. Each skid shall consist of two end sections of 50.8 x 152.4mm lumber placed flat and a center section of 50.8 x 101.6mm lumber placed flat and then arranged in line to prove 254mm forklift spaces between center and end sections. When goods are ready for shipment, the Contractor shall prepare four (4) copies of a packing list, indicating the contract and, if applicable, order numbers; case number; itemized list of contents; net and gross weights in kilograms; and outside dimensions, including all clears, of each shipping container. The Contractor shall provide three (3) copies of the packing list to the U.S. Despatch Agent specified in the contract or order. The Contractor shall place the fourth copy of the packing list in packing case number one, which shall be marked as such so that it is easily identified by the consignee. Upon receipt of the packing list, the Despatch Agent will furnish export marks and instructions regarding shipment to the port specified, depending upon steamer services available at the time. (d) The export marks shall be stenciled on one side of each box reserved for that purpose, and the appropriate case number stenciled in the lower left-hand corner of the same side. The contract and, as necessary, order numbers, net and gross weights in kilograms shall be stenciled on the same side. However, if the size of the box is too small to accommodate all stenciling on one side, the contract and order numbers and weights may be stenciled on the side opposite that used for the export marks and case number. (e) The contract and, as necessary, order numbers must appear on all containers and papers relating to this clause. (End of clause)
652.243-70 NOTICES (AUG 1999) 08/01/1999

Any notice or request relating to this contract given by either party to the other shall be in writing.

Said notice

Page 22 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

or request shall be mailed or delivered by hand to the other party at the address provided in the schedule of the contract. All modifications to the contract must be made in writing by the contracting officer. (End of clause)

Page 23 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

Section 3 - Solicitation Provisions

52.233-2

Service of Protest (Sept 2006)

09/01/2006

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from [Contracting Officer designate the official or location where a protest may be served on the Contracting Officer.] . (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision)

Page 24 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

Section 5 - Representations and Certifications

652.225-70

ARAB LEAGUE BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL (AUG 1999)

08/01/1999

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision: 'Foreign person' means any person other than a United States person as defined below. 'United States person' means any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern), and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as provided under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended. (b) Certification. By submitting this offer, the offeror certifies that it is not: (1) Taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the boycott of Israel by Arab League countries, which Section 8(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2407(a)) prohibits a United States person from taking; or, (2) Discriminating in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion. (End of provision)
652.228-70 DEFENSE BASE ACT - COVERED CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (JUN 2006) 06/01/2008

(a) Bidders/offerors shall indicate below whether or not any of the following categories of employees will be employed on the resultant contract, and, if so, the number of such employees: Category Yes/No Number (1) United States citizens or residents (2) Individuals hired in the United States, regardless of citizenship (3) Local nationals or third Local nationals: country nationals where contract Third country nationals: performance takes place in a country where there are no local worker's compensation laws (4) Local nationals or third Local nationals: country nationals where Third country nationals: performance takes place in a country where there are local worker's compensation laws (b) The contracting officer has determined that for performance in the country of [contracting officer insert country of performance and check the appropriate block below] : ˇ Worker's compensation laws exist that will cover local nationals and third country nationals. ˇ Worker's compensation laws do not exist that will cover local nationals and third country nationals. (c) If the bidder/offeror has indicated "yes" in block (a)(4) of this provision, the bidder/offeror shall not

Page 25 of 25 SAQMMA11R0299

purchase Defense Base Act insurance for those employees. However, the bidder/offeror shall assume liability toward the employees and their beneficiaries for war-hazard injury, death, capture, or detention, in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.228-4. (d) If the bidder/offeror has indicated "yes" in blocks (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this provision, the bidder/offeror shall compute Defense Base Act insurance costs covering those employees pursuant to the terms of the contract between the Department of State and the Department s Defense Base Act insurance carrier at the rates specified in DOSAR 652.228-74, Defense Base Act Insurance Rates - Limitation. If DOSAR provision 652.228-74 is not included in this solicitation, the bidder/offeror shall notify the contracting officer before the closing date so that the solicitation can be amended accordingly. (End of provision)

