
PART I - THE SCHEDULE  Request for Proposal
SECTION A - SOLICITATION FORM                       No. AHRQ-10-10007B

                            Date Issued: March 29, 2010
                            Date Questions Due: April 14, 2010 12:00 PM
                            Date Notice of Intent Due: April 30, 2010 1200 PM
                            Date Proposals Due: May 13, 2010 12:00 PM EST

You are invited to submit a proposal to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) for Request for Proposal (RFP) No.  AHRQ-10-10007B,
entitled “Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center.”  Your proposal  must  be  developed  and  submitted  in  accordance  with  the
requirements and instructions of this RFP.

An Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity, Cost Reimbursement, multiple-award, task order-type contract is contemplated  for  five  years.  The
total amount of all task orders competed under the program is not expected to exceed $50,000,000.00 over the five year period of this contract.

The Government anticipates awarding four – six contracts from this one solicitation.

Offerors shall submit the following:

A.    Technical Proposal (See Section L.10) ( 1Original and 9 copies)
B.    Past Performance Information (See Section L.11) (1 Original and 9 copies)
C.    Business Proposal (See Section L.13) (1 Original and 9 copies)

Your technical proposal must be concisely written and should  be  limited  to  40  typewritten  pages  (double-spaced),  exclusive  of  personnel
qualifications (i.e., resume, etc., see Section L.10 for additional details).  This limitation is for administrative purposes only and  exceeding
the limitation shall not, of itself, be considered a basis for rejection of your proposal.

As part of the business proposal, offerors shall provide 1 Original and 9 copies of their cost/price proposal, only to the extent that  it  shall
include:

1. Certified, unloaded, labor rates for individuals expected to work on a project of this size and nature (Class Levels I through VI). Copy of
   most recent payroll register for ALL proposed employees.  If necessary, show proposed hourly rate calculations for each employee. Breakdown of
   proposed unloaded direct labor rates and proposed number of direct labor hours for each employee for each contract year. State salary increase
   policy, as well as proposed increase factor.  If it is company policy for employees to receive salary increases on their anniversary dates of
   hire, please indicate the anniversary dates of hire for each proposed employee.

 2.  Certified documentation indicating that the offeror has a cost accounting system in place which allows for the collection, tracking and
 reporting of all costs under a cost reimbursement-type contract. Detailed breakdown of each proposed direct cost element by contract year (not
 by task only), showing proposed total quantities per year and corresponding proposed unit costs for each item. Supporting documentation for
 each proposed unit cost.  Examples of accepted forms of documentation include invoices, catalog pages, quotations, and general ledgers showing
 historical costs for comparable items. State the proposed period of performance that proposed costs are based upon.


 3.  Certified documentation that the offeror has a current indirect cost rate agreement in place with a federal agency or that is in the
 process of obtaining or revising such an agreement.  A copy of the indirect cost rate agreement or the proposed rate agreement must be
 provided. If no rate agreement exists, show detailed calculations of all proposed indirect rates, supported by audited or reviewed financial
 statements.

Your proposal must provide the full name of your company, the address, including county, Tax Identification  Number  (TIN),  DUN  and  Bradstreet
No., and if different, the address to which payment should be mailed.
YOUR ATTENTION IS CALLED TO THE LATE PROPOSAL PROVISIONS PROVIDED IN SECTION L.3 OF THIS RFP.  YOUR ATTENTION IS ALSO DIRECTED TO  THE  TECHNICAL
PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS PROVIDED IN SECTION L.10 OF THE SOLICITATION.

If you intend to submit a proposal in response to this solicitation, please inform the Contract Specialist  of  your  intent  by  completing  the
Proposal Intent Response Form (Attachment 3 to this solicitation) and send it to the Contract Specialist no later than the  date  listed  at  the
top of the cover page.  You may send it to the address below or fax it to 301-427-1740, Attention:  Contract  Specialist  (listed  on  the  cover
sheet).

Questions regarding this solicitation shall be received in this office no later than later than the date listed at the  top  of  the  cover  page
(See Section L.7).   All questions shall be submitted electronically by e-mail to Randy S. Allison, Contract Specialist, at the  following  email
address: randy.allison@ahrq.hhs.gov.  Subject line shall read: “Proposal Questions RFP No. AHRQ-10-10007B.”

Answers to questions will be provided in the form of an  Amendment  to  this  solicitation  on  the  Federal  Business  Opportunities  web  page:
www.fedbizopps.gov.  It is your responsibility to monitor FEDBIZOPs to learn about any amendments to the solicitation.

Discussions with any other individual outside the Division of Contracts Management, may result in rejection of the potential offeror’s proposal.

The proposal shall be signed by an authorized official to bind your organization and must be received in our Contracts Office no  later  than  12
noon on the date listed at the top of the cover page.  Your proposal must be mailed to the following address:

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
Division of Contracts Management
540 Gaither Road
Rockville, Maryland  20850

Hand carried proposals may be dropped off at the above location.  However, please allow ample time as proposals cannot  be  accepted  until  they
have gone through security.  We will not be held responsible for any delays that may be incurred getting your proposal through security.

NOTE: The U.S. Postal Service’s “Express Mail” does not deliver to our Rockville, Maryland address.  Packages delivered via this service will  be
           held at a local post office for pick-up.  The Government will not be responsible for picking up any mail at a local post office.   If
           a proposal is not received at the place, date, and time specified herein, it will be considered a “late proposal.”

The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal.  It is also brought  to  your  attention
that the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in  connection  with
the proposed acquisition.

In accordance with Federal Acquisition Circular (FAC) 2001-16, all contractors must be registered in the central  contractor  registration  (CCR)
database in order to conduct business with the government [See Section I -  FAR clause  52.204-7  Central  Contractor  Registration  (OCT  2003),
Alternate 1 (Oct 2003)] .  As stated in paragraph (h) of this clause, additional information can be obtained at http://www.ccr.gov or by  calling
1-888-227-2423, or 269-961-5757.

Requests for any information concerning this RFP should be referred to Randy S. Allison,
(301) 427-1460 or e-mail: randy.allison@ahrq.hhs.gov. Please note e-mail requests should state subject as RFP AHRQ 10-10007.


                                       Sincerely,

                                       Randy S. Allison
                                       Contract Specialist
                                       Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I                                                         Pages

   Section A                     Solicitation                                                   1-3
                                       Table of Contents                                    4

Section B                     Supplies or Services & Prices/Costs                      5-8
Section C                     Description/Specification/Work Statement             9-15
Section D                     Packaging and Marking                                         16
Section E                     Inspection and Acceptance                                    16
   Section F                     Deliveries or Performance                                      17-18
Section G                     Contract Administration Data                                 19 - 21
Section H                      Special Contract Requirements          22 - 32

PART II

Section I                       Contract Clauses                                                    33 - 38

PART III

Section J                        List of Attachments                                               39

PART IV

Section K                      Representations and Instructions                            39 - 49
Section L                      Instructions, Conditions & Notices to Offerors         50 -70
Section M                     Evaluation Factors for Award              71 - 76

Attachments

1.  Past Performance Questionnaire and Contractor Performance          77 - 81
     Form
2.  SF LLL-A, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities                              82 - 86
3.  Proposal Intent Response Sheet                                     87
4.  Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Information Only)                    88 - 99
5.  AHRQ Portfolios                                                    100 - 101
                                                 SECTION B-SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

B.1   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES
      “Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center”

 See Section C for a complete description. The overall purpose of this procurement,  is to support AHRQ’s Prevention/Care Management Portfolio
in its work to build evidence and facilitate improvements in primary care, clinical preventive services, and care of chronic conditions related
to:  1) clinical decision making; and 2) the application of primary care transformation principles, including care coordination, patient
activation/self management support, the integration of health information technology in support of the goals of the Portfolio, and linkages
between clinical practices and community-based/public health interventions for prevention and care of chronic conditions.

This is a Multiple Award IDIQ contract.  Task Orders will be issued supporting  Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance efforts.  It is
anticipated that the PCM TAC will help build the Nation’s capacity for effective work in the prevention of disease and the provision of care for
chronic conditions, with a special emphasis on improving primary care and building successful collaborations across the clinical services,
public health, and community sectors. The types of work to be carried out by the contractor(s) fall into three domains:


    ▪ Administration & Management;

    ▪  Research & Project Development;

    ▪ Communications.


B.2   TASK ORDERS

      This is a Multiple Award IDIQ contract requirement for “Prevention/Care Management Technical  Assistance  Center.”  All  services  will  be
acquired on an as-needed basis through issuance of task orders.  See Section H.12 for Task Order issuance procedures.


B.3   PROPOSED LABOR RATES FOR TASK ORDERS

Note: The following labor rates are NOT loaded rates.  (Ranges in rates may be provided)
                                                                      Year 1

LABOR CATEGORY                                     HOURLY RATE

Class I                                                       $

Class II                                                 $

Class III                                                $

Class IV                                                 $

Class VI                                                 $

                                                                      Year 2

LABOR CATEGORY                                     HOURLY RATE

Class I                                                       $

Class II                                                 $

Class III                                                $

Class IV                                                 $

Class VI                                                      $



                                                                      Year 3

LABOR CATEGORY                                     HOURLY RATE

Class I                                                       $

Class II                                                 $

Class III                                                $

Class IV                                                 $

Class VI                                                      $




                                                                      Year 4

LABOR CATEGORY                                     HOURLY RATE

Class I                                                  $

Class II                                                 $

Class III                                                $

Class IV                                                 $

Class VI                                                      $

                                                                      Year 5

LABOR CATEGORY                                     HOURLY RATE

Class I                                                       $

Class II                                                 $

Class III                                                $

Class IV                                                 $

Class VI                                                      $


B.4   PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO DIRECT COSTS

a.    Items Unallowable Unless Otherwise Provided Notwithstanding the clauses, ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT, and FIXED FEE, incorporated into  this
      contract, unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the costs of the following items or activities shall be  unallowable  as
      direct costs:

      (1)   Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property;

      (2)   Rearrangement or alteration of facilities;

      (3)   Purchase or lease of any item of general purpose-office furniture or office equipment regardless of dollar  value.  (General  purpose
                       equipment is defined as any items of personal property which are usable for purposes other than research, such  as  office
                       equipment and furnishings, pocket calculators, etc.);

      (4)   Accountable Government property (defined as both real and personal property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or more, with  a  life
                       expectancy of more than two years) and "sensitive items" (defined and listed in the  Contractor's  Guide  for  Control  of
                       Government Property, 1990, regardless of acquisition value;

      (5)   Travel to attend general scientific meetings;

      (6)   Foreign Travel;

      (7)   Any costs incurred prior to the contract's effective date;

      (8)   Rental of meeting rooms not otherwise expressly paid for by the contract;

      (9)   Any formal subcontract arrangements not otherwise expressly provided for in the contract;

                 (10)  Consultant fees in excess of $1000/day;


                   11) Information Technology hardware or software and


                   12) Food and Beverages.


     b. This contract is subject to the provisions of Public Law (P.L.) 99-234 which amends the Office of  Federal  Procurement  Policy  Act  to
        provide that contractor costs for travel, including lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses, shall be allowable only to  the
        extent that they do not exceed the amount allowed for Federal employees.  The Contractor, therefore, shall invoice and be reimbursed for
        all travel costs in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 31.205-46.
                                               SECTION C- DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATION/WORK STATEMENT

Background & Objectives

The overall purpose of this procurement, extending over the (3) years of the contract period (three base years with two one year options), is to
support AHRQ’s Prevention/Care Management Portfolio in its work to build evidence and facilitate improvements in primary care, clinical
preventive services, and care of chronic conditions related to:  1) clinical decision making; and 2) the application of primary care
transformation principles, including care coordination, patient activation/self management support, the integration of health information
technology in support of the goals of the Portfolio, and linkages between clinical practices and community-based/public health interventions for
prevention and care of chronic conditions.

Under  this Multiple Award IDIQ contract, the contractor(s) will establish a Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center (PCM TAC).
It is anticipated that the PCM TAC will help build the Nation’s capacity for effective work in the prevention of disease and the provision of
care for chronic conditions, with a special emphasis on improving primary care and building successful collaborations across the clinical
services, public health, and community sectors. The PCM TAC will use multiple methods (including direct technical assistance, knowledge
transfer, health communications strategy development, and dissemination of tools, resources, and research results) to maximize the benefit to
health care systems, primary care practices, primary care clinicians and patients of investments made by the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality (AHRQ) and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) in prevention and care management research, dissemination, and
implementation initiatives.


Statement of Work

The mission of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) is to improve the quality, safety, efficiency and effectiveness of health
care for all Americans.  In 2008, the Agency restructured its work within six portfolios including: Comparative Effectiveness; Health
Information Technology; Innovation and Emerging Issues; Patient Safety; Prevention/Care Management; and Value.

The mission of the Prevention/Care Management Portfolio is to improve the quality, safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of the delivery of
evidence-based preventive services and chronic care management in ambulatory care settings.  The Prevention/Care Management Portfolio works to
accomplish its mission through two strategic goals.  The strategic goals are based on the Expanded Care Model[1], a new model that includes
population health promotion and enhanced community participation in the work of health system teams to improve clinical outcomes.  The
Portfolio’s two strategic goals are:

   1. Supporting clinical decision-making for preventive services through the generation of new knowledge, the synthesis of evidence, and the
      dissemination and implementation of evidence-based recommendations; and,

   2. Supporting the evidence base for and implementation of activities to improve primary care and clinical outcomes through
      ▪ health care redesign;
      ▪ clinical-community linkages;
      ▪ self management support;
      ▪ integration of health information technology; and
      ▪ care coordination.

These goals are accomplished through work in the areas of knowledge generation, knowledge synthesis and dissemination, and implementation and
use of knowledge.

Knowledge Generation

The Prevention/Care Management Portfolio funds grants to generate new knowledge about prevention and care management in areas including the care
of patients with multiple chronic conditions and the transformation of primary care.  The Portfolio has funded exploratory grants in this area
to help guide the appropriate prioritization, timing, and provision of therapeutic and preventive services in individuals with multiple chronic
conditions. This work will improve the ability of clinicians, patients and policy makers to identify those interventions that provide the
greatest benefit to patients with multiple conditions and help patients make informed decisions about health care choices.  Funding under the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) through the Office of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services also supplement
current efforts in this area.

In addition, the Portfolio and AHRQ have identified the need for research that will identify, describe and disseminate the best methods for
transforming the structure, characteristics and function of primary care so that practices can improve quality, reduce costs, and better satisfy
the needs of patients and families. The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) has been proposed by a broad coalition of providers, employers,
insurers and others as a model for improving primary care in the U.S., and numerous health care systems and medical groups are currently
attempting to transform their primary care practices into PCMHs.  These attempts go beyond incremental quality improvement activities and aim
toward whole practice redesign. 

AHRQ supports systematic studies of on-going, successful efforts to transform the delivery of primary care in the U.S.  This research will
validate that healthcare quality, as reflected in quantifiable changes in process and outcome measures, has in fact improved subsequent to
practice transformation into a PCMH, and will study in detail how the transformation occurred and its impact on costs of care and actual patient
and provider experiences/satisfaction.  In addition, investigators will study the organizational and contextual factors within practices that
have influenced the success of these efforts. 

Knowledge Synthesis & Dissemination

The Portfolio fulfills AHRQ’s congressionally mandated role to convene the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) to conduct
scientific evidence reviews of a broad array of clinical preventive services (screening, counseling and preventive medication) and to develop
recommendations for the health care community.  The Portfolio provides ongoing administrative, sceintific, technical, and dissemination support
to the USPSTF, which is an independent panel of nationally renowned, non-federal experts in prevention and evidence-based medicine comprising
primary care clinicians (e.g., internists, pediatricians, family physicians, gynecologists/obstetricians, nurses, and health behavior
specialists) with strong science backgrounds.

The USPSTF develops and releases evidence-based recommendations for the health care provider community to improve the delivery of appropriate
preventive services in the clinical setting. The multi-year process of generating a recommendation begins with a solicitation of topic
nominations through a Federal Register notice and consultation with stakeholders.  The USPSTF prioritizes nominated topics for review and for
updating.  USPSTF recommendations are based on evidence reviews conducted by Evidence-based Practice Centers and in-house by AHRQ staff.

Portfolio staff have been working with the USPSTF to increase the transparency of its scientific and deliberative processes with the overarching
goals of assuring integrity and fidelity of process and of aligning more closely with the processes developed by AHRQ for its Effective
Healthcare Program.   AHRQ staff will continue and expand this work to include several opportunities for public comment on draft USPSTF
products.  These efforts will be in coordination with final outcomes of current pending congressional legislation regarding the USPSTF.

In 2009, the USPSTF released new  recommendations  for  12  clinical  preventive  services,  and  work  was  either  initiated  or  continued  on
approximately 30 topics.  USPSTF recommendations provide one essential foundation for dissemination, implementation, and  integration  activities
within the portfolio; however, the Portfolio supports the development of tools, materials and technical assistance to  improve  the  delivery  of
evidence-based primary care.  For example, Portfolio staff created the electronic Preventive Services Selector tool (ePSS).  Available both as  a
Web-based tool and in PDA-downloadable form, the ePSS provides clinical decision support in user-friendly formats, allowing clinicians to  search
for USPSTF recommendations based on specific patient characteristics or to browse recommendations by topic.

The Portfolio also supports work to create, enhance or evaluate health materials for use in primary care via electronic health records or other
electronic tools.  Electronic health records (EHRs) have the capacity to deliver not only patient education materials, but also to be an
educational tool for clinicians to use interactively with patients.  However, approximately one-third of American adults have limited health
literacy. This means, for example, that they are unable to determine a proper dose of a medication based on an over-the-counter label. Limited
health literacy can also affect comprehension of verbal communication. EHRs can include features that encourage clinicians to confirm patient
understanding, such as a field that indicates patient’s comprehension level as well as anatomical drawing or interactive visuals that clinicians
could use while educating patients about their condition.

Implementation & Use of Knowledge

The Portfolio supports the development of tools, materials and technical assistance to facilitate health systems redesign in primary care
settings. Focus areas include: health systems redesign, self management support; linking clinical practices with community resources; and, care
coordination.

Health Systems Redesign
In conjunction with the Agency’s Health Information Technology (Health IT) Portfolio, the P/CM Portfolio supports primary care transformation
through exploration of the model of the patient-centered medical home. Examples of this work include developing a public website on the patient-
centered medical home aimed at policy makers and health service researchers and the creation of a foundational white paper on integrating mental
health and primary care within the PCMH. 

Self Management Support
Self-management support programs are expected to reduce costly health crises and improve health outcomes for chronically ill patients with
conditions such as asthma, cardiovascular disease, depression, diabetes, heart failure, and migraine headaches.  A successful self-management
support program has the potential to change individuals’ behavior, improve health outcomes, decrease the burden of chronically ill patients on
the health care system, and be a cornerstone of primary care transformation. However, many practicing primary care clinicians have not had the
opportunity to develop skills in self-management support or the opportunity to implement this aspect of the Expanded Care Model in their work.
The Portfolio is producing multimedia resources for primary care clinicians to help them learn about self-management support, develop their self-
management support skills and provide patients with self management guidance. This project will support both prevention and care management
related goals, bridging the two parts of the Portfolio.

The Portfolio will continue work with federal partners to help understand and test what electronic health record elements can assist in
improving the consistent delivery and documentation of self management support. Two challenges related to self management support are what
elements can be integrated into the EHR to help prompt and document self management support (e.g., goal setting, action planning, follow-up),
and what key measure(s) should be collected from the electronic record to drive performance improvement.  In addition, this work will explore
the development and use of personal health records to support self management.

Linking Clinical Practices with Community Resources
The Portfolio supports work to develop the evidence base for and implementation of linkages between clinical practices and community/public
health resources to promote healthy behaviors and prevent disease.  This work will build on a summit in 2008 AHRQ co-sponsored with the American
Medical Association and the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, aimed at encouraging collaboration, coordination, and
integration among health care providers, institutions, and community resources. Participants examined successful partnerships at health system,
community, and State levels, and identified strategies to overcome partnership barriers. In order to facilitate ongoing collaboration among
summit participants and to disseminate their work to a larger audience, a special resource page was added to AHRQ’s Web-based Innovations
Exchange (http://www.innovations.ahrq.gov).  Innovation profiles and tools from the Innovations Exchange collection address promoting healthy
behaviors and linkages among health care delivery, public health, and community-based interventions.

In 2010, AHRQ will host a second, national Summit involving stakeholders from public health, community services, and primary care.  The
Portfolio will make additional investments to advance knowledge in this area.

Care Coordination
In 2009, in response to stakeholder input, AHRQ began an 18-month foundational phase in a long-term process to develop quality measures for care
coordination in ambulatory primary care settings.  The work began with development of a measurement framework and a detailed, systematic review
of potential existing measures.  In 2010, the first phase of this work will be completed and AHRQ may initiate the second planned phase of this
work—developing and validating specifications for a small set of measures.  AHRQ has a goal of launching a measure dissemination initiative in
2011 or 2012.

Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center
Under this IDIQ Multi award contract, the contractor(s) will establish a Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center (PCM TAC),  It
is anticipated that the PCM TAC will help build the Nation’s capacity for effective work in the prevention of disease and the provision of care
for chronic conditions, with a special emphasis on improving primary care and building successful collaborations across the clinical services,
public health, and community sectors. The PCM TAC will use multiple methods (including direct technical assistance, knowledge transfer, health
communications strategy development, and dissemination of tools, resources, and research results) to maximize the benefit to health care
systems, primary care practices, primary care clinicians and patients of investments made by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
(AHRQ) and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) in prevention and care management research, dissemination, and implementation
initiatives.

A general description of each domain follows.  Offerors should be aware that many projects assigned under specific task orders will draw across
two or all three domains.  Therefore, it is imperative that the offeror has adequate expertise and skill in each domain and that the offeror can
assure coordination and cooperation across divisions/departments within its own organization as well as with Subcontractors.  Examples of
several projects that span the three domains also are described below.


1. Administration
This domain encompasses many activities associated with developing an operations plan for the Prevention/Care Management Portfolio.  The
operations plan for the Portfolio will build on internal strategic planning, and will include: gathering input from external stakeholders
regarding the strategy and direction of the Portfolio, and synthesizing and disseminating the work of the Portfolio through a comprehensive
inventory and subsequent Annual Reports.  Dissemination may include multiple products designed and written for different audiences.

The Contractor(s) may be asked to coordinate numerous complex tasks across multiple organizations including other contractors, Federal agencies,
grantees and national organizations.


2. Research &  Project Development
This domain represents a broad range of activities that will support AHRQ in conducting research and developing programs.  Examples of potential
projects include, but are not limited to:


     a. Providing direct technical assistance to groups and individuals, including: assisting with the development, management, and
        dissemination of public use data; and facilitating interdisciplinary quality improvement work in primary care organizations and settings


     b. Conducting formal external evaluations of programs, tools, and materials


     c. Conducting health services research that may involve both qualitative and quantitative methodologies, and that may require preparation
        of requests for approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and approval from relevant Institutional Review Boards (IRBs)


     d. Critically evaluating, synthesizing and organizing large volumes of information, which may include assessing and rating evidence from
        studies that vary widely in content and methodology

3. Communications
This domain represents a broad range of activities and skills that focus on communicating the results of Portfolio work to multiple target
audiences; engaging multiple stakeholders at various stages of the Portfolio’s work; and conducting educational opportunities for partners
involved in Portfolio projects.  Potential audiences include primary care clinicians, policy makers, researchers and consumers/patients.
Examples of potential projects include, but are not limited to:

   a. Providing specialized technical assistance in communications including: graphic elements and messaging; audience analysis and segmentation
      strategies; pre-testing of materials with multiple target audiences; and analysis of distribution (or communication) channels


   b. Disseminating technical information to multiple audiences through multiple channels (print, electronic, etc.)


   c. Developing and facilitating learning collaborations including: developing curricula; identifying faculty; developing teaching modules based
      on adult education techniques; assisting learner groups with strategic planning; and providing logistical support to each group such as
      creating and maintaining a shared Web portal, scheduling and conducting webinars, etc.




Many task orders will describe a project that covers all 3 domains.  This is why it is essential that the Contractor(s) have extensive
experience in each domain.  For example, the Contractor(s) may be asked to help the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force increase the
transparency of its work.  This one project may include the following tasks:

      Administration: Creating the processes associated with posting draft USPSTF products and disposition tables.  Any new processes would have
      to take into account the roles of the USPSTF members, Evidence-based Practice Centers, official Partners to the USPSTF and AHRQ.  The
      Contractor(s) also could be asked to facilitate an open meeting of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.
      Research: Based on information gathered from other transparency efforts, advising AHRQ on options for the design of the database and web
      forms for collecting public comments, managing the collection of public comments, providing scientific review and synthesis of public
      comments. This may include making recommendations to AHRQ Medical Officers on how draft documents should be revised to address the major
      themes/issues observed in the public comments and assisting the Medical Officers in the creation of disposition tables that provide
      information about how the comments were handled and addressed, or actually creating the disposition tables.


      Communication: Providing technical assistance regarding the design elements of and messaging for a web form for collecting comments from
      multiple stakeholders; creating a marketing plan to advertise the opportunity for public comment to multiple stakeholders; and advising
      AHRQ staff on how to display disposition tables and/or revisions to draft documents.

Task order contract research conducted under federal auspices, and products and deliverables generated by such research, must meet a number of
requirements, including those associated with compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
and regulations governing research involving human subjects.  It is expected that the Contractor(s) will have expertise within the project team
that they propose in response to an RFTO, and will not require additional support or technical assistance in fulfilling any such requirements.

The Contractor(s) will be required to designate a point person or small team to assume responsibility for: meeting contract requirements;
coordinating tasks and activities; assuring ongoing engagement of operational and quality improvement leadership; assuring quality control of
task order deliverables; and maintaining effective communication with AHRQ staff through the period of performance of the master contract.
Additionally, Contractors will need to propose specific project leads for individual task orders.  The overall master contract lead and
individual task order leads may or may not be the same individuals.
The Contractor(s) shall communicate with their task order officers on a regular basis (monthly/bimonthly/quarterly) by submitting progress
reports and deliverables through AHRQ’s Research Reporting System (ARRS).  In addition, the Contractor(s) and task order officers are expected
to meet by phone or in person at regular, specified intervals. The Contractor(s) shall communicate with other contractors in order to coordinate
projects.  It is highly unlikely that any work assigned under a specific task order will require the Contractor to work completely independently
of AHRQ.

The Contractor(s) shall assist AHRQ staff in their monitoring and tracking responsibilities by assuring the timely submission of high-quality
deliverables.  For each task order, progress reports and other deliverables must be submitted electronically at regular, specified intervals.

                                                        SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING

The contractor shall mark each delivery/deliverable with the Contractor’s Name; Contract and Task Order number; Item number; and quantity
indicating partial, full or final shipment.  Note as appropriate on the face page of each deliverable, or on the binding, (1) one volume only,
or (2) volume 1 of 2.


                                                      SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

E.1   INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

      a.    The contracting officer or the duly authorized representative will perform inspection and acceptance of materials and services to be
           provided.

      b.    For the purpose of this SECTION the Government Project Officer is the authorized technical representative of the contracting
           officer.

      c.    Inspection and acceptance will be performed at:

                 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                 540 Gaither Road
                 Rockville, Maryland  20850

E.2   CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

      This contract incorporates the following clause by reference, with the same force and effect as if it were given in full text.

      FAR Clause No.                         Title and Date

      52.246-5                               Inspection of Services-Cost Reimbursement (April 1984)



                                             SECTION F - PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE


F.1   CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

      This contract incorporates the following clause by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text


      FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES

      FAR Clause No.                               Title and Date

      52.242-15                              Stop Work Order (AUG 1989)
                                             Alternate I (APRIL 1984)
F.2   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

      The Government anticipates the ordering period shall begin on or about August 1, 2010 and run through July 31, 2015.

F.3   DELIVERABLE  SCHEDULE

The items specified for delivery below are subject to the review and approval of the Government Task Order Officer before final acceptance.
Items #1 and 2 shall be provided to the Task Order Officer as electronic and hard copy.  The contractor shall be required to make revisions
deemed necessary by the Task Order Officer.
The Contractor shall produce the following scheduled reports/deliverables in the amount, and within the time frame indicated.  Complete delivery
instructions will be provided with each Task Order awarded.

|ITEM       |DESCRIPTION                                                  |QUANTITY/DELIVERY DATE                                 |
|1          |Administrative, progress, and financial reports              |As specified in each task order                        |
|2          |All other deliverables identified in each task order         |As specified in each task order                        |
|3          |Subcontracting Report for Individual  Contracts              |April 30                                               |
|           |via eSRS                                                     |October 30                                             |
|4          |Summary subcontractor Report                                 |30 days after the close of the Federal Fiscal Year     |
|           |via  eSRS                                                    |(September 30)                                         |
|5          |Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Report            |1 copy at contract completion                          |

In addition, one electronic and one hard copy of final reports and all other deliverables shall be submitted to the Project Officer at the
address below, and the Contracting Specialist shall receive one copy of each progress report and final report/final deliverable.

      Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
      Attn:  Contracting Specialist
      Office of Performance Accountability, Resources and Technology (OPART)
      Division of Contracts Management
      540 Gaither Road, Suite 4000
      Rockville, MD 20850.
All reports and presentation materials must be compliant with Section 508 standards.
This language is applicable to Statements of Work (SOW) or Performance Work Statements (PWS) generated by the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) that require a contractor or consultant to (1) produce content in any format that could be placed on a Department-owned or
Department-funded Web site; or (2) write, create or produce any communications materials intended for public or internal use; to include
reports, documents, charts, posters, presentations (such as Microsoft PowerPoint) or video material that could be placed on a Department-owned
or Department-funded Web site.

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) requires Federal agencies to purchase electronic and information technologies
(EIT) that meet specific accessibility standards. This law helps to ensure that federal employees with disabilities have access to, and use of,
the information and data they need to do their jobs. Furthermore, this law ensures that members of the public with disabilities have the ability
to access government information and services.

There are three regulations addressing the requirements detailed in Section 508. The Section 508 technical and functional standards are codified
at 36 CFR Part 1194 and may be accessed through the Access Board’s Web site at http://www.access-board.gov. The second regulation issued to
implement Section 508 is the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). FAR Part 39.2 requires that agency acquisitions of Electronic and Information
Technology (EIT) comply with the Access Board’s standards. The entire FAR is found at Chapter 1 of the Code of Federal Register (CFR) Title 48,
located at http://www.acquisition.gov. The FAR rule implementing Section 508 can be found at http://www.section508.gov. The third applicable
regulation is the HHS Acquisition Regulation (HHSAR).

Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced for publication on or delivery via HHS Web sites - including text,
audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members of the public with disabilities to
access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including subcontractors[2]) or
consultants responsible for preparing or posting content intended for use on an HHS-funded or HHS-managed Web site must comply with applicable
Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents below. Remediation of
any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the SOW or PWS, shall be the responsibility
of the contractor or consultant retained to produce the Web-suitable content or communications material.

References:
      HHS Policy for Section 508 Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) (January 2005): http://www.hhs.gov/od/Final_Section_508_Policy.html


      HHS Section 508 Web site: http://508.hhs.gov/
      HHS ASPA Web Communications Division Web site:
      http://www.hhs.gov/web/policies/index.html
      US General Services Administration (GSA) Section 508 Web site: http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm

                                                     SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

G.1   KEY PERSONNEL

      Pursuant to the Key Personnel clause incorporated in Section I of this contract, the following individual(s) is/are considered to be
      essential to the work being performed hereunder:

      NAME                                               TITLE

      (TO BE COMPLETED AT TIME OF CONTRACT AWARD)

      The clause cited above contains a requirement for review and approval by the Contract Specialist of written requests for a  change  of  Key
      Personnel reasonably in advance of diverting any of these individuals from this contract.  Receipt of written requests  at  least  30  days
      prior to a proposed change is considered reasonable.

G.2   CONTRACTING OFFICER’S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE & TASK ORDER OFFICER

      The following Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (s) and Task Order Officer(s) will represent the Government for the purpose of
      this contract:

      NAME                                               TITLE

                                                   (TO BE COMPLETED AT TIME OF CONTRACT AWARD)
                                                   (TASK ORDER OFFICER DESIGNATION PER TASK ORDER)
      The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative and Task Order Officer is/are responsible for: (1) monitoring the contractor's technical
      progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the contracting officer changes in requirements; (2)
      interpreting the statement of work and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as  required;  (4)
      performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this contract; and (5) assisting  in  the  resolution  of  technical  problems
      encountered during performance.

      The Contracting Officer is the only person with authority to act as an agent of the Government under this contract.  Only  the  Contracting
      Officer has authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes in the statement of work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3)
      change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the contractor of any costs incurred during the performance of this  contract;
      or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this contract.

      The Government may unilaterally change its Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative or Task Order Officer designation

G.3   INVOICE SUBMISSION

      a.    INVOICE SUBMISSION

      Billing Instructions are attached and made part of this contract. Instructions and the following directions for the submission of  invoices
      must be followed to meet the requirements  of a "proper" payment request pursuant to FAR 32.9, and must be in accordance with  the  General
      Provisions clause 52.232-25 Prompt Payment (OCT 2003).
      Invoices/financing requests shall be submitted in an original and three copies to:

                 Contracting Specialist
                 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                 Division of Contracts Management
                 540 Gaither Road
                 Rockville, Maryland  20850


G.4   INFORMATION ON INVOICES

      (1)   The Contractor is REQUIRED to include the following minimum information on invoices:

            (a)  Contractor’s name and invoice date;
            (b)  Contract Number;
            (c)  Description and price of services actually rendered;
            (d)  Other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract;
            (e)  Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and complete mailing address or responsible official to whom payment is to be
                 sent; and
            (f)  The Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number.

      (2)   The Contractor shall furnish the following minimum information in support of costs submitted:

           (a)   Direct Labor – include all persons, listing the person’s name, title, number of hours or days worked, hourly rate (unburdened),
                 the total cost per person and a total amount of this category.
            (b)  Fringe Costs - show rate, base and total amount as well as verification/allowability or rate changes (when applicable);
            (c)  Overhead or Indirect Costs - show rate, base and total amount as well as verification/allowability or rate changes (when
                 applicable);
            (d)  Consultants - include the name, number of days or hours worked, a total amount per consultant and a total amount for this
                 category;
            (e)  Travel - include for each airplane or train trip taken the name of the traveler, date of travel, destination, the
                 transportation costs including ground transportation, shown separately, and per diem costs.  Other travel costs shall also be
                 listed.  A total amount for this category shall be provided;
            (f)  Subcontractors - include for each subcontractor, the same data that is being provided for the prime contractor.  A total number
                 for this category shall be provided.
            (g)  Data Processing - include all non-labor costs, i.e., computer time, equipment purchase, lease or rental, data tapes, etc.  A
                 total amount for this category shall be provided.
            (h)  Other - include a listing of all other direct charges to the contract, i.e., office supplies, telephone, equipment rental,
                 duplication, etc.
            (i)  Equipment Cost - itemize and identify separately from material costs including reference to approval in all cases;
            (j)  G&A - show rate, base and total as well as verification/allowability of rate changes (when applicable);
            (k)  Fee - show rate, base and total and;
            (l)   Current amount billed by individual cost element and total dollar amount and cumulative amount billed by individual cost
                 element and total dollar amount.

      (3)   Payment shall be made by:

                       PSC Finance
                       Parklawn Building, Room 16-23
                       5600 Fishers Lane
                       Rockville, Maryland 20857
                       Telephone Number (301) 443-6766

G.5   INDIRECT COST RATES and FEE

      In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.216-7(d)(2), Allowable Cost and Payment,  incorporated
      by reference in this contract, in Part II, Section I, the primary contact  point  responsible  for  negotiating  provisional  and/or  final
      indirect cost rates is the cognizant contracting official as set forth in FAR Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates.

      Reimbursement will be limited to the rates and time periods covered by the negotiated agreements.  The rates,  if  negotiated,  are  hereby
      incorporated without further action of the contracting officer.

G.6   ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER

      Pursuant to FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer  -  Central  Contractor  Registration  (OCT  2003),  the  Contractor  shall
      designate a financial institution for receipt of electronic funds transfer payments.  This designation shall be submitted, in  writing,  to
      the finance office designated in the contract.


                                                    SECTION H – SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

H.1   RELEASE AND USE AND COPYRIGHT OF DATA FIRST PRODUCED FROM WORK PERFORMED UNDER THIS CONTRACT

(a)  Release and Use – Data first produced in the performance of the Contract.  As permitted in FAR 52.227-17, the  provisions  of  this  Section
H.1 shall apply to any release or use of data first produced in the performance of the  Contract  and  any  analysis,  tools,  methodologies,  or
recorded product based on such data.

(b)  Release and Use – Requirements related to confidentiality and quality.  To ensure public trust in the confidentiality  protections  afforded
participants in Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)-supported research, AHRQ requires and monitors compliance  by  its  contractors
with section 934(c) of the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act) (42 U.S.C. 299c-3(c)), which states in part that

      No information, if the establishment or person supplying the information or described in it is identifiable,  obtained  in  the  course  of
      activities undertaken or supported under this title, may be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it  was  supplied  unless
      such establishment or person has consented...to its use for such other purpose.  Such information may not be published or released in other
      form if the person who supplied the information or who is described in it  is  identifiable  unless  such  person  has  consented...to  its
      publication or release in other form.

In addition to this requirement, section 933(b)(1) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 299c-2(b)(1)) requires AHRQ to assure that statistics  and  analyses
developed with Agency support are of high quality, comprehensive, timely, and adequately analyzed.  Accordingly --

      (1)  prior to the release or use of data based upon work performed under this Contract, the Contractor agrees to consult with  the  Project
      and Contract Officers regarding the proposed release or use.  AHRQ will, within 6 months  of  the  receipt  of  any  proposed  publication,
      presentation, or any other disclosure of materials derived from information collected or produced for this contract,  use  best  effort  to
      review the proposed report, presentation, or other text to assure:


        (A) Identifiable information is being used exclusively for the purpose(s) for which it was supplied or appropriate  consents  have  been
           obtained;
        (B) The confidentiality promised to individuals and establishments  supplying  identifiable  information  or  described  in  it  is  not
           violated; and
        (C)      The quality of statistical and analytical work meets the statutory standards cited above.


      The Contractor will in good faith consider, discuss, and respond to any comments or suggested  modifications  that  are  provided  by  AHRQ
      within two months of receiving the proposed release or use.

      (2)  The Contractor must satisfy conditions (1) (A) and (1) (B).  At the conclusion of any  consultation  required  by  paragraph  (b)  (1)
      above, if AHRQ and the Contractor cannot agree that a proposed use or release satisfies condition (1) (C) above:


      (A)   the research professional at the Contractor responsible for the quality of the Contract work will, in advance of any release  or  use
           of such data, certify in a letter to the Contracting Officer what differences of opinion cannot be resolved regarding  the  statutory
           standards referenced in condition (1) (C) and the basis for Contractor assertions that these standards have been met; and
       (B)  The Contractor must print prominently on the release or other product, or on any portion that is released, or state prior to any oral
           presentation or release of such material, the following disclaimer:

           THIS presentation/ publication/or other product is derived from work supported under  a  contract  with  THE  AGENCY  FOR  HEALTHCARE
           RESEARCH AND QUALITY (AHRQ) (#   ).  However, this presentation/ publication/or other product HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED by the agency.


      (3)   If the AHRQ COTR does not provide written conditions or approvals by the end of the  six  month  period  following  submission  of  a
      request to publish a report or to make a presentation or other disclosure of material derived from work performed for AHRQ-funded research,
      the Contractor may publish, present, or otherwise disclose this material subject to the  restrictions  of  Section  903(c).   However,  the
      Contractor must print prominently on the report or any portion of it which is released, or state prior to any oral or other  disclosure  of
      the material derived from work performed under this contract, the following disclaimer:


           THIS presentation/ publication/or other product is derived from work supported under  a  contract  with  THE  AGENCY  FOR  HEALTHCARE
           RESEARCH AND QUALITY (AHRQ) (#   ).  However, this presentation/ publication/or other product HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED by the agency.

(c)  Required Statement Regarding Protected Information.  On all written material or other recorded products, or preceding  any  presentation  or
other oral disclosure, release or use of material based on identifiable  information  obtained  in  the  course  of  work  performed  under  this
contract, the Contractor shall make the following statement:

           IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION ON WHICH THIS REPORT, PRESENTATION, OR OTHER FORM OF DISCLOSURE  IS  BASED  IS  PROTECTED  BY  FEDERAL  LAW,
           SECTION 934(c) OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT, 42 U.S.C. 299c-3(c).  NO IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION ABOUT ANY INDIVIDUALS OR  ENTITIES
           SUPPLYING THE INFORMATION OR DESCRIBED IN IT MAY BE KNOWINGLY USED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR PRIOR CONSENT.   ANY  CONFIDENTIAL
           IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT OR PRESENTATION THAT IS KNOWINGLY DISCLOSED IS DISCLOSED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE FOR WHICH  IT
           WAS PROVIDED.


(d)  Copyright – Data first produced in the performance of the Contract.  Subject to the terms of this  Section  regarding  release  and  use  of
data, AHRQ, through its Contract Specialist, will grant permission under FAR 52.227-17(c) (1)  (i)  to  the  Contractor  to  establish  claim  to
copyright subsisting in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance  of  this  contract  that
are submitted for publication in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings or similar works.  When  claim  to  copyright
is made, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notice of 17  U.S.C.  401  or  402  and  acknowledgment  of  Government  sponsorship
(including contract number) to the data when such data are delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or  deposited  for
registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office.  In such circumstances, the Contractor hereby agrees to grant to AHRQ, and  others
acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide  license  for  all  such  data  to  reproduce,  prepare  derivative  works,
distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of AHRQ.  A  description  of  this  license  will  be
incorporated into the copyright notices required above.

(e)  Subcontracts.  Whenever data, analyses, or other recorded products are  to  be  developed  by  a  subcontractor  under  this  Contract,  the
Contractor must include the terms of H.1 in the subcontract, without substantive alteration, with a provision  that  the  subcontractor  may  not
further assign to another party any of its obligations to the Contractor.  No  clause  may  be  included  to  diminish  the  Government’s  stated
requirements or rights regarding release or use of products or materials based on data derived from work performed under this contract.

H.2    LACK OF COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR RELEASE OR USE

Failure to submit materials for statutorily mandated confidentiality and statistical and analytic quality reviews as required by Section  H.1  of
this contract will be viewed as a material violation and breach of the terms of  this  contract,  as  the  requirements  of  this  provision  are
necessary for AHRQ to carry out its statutory  obligations  and  responsibilities.   Records  of  the  Contractor's  performance,  including  the
Contractor's performance pertaining to this Contract, will be maintained in AHRQ's Contracts Management Office  and  will  be  considered  as  an
element of past performance which is part of all subsequent competitive contract proposal reviews.

H.3   SUBCONTRACTS

The contractor must include in any subcontracts executed or used to provide the support specified in this  contract  the  terms  of  requirements
H.1, H.2, H.3, and H.6.   These requirements are to be included without substantive alteration, and no clause may be included to  diminish  these
requirements.

Award of any subcontract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer upon review of the supporting  documentation  as  required
by FAR Clause 52.215-12, Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data, of the General Clauses incorporated into  this  contract.   A  copy  of  the  signed
subcontract shall be provided to the Contract Specialist.

H.4   LATE PAYMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENT

Late payment of debts owed the Government by the Contractor, arising from whatever cause, under this contract/order  shall  bear  interest  at  a
rate or rates to be established in accordance with the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual.  For purposes of this provision,  late  payments  are
defined as payments received by the Government more than 30 days after the Contractor has been notified in writing  by  the  Contracting  Officer
of:

      a.    The basis of indebtedness.
      b.    The amount due.
      c.    The fact that interest will be applied if payment is not received within 30 days from the date of mailing of the notice.
      d.    The approximate interest rate that will be charged.

H.5   PRIVACY ACT

The Privacy Act clauses cited in Section I (FAR 52.224-1 and 52.224-2) are applicable to the consultant records kept by the  Contractor  for  the
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.

You are hereby notified that the Contractor and its employees are subject to criminal penalties for violations of the Act (5 U.S.C.  552a(i))  to
the same extent as employees of the Department.  The Contractor shall assure that each Contractor employee is aware that he/she can be  subjected
to criminal penalties for violations of the Act.  Disposition instructions:  Records are to be destroyed after  contract  closeout  is  completed
and final payment is made and in accordance with IRS regulations.

H.6   SALARY RATE LIMITATION


Pursuant to the applicable Public Law cited in the table below, the Contractor shall not use contract funds  to  pay  the  direct  salary  of  an
individual at a rate in excess of the salary level in effect on the date the expense is incurred as shown in the table below.

For purposes of the salary limitation, the terms direct salary, salary, and institutional base salary have the same meaning and are  collectively
referred to as direct salary in this clause. An individual's  direct  salary  is  the  annual  compensation  that  the  Contractor  pays  for  an
individual's appointment whether that individual's time is spent on  research,  teaching,  patient  care,  or  other  activities.  Direct  salary
excludes any income that an individual may be permitted to earn outside of  duties  to  the  Contractor.   Direct  salary  also  excludes  fringe
benefits, overhead, and general and administrative expenses (also referred to as indirect costs or facilities and administrative [F&A] costs).

The salary rate limitation also applies to individuals performing under subcontracts.  However, it does not apply to fees  paid  to  consultants.
If this is a multiple-year contract, it may be subject to unilateral modification by the Contracting Officer to ensure that an individual is  not
paid at a rate that exceeds the salary rate limitation provision established in the  HHS  appropriations  act  in  effect  when  the  expense  is
incurred regardless of the rate initially used to establish contract funding.

|Public law                                                        |Period Covered                    |Salary Limitation                                 |
|                                                                  |                                  |(based on Executive Level I)                      |
|Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010                             |1/1/10 – Until revised            |$199,700                                          |
|Public Law 111-117                                                |                                  |                                                  |



H.7   PRO-CHILDREN ACT of 1994

The Pro-Children Act of 1994, P.L. 103-227, imposes restrictions on smoking where certain federally  funded  children’s  services  are  provided.
P.L. 103-227 states in pertinent part:

“PHS strongly encourages all grant and contract recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and to promote the non-use of all tobacco  products.
 In addition, P.L. 103-227, the Pro-Children Act of 1994, prohibits smoking in certain facilities (or in some cases, any portion of  a  facility)
in which regular or routine education, library, day care, health care or early childhood development services are provided to children.”


H.8   PROTEST

No protest under FAR Subpart 33.1 is authorized in connection with the issuance or proposed issuance of a Task Order under this  contract  except
on grounds that the order increases the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract.


H.9   SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE

This language is applicable to Statements of Work (SOW) or Performance Work Statements (PWS) generated by the  Department  of  Health  and  Human
Services (HHS) that require a contractor or consultant to (1) produce content in any format  that  could  be  placed  on  a  Department-owned  or
Department-funded Web site; or (2) write, create or produce any communications  materials  intended  for  public  or  internal  use;  to  include
reports, documents, charts, posters, presentations (such as Microsoft PowerPoint) or video material that could be placed  on  a  Department-owned
or Department-funded Web site.

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) requires Federal agencies to  purchase  electronic  and  information  technologies
(EIT) that meet specific accessibility standards. This law helps to ensure that federal employees with disabilities have access to, and  use  of,
the information and data they need to do their jobs. Furthermore, this law ensures that members of the public with disabilities have the  ability
to access government information and services.

There are three regulations addressing the requirements detailed in Section 508. The Section 508 technical and functional standards are  codified
at 36 CFR Part 1194 and may be accessed through the Access Board’s Web site at  http://www.access-board.gov.  The  second  regulation  issued  to
implement Section 508 is the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). FAR Part 39.2 requires that agency acquisitions of Electronic and  Information
Technology (EIT) comply with the Access Board’s standards. The entire FAR is found at Chapter 1 of the Code of Federal Register (CFR)  Title  48,
located at http://www.acquisition.gov. The FAR rule implementing Section 508 can be found  at  http://www.section508.gov.  The  third  applicable
regulation is the HHS Acquisition Regulation (HHSAR).

Regardless of format, all Web content or communications materials produced for publication on or delivery via HHS Web  sites  -  including  text,
audio or video - must conform to applicable Section 508 standards to allow federal employees and members  of  the  public  with  disabilities  to
access information that is comparable to information provided to persons without disabilities. All contractors (including  subcontractors  1)  or
consultants responsible for preparing or posting content intended for use on an HHS-funded or HHS-managed Web site must  comply  with  applicable
Section 508 accessibility standards, and where applicable, those set forth in the referenced policy or standards documents below. Remediation  of
any materials that do not comply with the applicable provisions of 36 CFR Part 1194 as set forth in the SOW or PWS, shall be  the  responsibility
of the contractor or consultant retained to produce the Web-suitable content or communications material.
1 - Prime contractors may enter into subcontracts in the performance of a Federal contract, but the prime remains obligated to  deliver  what  is
called for under the contract.
References:
      HHS Policy for Section 508 Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) (January 2005): http://www.hhs.gov/od/Final_Section_508_Policy.html


      HHS Section 508 Web site: http://508.hhs.gov/
      HHS ASPA Web Communications Division Web site:
      http://www.hhs.gov/web/policies/index.html
      US General Services Administration (GSA) Section 508 Web site: http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm


H.10        SECURITY AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS

1. Adherence to security and privacy policy.  The Contractor shall comply with all Federal and Department of  Health  and  Human  Services  (HHS)
   security and privacy guidelines in effect at the time of the award of this contract.  A list of applicable United States (U.S.)  laws,  Office
   of Management and Budget (OMB) requirements, HHS policies, standards and guidance, and Federal Government Computer Security guidelines can  be
   located on the Secure One HHS website. The Contractor shall perform periodic reviews to ensure compliance with all  information  security  and
   privacy requirements.  The Contractor shall make all system information and documentation produced in support of the Contract available to the
   agency and agency auditors upon request.


2. Protection of sensitive information.  The Contractor shall ensure that sensitive information is protected by information security and  privacy
   controls commensurate with the risk associated with the potential loss or compromise of this information.   For  purposes  of  this  contract,
   information is sensitive if the loss of confidentiality or integrity could be expected to have  a  serious,  severe  or  catastrophic  adverse
   effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, or individuals.[3]  Further, the loss of sensitive information confidentiality  or
   integrity could: (i) cause a significant or severe degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is unable
   to perform its primary functions or the effectiveness of the functions is significantly reduced; (ii) result in significant or major damage to
   organizational assets; (iii) result in significant or major financial loss; or (iv) result in significant,  severe  or  catastrophic  harm  to
   individuals.


   Personally identifiable information (PII) is a subset of sensitive information and is defined  as  data  which  can  potentially  be  used  to
   identify, locate, or contact an individual, or potentially reveal the activities, characteristics, or other details about  a  person.[4]   PII
   shall receive a level of protection commensurate with the risk associated with the loss or compromise of sensitive information.


3. Sensitive information on public systems.  The Contractor shall ensure that sensitive information is not stored, processed or transmitted on  a
   publicly-available system (via the Internet) without the appropriate controls  in  place  and  specific  authorization  from  the  AHRQ  Chief
   Information Officer (CIO).


4. Privacy requirements.  The Contractor shall conduct and maintain a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)  as  defined  by  Section  208  of  the  E-
   Government Act of 2002 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause 52-239-1, and required by HHS policy.  The PIA shall  be  completed  in
   accordance with HHS PIA guidance.  Periodic reviews shall be conducted to determine if a major change to the system has occurred, and if a PIA
   update is subsequently required.  If it is determined that an update is necessary, the Contractor shall make the necessary changes to the PIA.


5. The Contractor shall abide by all requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974 and FAR  Clause  52-239-1.   Pursuant  to  those  requirements,  the
   Contractor shall create and publish a System of Records Notice (SORN) in the Federal Register when required and shall publish an updated  SORN
   following a major change to the system, as directed by OMB Memorandum (M) 03-22, OMB Guidance for Implementing the Privacy Provisions of the E-
   Government Act of 2002, or subsequent replacement guidance. Annual requirements.  The Contractor shall  be  responsible  for  meeting  ongoing
   information security and privacy system requirements.  These include, but are not limited to, performing annual system testing, completing  an
   annual system self-assessment, and supporting quarterly and annual AHRQ FISMA reporting.  Additionally, AHRQ reserves the  right  to  test  or
   review the system security and privacy controls at any time.

6. Electronic communication.  All Contractor staff that have access to and use of HHS  electronic  mail  (e-mail)  must  identify  themselves  as
   contractors on all outgoing e-mail messages, including those sent in reply or forwarded to another user.   The  Contractor  shall  ensure  all
   contractor staff embed an e-mail signature ("AutoSignature") or an electronic business card ("V-card") within each  electronic  correspondence
   to automatically display "Contractor" in the signature.


7. Clearances.  The Contractor shall ensure all staff has the required level of security clearance  commensurate  with  the  sensitivity  of  the
   information being stored, processed, transmitted or otherwise handled by the System  or  required  to  perform  the  work  stipulated  by  the
   contract.  At the minimum, all Contractor staff shall be subjected to a Public Trust background check and be granted a Public Trust  clearance
   before access to the System or other HHS resources is granted.


8. Non-Disclosure.  The Contractor shall not release, publish, or disclose agency information to unauthorized personnel, and shall  protect  such
   information in accordance with the provisions of the following laws and any other pertinent laws and regulations governing the confidentiality
   of sensitive information:


       - 18 U.S.C. 641 (Criminal Code: Public Money, Property or Records)
       - 18 U.S.C. 1905 (Criminal Code: Disclosure of Confidential Information)
       - PL 96-511 (Paperwork Reduction Act)

   The Contractor shall ensure that each contractor employee who may have access to agency information under this  contract  shall  complete  and
   sign the Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information - Contractor Agreement (Non-Disclosure Agreement).  A copy of each signed and  witnessed
   Non-Disclosure Agreement shall be submitted to the COTR prior to performing any work under the contract.

References

1. Policy for Department-wide Information Security
2. HHS IRM Information Security Program Policy
3. HHS Personnel Security/Suitability Handbook
4. NIST SP 800-18, Rev. 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information Technology Systems
5. NIST SP 800-37, Guide for Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems:
6. NIST SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for a Federal Information System
7. NIST SP 800-60, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories, Volume I
8. NIST SP 800-60, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories, Volume II
9. NIST SP 800-64, Security Considerations in the Information System Development Life Cycle
10. FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems
11. Federal Information Processing Standards, Minimum Security, Requirements for a Federal Information System
12. Cryptographic Module Validation Program

H.11  OPTIONS

Pursuant to clause FAR 51.217-9 in section I, the Government may by unilateral contract modification, require the Contractor to perform any,  all
or none of the option periods of the Statement of Work as also defined in Section  C  of  this  contract.   If  the  Government  exercises  these
options, notice must be given at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of this contract.

H.12 TASK ORDERS
All work required under this contract will be authorized through the issuance of task orders (TOs).  TOs may be issued at  any  time  within  the
contract period.

TOs may often vary in terms of content, cost and duration.  Task orders will normally be cost-reimbursement type contracts.  Task Orders  may  be
negotiated and awarded on a cost reimbursement, firm fixed price or performance-based cost plus award fee basis.   By  GAO  rule,  the  set-aside
provisions of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 19.502-2(b) apply to competitions for  task  orders  issued  under  multiple-award  contracts.
Accordingly, when the need for a Task Order arises, the Government will first determine if it is possible  to  limit  the  competition  to  small
businesses within the domain if there is a reasonable expectation of receiving offers from at  least  two  capable,  responsible  small  business
concerns and if the award can be made at a fair market price.  Otherwise, it is anticipated that all contractors within the domain will be  given
the opportunity to compete for the Task Order.

TOs will average between an absolute Minimum of $25,000.00 and absolute Maximum of $25,000,000.00 and last between  twelve  (12)  to  twenty-four
(24) months with an average being eighteen (18) months.  There may be circumstances where the duration of task orders may be longer or  than  the
averages listed above.

Task Order Officer (TOO) will be designated for each TO issued under this contract.   The  TOO  will  function  as  principle  technical  liaison
between the Contracting Officer and the Contractor's Project Manager.

 Procedures for Issuance of TOs

1.    The determination of award of the TO will be based on technical merit, past performance, cost, and any other relevant factors.

2.    When a TO is to be awarded, the Government will solicit proposals from awardees based on those factors mentioned above.  The  TO  Statement
        of Work will be sent to those selected awardees and a cost proposal and a brief discussion of  technical  approach  shall  be  submitted
        within twenty (20) calendar days.  In unusual circumstances, contractors may be requested to reply within  a  shorter  amount  of  time.
        Oral proposals and streamlined procedures may be used in selecting the TO awardee

3.    Awardees need not be given an opportunity to be considered for a particular TO if the Contracting Officer determines that:

                  A.   The Agency need for such supplies or services is of such urgency that providing such opportunity would result in
              unacceptable delays;

                  B.   Only one such contractor is capable of providing such supplies or services required at the level of quality required
              because the supplies or services ordered are unique or highly specialized;

                  C.   The order should be issued on a sole-source in the interest of economy and efficiency as a logical follow-on to an order
              already issued under the contract, provided that all awardees were given a fair opportunity to be considered for the original
              order;

                  D.   It is necessary to place an order to satisfy a minimum guarantee; or


                      E.     When the dollar value of the order is less than $3000.

4.    Each TO proposal will be subject to review and negotiation and will not be effective until signed by both parties.

            Required content of TO proposals will usually include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:

            --offeror's understanding of TO objectives;

      --proposed approach to solving the problem in terms of major steps or subtasks of the proposed study program;

            --types of final products anticipated;

      --proposed staff by name and percentage of time each individual will be assigned to the work; and

            --management plan for conducting the TO.

5.    The cost and fee for each TO will be negotiated based on the labor rates set forth in Section B - Supplies or Services and on other
        cost/fee issues.

6.    Upon negotiation and agreement on the proposal submitted, the Contracting Officer shall issue for the signature of the Contractor a formal
        TO.  The Contractor shall not proceed with performance until the Contracting Officer has signed the TO and provided written approval to
        proceed.

7.    The Contractor's performance of the TO is subject to the terms and conditions  in  the  contract,  and  the  TO  may  be  modified  by  the
        Contracting Officer and ONLY the Contracting Officer.

8.    Protests ARE NOT authorized in connection with the issuance or proposed issuance of a TO except for a protest on the ground that the  order
        increases the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract under which the order is issued.

9.    The Contractor is not required to compete for a particular TO if it chooses not to do so, i.e., the Contractor may elect not  to  submit  a
        proposal on a particular TO.  Such election will not preclude the Contractor from an opportunity to submit proposals on future TOs.

10.       Requests for Task Orders will be issued by the Contracting Officer primarily
        electronically through e-mail or internet but they can be issues by facsimile or mail. Contractors are required to have internet or
        external electronic mail capabilities. Some RFTOs will contain quick turn-around due dates. When an RFTO is issued, the Contractor shall
        provide a proposal containing both technical and cost price information for performing the required services.
                                   PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

                                                                    SECTION I
                                                                 CONTRACT CLAUSES
                                               GENERAL CLAUSES FOR A COST-PLUS-A-FIXED-FEE CONTRACT

         CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEBRUARY 1998)

This contract incorporates the following clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full
text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far/

I.   FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES

FAR Clause No.                 Title and Date

52.203-3               Gratuities (APR 1984)

52.203-5               Covenant Against Contingent Fee (APR 1984)

52.203-6               Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government
                       (SEPT 2006)

52.203-7               Anti-Kickback Procedures  (JUL 1995)

52.203-8               Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal
                       or Improper Activity (JAN 1997)

52.203-10              Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997)

52.203-12              Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (SEP 2007)

52.203-13              Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (DEC 2008)

52.203-14              Display of Hotline Poster(s) (DEC 2007)
                       (Department of Health and Human Services Poster at:
                                     http://www.oig.hhs.gov/hotline/OIG_Hotline_Poster.pdf)

52.203-15   Whisteblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009)

52.204-4               Printing or Copying Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (AUG 2000)

52.204-7               Central Contractor Registration (APR 2008)

52.209-6               Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment
                       (SEPT 2006)

52.215-2               Audit and Records - Negotiation (MAR 2009)

52.215-8               Order of Precedence-Uniform Contract Format (Oct 1997)

52.215-10              Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997)
                       (applicable to contract actions over $550,000)

52.215-12              Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997)
                       (applicable to contract actions over $550,000)

52.215-15              Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (OCT 2004)

52.215-17              Wavier of Facilities Capital Cost of Money (OCT 1997)

52.215-18              Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions  (JUL 2005)

52.215-19              Notification of Ownership Changes (OCT 1997)

52.216-7               Allowable Cost and Payment (DEC 2002)

52.216-8               Fixed Fee (March 1997)

52.216-18                    Ordering (OCT 1995)

52.216-19                    Ordering Limitations   (OCT 1995)

52.216-22                         Indefinite Quantity (OCT 1995)

52.217-8               Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999)

52.217-9               Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000)

52.219-8               Utilization of Small Business Concerns  (MAY 2004)

52.219-9               Small Business Subcontracting Plan (APR 2008)
                       (Applicable to task Orders over $550,000)

52.219-14              Limitation on Subcontracting(DEC 1996)  (Applicable to
                       8(a) awards or if any portion is set aside for small businesses)

52.219-16              Liquidated Damages - Subcontracting Plan (JAN 1999)

52.222-2               Payment for Overtime Premiums (JUL 1990).  The amount in
                       paragraph (a) is "zero" unless different amount is separately
                       stated elsewhere in contract.

52.222-3               Convict Labor (JUNE 2003)

52.222-26              Equal Opportunity (APR 2002)

52.222-35              Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans. (SEPT 2006)

52.222-36              Affirmative Action for Workers With Disabilities (JUNE 1998)

52.222-37              Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans. (SEPT 2006)

52.222-39              Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (DEC 2004)
52.222-41              Service Contract Act of 1965 (NOV 2007)

52.222-50              Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009)

52.222-54              Employment Eligibility Verification (FEB 2009)

52.223-6               Drug Free Workplace (MAY 2001)

52.223-14              Toxic Chemical Release Reporting (AUG 2003)

52.224-1               Privacy Act Notification (APR 1984)

52.224-2               Privacy Act (APR 1984)

52.225-1               Buy American Act - Supplies  (FEB 2009)

52.225-13              Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUNE 2008)

52.227-1               Authorization and Consent  (DEC 2007)

52.227-2               Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copy-
                       Right Infringement (DEC 2007)
52.227-3               Patent Indemnity (APRIL 1984)

52.227-17              Rights in Data – Special Works (DEC 2007)

52.228-7                     Insurance-Liability to Third Persons (MAR 1996)

52.230-2               Cost Accounting Standards   (OCT 2008)

52.230-3               Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices (OCT 2008)

52.230-6               Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (MAR 2008)

52.230-7               Proposal Disclosure – Cost Accounting Practice Changes (APR 2005)

52.232-9               Limitation on Withholding of Payments (APRIL 1984)

52.232-17              Interest (OCT 2008)

52.232-18              Availability of Funds (APRIL 1984)

52.232-20              Limitation of Cost (APR 1984)

52.232-22              Limitation of Funds (APR 1984)    (This clause supersedes the      Limitation of Cost clause  found in the General
                       Clauses of this contract.)

52.232-23              Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986)

52.232-25              Prompt Payment (OCT 2008)

52.232-33              Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Central            Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)

52.233-1               Disputes (JULY 2002)

52.233-2               Service of Protest
52.233-3               Protest After Award (AUG 1996)  Alternate I (JUNE 1985)

52.233-4               Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004)

52.237-10              Identification of Uncompensated Overtime (Oct 1997)

52.239-1               Privacy or Security Safeguards  (AUG 1996)

52.242-1               Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (APRIL 1984)

52.242-3               Penalties for Unallowable Costs (MAY 2001)

52.242-4               Certification of Final Indirect Costs (Jan 1997)

52.242-13              Bankruptcy (JULY 1995)

52.243-2               Changes - Cost Reimbursement (AUG 1987) - Alternate II
                       (APRIL 1984)

52.244-2               Subcontracts (JUNE 2007)

52.244-5               Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996)

52.244-6               Subcontracts for Commercial Items

52.245-5               Government Property (Cost Reimbursement, Time-and-
                       Material, or Labor-Hour Contract (MAY 2004)

52.246-5               Inspection of Services-Cost Reimbursement (APRIL 1984)

52.246-23              Limitation of Liability-(FEB 1997)

52.248-1               Value Engineering (FEB 2000)

52.249-6               Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (MAY 2004)

52.249-14              Excusable Delays (APRIL 1984)

52.251-1               Government Supply Sources (APRIL 1984)

52.253-1               Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)


II.   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION
REGULATION (HHSAR)  (48 CFR CHAPTER 3) CLAUSES

HHSAR

Clause No.                    Title and Date

352.202-1              Definitions (JAN 2006)
                       Alternate h
352.223-70             Safety and Health (JAN 2006)

352.224-70             Confidentiality of Information (JAN 2006)

352.228-7              Insurance - Liability to Third Persons (DEC 2006)

352.232-9              Withholding of Contract Payments (JAN 2006)

352.233-70             Litigation and Claims (JAN 2006)


352.242-71             Final Decisions on Audit Findings (APRIL 1984)

352.270-1              Accessibility of Meetings, Conferences, and Seminars to
                       Persons With Disabilities (DEC 2006)

352.270-5              Key Personnel (JAN 2006)

352.270-6              Publication and Publicity (JAN 2006)

                    7.                         Paperwork Reduction Act (JAN 2006)






















                                              PART III- LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND ATTACHMENTS

                                                         SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

Attachment

1.    Past Performance Questionnaire and Contractor Performance Form
2.        Lobbying
3.    Proposal Intent Form
4.    Small Business Subcontracting Plan
5.        AHRQ Portfolios


NOTE: ALL ATTACHMENTS ARE LOCATED AT THE END OF THIS REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL.

                                                    PART IV.  REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

                                                                    SECTION K


 REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

K.1         HHSAR 315.204-5       Representations and Instructions

K.2.        FAR 52.204-8          Annual Representations and Certifications (FEB 2009)

K.3         FAR 52.209-5          Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (DEC 2008)

K.4.        FAR 52.222-21         Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999)

K.5.        FAR 52.230-1          Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification (JUNE 2000)

K.6.        FAR 15.406-2          Certificate of Current Cost and Pricing  Data

K.7.        P.L. 103-227          Certification Regarding Environmental
                                  Tobacco Smoke

K.8.        HHSAR 352.204         Certification of Filing and Payment of Federal
                                  Taxes.





K.l   REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

(a) Section K, Representations, certifications, and other statements of offerors.
(1) This section shall begin with the following and continue with the applicable representations and certifications:


TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFEROR:  (The Representations and Certifications must be executed by an individual authorized to bind the Offeror.) The
Offeror makes the following Representations and Certifications as part of its proposal.  (Check or complete all appropriate boxes or blanks on
the following pages.)



       (Name of Offeror)                            (RFP No.)



 (Signature of Authorized Individual)             (Date)



 (Typed Name of Authorized Individual)


NOTE:  The penalty for making false statements in offers is  prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001.

                                    K.2.  ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (FEB 2009) (FAR 52.204-8)

                                               Annual Representations and Certifications (FEB 2009)

  (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is __________________ [insert NAICS code].
    (2) The small business size standard is _____________ [insert size standard].
    (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract,
but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
  (b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (c) of this provision applies.
    (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the
ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (c) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual
representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:
      [  ] (i) Paragraph (c) applies.
      [  ] (ii) Paragraph (c) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation.

  (c) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications
Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the
offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are
current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced
for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes
identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or
certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
|FAR Clause #            Title            Date      Change                                    |
|      ____________        _________       _____      _______                                 |


  Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
certifications posted on ORCA.

                                                                (End of provision)


K. 3         Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Dec 2008)

  (A)(1) THE OFFEROR CERTIFIES, TO THE BEST OF ITS KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, THAT—
      (i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals—
        (A) Are __ are not ___ presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any
Federal agency;
        (B) Have ___ have not ___, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against
them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, state,
or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of
embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal
tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
        (C) Are ___ are not ___ presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of
any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision;
        (D) Have ___, have not ___, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount
that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
         (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
           (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally
determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is
not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
           (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when
full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
         (2) Examples.
           (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. § 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court
review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court
review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
           (ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a
notice under I.R.C. § 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further
appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the
underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is
not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised
all judicial appeal rights.
           (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. § 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is
in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

           (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed
under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
      (ii) The Offeror has ___ has not ___, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by
any Federal agency.
    (2) “Principal,” for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or
supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a subsidiary, division, or business
segment; and similar positions).

  This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or
  Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code.

  (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns
that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
  (c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award
under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror’s responsibility.
Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the
Offeror nonresponsible.
  (d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith,
the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which
is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
  (e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award.
If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the
Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default.

                                                                (End of provision)

K.4. PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES
                       (FEB 1999) (FAR 52.222-21)

(a)    "Segregated facilities," as used in this clause, means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms and wash rooms, restaurants and other
      eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment
      areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees, that are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated
      on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin because of written or oral policies or employee custom. The term does not include
      separate or single-user rest rooms or necessary dressing or sleeping areas provided to assure privacy between the sexes.

(b)   The Contractor agrees that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its
      establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where
      segregated facilities are maintained.  The Contractor agrees that a breach of this clause is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in
      this contract.

(c)   The Contractor shall include this clause in every subcontract and purchase order that is subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this
      contract.
                       (End of Clause)

K.5.  COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION
                                                            (FAR 52.230-1) (JUNE 2000)

NOTE: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments.  This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I
           through III.

           Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS)
           requirements applicable to any resultant contract.

           If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or
           modified CAS-coverage pursuant to 48CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6),respectively.

I.    Disclosure Statement - Cost Accounting Practices and Certification

      (a) Any contract in excess of $500,000 resulting from this solicitation, will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting
Standards Board (48 CFR, Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1.

      (b)  Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must,
as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202.  When required, the Disclosure Statement must be
submitted as a part of the offeror's proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing
the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal.  If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the
offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. Caution:
 In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be
deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data.

      (c)  Check the appropriate box below:

      [ ]   (1) Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement.
           The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i)
           original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to
           act in that capacity, as applicable, and (ii) one copy to the cognizant Federal auditor.

            (Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB
           DS-2, as applicable.  Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the
           Federal Acquisition Regulation.)

            Date of Disclosure Statement:__________________________
            Name and Address of Cognizant
             ACO or Federal official where filed:
           The offeror further certifies that practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost
           accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement.

      [ ]   (2) Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement.

           The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows:

           Date of Disclosure Statement:__________________________
            Name and Address of Cognizant
             ACO or Federal official where filed:
           The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost
           accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement.


      [ ]   (3) Certificate of Monetary Exemption.

           The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not
           receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling more than $25 million in the cost
           accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted.  The offeror further certifies that if such
           status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately.

      [ ]   (4) Certificate of Interim Exemption.

           The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this
           subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance
           with 48 CFR, Subpart 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement.  The offeror further certifies
           that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will
           immediately submit a review certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under subparagraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part
           I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement.
           Caution:  Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $25
           million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4).  Further, the exemption applies only in
           connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary
           exemption was exceeded.

II.   Cost Accounting Standards - Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage

      If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR, Subpart 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate
      by checking the box below.  Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of
      Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause.

      [ ]   The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR, Subpart 9903.201-
           2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because
           during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less
           than $25 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts or the offeror did not receive a single CAS-covered award
           exceeding $1 million.  The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the
           offeror will advise the
            Contracting Officer immediately.

Caution:  An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a
CAS-covered contract of $25 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered
prime contract or subcontract of $25 million or more.

III.  Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts

      The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(3) of the Cost
      Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts.

            [   ] Yes     [   ] No
                                                                (End of Provision)

ALTERNATE I (APR 1996)

      [ ]   (5) Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution.

           If the offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of 48 CFR 9903.202-1(f), is or will be required to
           submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete):


              [] (a) A Disclosure Statement filing Due Date of
                              has been established with the cognizant Federal agency.

             [] (b) The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the six month period ending            months after receipt of this award.

           Name and Address of cognizant ACO or Federal Official where Disclosure Statement is to be filed:


                                                               (END OF ALTERNATE I)










K.6.  CERTIFICATE OF CURRENT COST OR PRICING DATA
                                                                  (FAR 15.406-2)

                                                   CERTIFICATE OF CURRENT COST OR PRICING DATA

When cost or pricing data are required, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to execute a Certificate of Current Cost or  Pricing
Data using the format in this paragraph, and shall include the executed certificate in the contract file.

This is to certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the cost  or  pricing  data  (as  defined  in  Section  15.401  of  the  Federal
Acquisition Regulation(FAR) and required under FAR subsection 15.403-4) submitted, either actually or by specific identification, in writing,  to
the contracting officer or the contracting officer's representative in support  of             *  are  accurate,  complete,  and  current  as  of
   **.

This certification includes the cost or pricing data supporting any advance agreements and forward pricing rate agreements  between  the  offeror
and the Government that are part of the proposal.

FIRM

NAME                           Signature

TITLE

DATE OF EXECUTION***


   * Identify the proposal, request for price adjustment, or other submission involved, giving the         appropriate identifying number  (e.g.,
Request for Proposal number).

  ** Insert the day, month, and year when price negotiations were concluded and price agreement was reached or, if applicable,  an  earlier  date
agreed upon between the parties that is as   close as practicable to the date of agreement on price.

 *** Insert the day, month, and year of signing, which should be as close as practicable to the date when the price negotiations  were  concluded
and the contract price agreed to.

                       End of Certificate
K.7.   ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE

      The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant and contract recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and to promote the nonuse
      of all tobacco products.  In addition, Public Law 103-227, the Pro-Children Act of 1994, prohibits smoking in  certain  facilities  (or  in
      some cases, any portion of a facility) in which regular or routine education, library, day care, health care or early childhood development
      services are provided to children.

                                               CERTIFICATION REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE

Public Law 103-227, also known as the Pro-Children Act of 1994 (Act), requires that smoking not  be  permitted  in  any  portion  of  any  indoor
facility owned or leased or contracted for by an entity and used routinely or regularly for the provision of health, day  care,  early  childhood
development services, education or library services to children under the age of 18, if the  services  are  funded  by  Federal  programs  either
directly or through State or local governments, by Federal grant, contract, loan,  or  loan  guarantee.   The  law  also  applies  to  children's
services that are provided in indoor facilities that are constructed, operated, or maintained with such federal funds.  The law  does  not  apply
to children's services provided in private residences; portions of facilities used for inpatient drug or  alcohol  treatment;  service  providers
whose sole source of applicable Federal funds is Medicare or Medicaid; or facilities where WIC coupons are redeemed.  Failure to comply with  the
provisions of the law may result in the imposition of a civil monetary penalty of up to $1000 for each violation  and/or  the  imposition  of  an
administrative compliance order on the responsible entity.

By signing this certification, the offeror/contractor certifies that the submitted organization will comply with the requirements of the Act  and
will not allow smoking within any portion of any indoor facility used for the provision of services for children as defined by the Act.

The submitting organization agrees that it will require that the language of this certification  be  included  in  any  subawards  which  contain
provisions for children's services and that all subrecipients shall certify accordingly.

Organization:________________________________________________

Signature_________________________ Title_____________________

Date________________________________


K.8 Certification of Filing and Payment of Federal Taxes

As prescribed in 304.1202, “Solicitation Provision,” insert the following provision.  If the solicitation is a Request for Quotations,  the  term
“Quoter” may be substituted for “Offeror.”

                                        Certification of Filing and Payment of Federal Taxes (March 2008)

(a) The offeror certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief:

      1)  It has filed all Federal tax returns required during the three years preceding this certification;


      2) It has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and


      3)  It has not been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the
      subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or
      the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding.

(b) The signature of the offer is considered to be a certification by the offeror under this provision.


______________________________

Name of Offeror


______________________________

Signature of authorized individual




SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

L.1   SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) (FAR 52.252-1)

      This solicitation incorporates the following solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in
      full text.  Also, the full text of a clause may be assessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far/

      a.    Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Solicitation Provisions

            (1)  52.215-16   Facilities Capital Cost of Money (OCT 1997)

           (2)         52.215-20  Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 1997)

L.2   DATA UNIVERSAL NUMBERING (DUNS)  (OCT 2003) (FAR 52.204-6)

      (a)   The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4”
           followed by the DUNS number or “DUNS+4” that identifies the offeror’s name and address exactly as stated in the offer.  The DUNS
           number is a nine-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet Information Services. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character
           suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative
           Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see Subpart 32.11) for the same parent concern.

      (b)   If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one.

            (1)  An offeror may obtain a DUNSnumber—
                 (i) If located within the United States, by calling Dun and Bradstreet at 1-866-705-5711 or via the iInternet at
                 http://www.dnb.com; or
                 (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.

            (2)  The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information:
                 (i) Company legal business name.
                 (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized.
                 (iii) Company physical street address, city, state and Zip Code.
                 (iv) Company mailing address, sity, state and Zip Code (if separate from physical).
                 (v) Company telephone number.
                 (vi) Date the company was started.
                 (vii) Number of employees at your location.
                 (viii) Chief executive officer/ key manager.
                 (ix) Line of business (industry)
                 (X) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity).
                                  (End of provision)

L.3   INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION (MAY 2001) ALTERNATE I (JAN 2004)(FAR 52.215-1)
(a)   Definitions. As used in this provision --
      “Discussions” are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting  Officer’s  discretion,
      result in the offeror being allowed to revise its proposal.”
      “In writing,” “writing,” or “written” means any worded or numbered expression which can be read, reproduced, and  later  communicated,  and
      includes electronically transmitted and stored information.
      “Proposal modification” is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation’s  closing  date  and  time,  or  made  in  response  to  an
      amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award.
      “Proposal revision” is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed  by  a  Contracting
      Officer as the result of negotiations.
      “Time,” if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays,  Sundays,
      and legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next  working
      day.
(b)   Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors
      shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s).
(c)   Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.
      (1)   Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in  the  solicitation,  proposals  and  modifications  to
           proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages
           (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and
           (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and  address  of  the  offeror.  Offerors
           using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost  wrapper  with  the  information  in  paragraphs
           (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision.
      (2)   The first page of the proposal must show --
           (i)   The solicitation number;
           (ii)  The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the offeror (and electronic address if available);
           (iii)       A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation
                 and agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item;
           (iv)  Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate
                 on the offeror’s behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and
           (v)   Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by
                 evidence of that agent’s authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office.
      (3)   Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.
           (i)   Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modification, or revisions, so as to reach the Government office
                 designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time
                 for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due.
           (ii)  (A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact
                 time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the
                 Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and --
                 (1)   If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial
                       point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for
                       receipt of proposals; or
                 (2)   There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of
                       offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or
                 (3)    It is the only proposal received.
                       (B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the
                       Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.
           (iii)       Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that
                 installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or
                 statements of Government personnel.
           (iv)  If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the
                 office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements
                 preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same
                 time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.
           (v)   Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral
                 solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via
                 facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile
                 Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person
                 requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award.
                 (4)   Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items.
                 (5)   Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the
                       solicitation, and in U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is
                       included in the solicitation.
                 (6)   Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may
                       submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award.
                 (7)   Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer.
                 (8)   Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting
                       Officer.
(d)   Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover
      sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror).
(e)    Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public
      for any purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall --
      (1)   Mark the title page with the following legend:
           This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed -- in
           whole or in part -- for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror as a
           result of -- or in connection with -- the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose
           the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use information
           contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained
           in sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and
      (2)   Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend:
           Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal.
(f)   Contract award.
      (1)   The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror(s) whose
           proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the solicitation.
      (2)   The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government’s interest.
      (3)   The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.
      (4)   The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as
           described in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror’s initial proposal should contain the offeror’s best terms from a cost or price
           and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them
           to be necessary. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range
           exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in
           the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.
      (5)   The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or
           prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal.
      (6)   The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the
           Government’s best interest to do so.
      (7)   Exchanges with offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government.
      (8)   The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or
           subline items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line
           items is significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may
           be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government.
      (9)   If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance
           or schedule risk.
      (10)  A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time specified in the
           proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.
      (11)  If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:
           (i)   The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer.
           (ii)   The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance
                 information on the debriefed offeror.
           (iii)       The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.
           (iv)  A summary of the rationale for award.
           (v)   For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror.
           (vi)  Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth
                 in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.
                             (End of provision)

L.4   TYPE OF CONTRACT (APRIL 1984)(FAR 52.216-1)

      The Government contemplates award of a an Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity, Cost Reimbursement, multiple-award, task order-type
      contract for a period five years, resulting from this solicitation.

      It is anticipated that multiple Task Order Contract awards will be made from this solicitation and that the awards are estimated to be made
      in June 2010.

L.5   SINGLE OR MULTIPLE AWARDS (OCT 1995)(FAR 52.216-27)

      The Government may elect to award a single delivery order contract or task order contract or to award multiple delivery order contracts or
      task order contracts for the same or similar supplies or services to two or more sources under this solicitation.


L.6   SERVICE OF PROTEST (AUG 1996)(FAR 52.233-2)

      (a)   Protests, as defined in Section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of
           any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO) shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as
           follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:
                 Director, Division of Contracts Management
                 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                 540 Gaither Road
                 Rockville, Maryland  20850
      (b)   The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

L.7   POINT OF CONTACT FOR TECHNICAL INQUIRIES


The technical contact for additional information and answering inquiries is the Contract Specialist.  All questions regarding this solicitation
shall be in writing and received by the Contract Specialist no later than 12:00 noon ET on the date indicated on the front cover.   All
questions shall be e-mailed to the Contracting Specialist at randy.allison@ahrq.hhs.gov.

L.8   REFERENCE MATERIALS

      Offerors are directed to information about PCM-TAC at the following references;


      The U.S. Preventive Service Task Force (USPSTF) at; www.preventiveservices.ahrq.gov


      P/CM Sponsored funding announcements at;
      http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HS-10-009.html
      http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HS-10-001.html
      http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HS-10-002.html



L.9   GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

Introduction


      The following instructions will establish the acceptable minimum
      requirements for the format and contents of proposals.  Special attention is directed to the requirements for technical and business
      proposals to be submitted in accordance with these instructions:


      a.    Contract Type and General Provisions:  It is contemplated that an Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity, task order type contract
           will be awarded.  In addition to the special provisions of this request for proposal (RFP), any resultant contract shall include the
           general clauses applicable to the selected offeror's organization and type of contract awarded.  Any additional clauses required by
           Public Law, Executive Order, or procurement regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed contract, will be
           included.

      b.    Authorized Official and Submission of Proposal:  The proposal shall be signed by an official authorized to bind your (the offeror's)
           organization.  Your proposal shall be submitted in the number of copies, to the address, and marked as indicated in the cover letter
           of this solicitation.  Proposals will be typewritten, reproduced on letter sized paper and will be legible in all required copies.
           To expedite the proposal evaluation, all documents required for responding to the RFP should be placed in the following order:

            I.   TECHNICAL PROPOSAL:  See Technical Proposal Instructions for recommended format (L.10). Please mark as original or copy.

             II. PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION: See Past Performance Information Instructions for format (L.11)


            III. SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PLAN: See Small Disadvantaged Business Plan Instructions for format (L.12)   FOR
                 INFORMATION ONLY

             IV. BUSINESS PROPOSAL:  See Business Proposal Instructions for recommended format (L.13).

      c.    Separation of Technical, Past Performance Information, and Business Proposal:  The proposal shall be in 3 parts:

           (1) Technical Proposal; (2) Past Performance Information; (3) Small Business Participation Plan; and (4) Business Proposal.  Each of
           the parts shall be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of, and concurrently
           with, evaluation of the other.  The technical proposal shall not contain reference to cost; however resources information, such as
           data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontracts, etc., shall be contained in the technical proposal so that your
           understanding of the Statement of Work (SOW) may be evaluated.  It must disclose your technical approach in as much detail as
           possible, including, but not limited to, the requirements of the technical proposal instructions.


      d.    Evaluation of Proposals:  The Government will evaluate technical proposals in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section M,
           Evaluation/Award Criteria.

      e.    Rejection of Proposals:  The Government reserves the right to reject any or all proposals received.  It is understood that your
           proposal will become part of the official contract file.

      f.    Unnecessarily Elaborate Proposals:  Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a
           complete and effective proposal are not desired and may be construed as an indication of the offeror's lack of cost consciousness.
           Elaborate art work, expensive visual and other presentation aids are neither necessary nor wanted.

      g.    Privacy Act:  The Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law (P.L.) 93-579) requires that a Federal agency advise each individual whom it asks
           to supply information:  1) the authority which authorized the solicitation; 2) whether disclosure is voluntary or mandatory; (3) the
           principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used; (4) the uses outside the agency which may be made of
           the information; and 4) the effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.

            Therefore:

           (1)   The Government is requesting the information called for in this RFP pursuant to the authority provided by Section 301(g) of the
                 Public Health Service Act, as amended, and P.L. 92-218, as amended.

            (2)  Provisions of the information requested are entirely voluntary.

            (3)  The collection of this information is for the purpose of conducting an accurate, fair, and adequate review prior to a
                 discussion as to whether to award a contract.

            (4)  Failure to provide any or all of the requested information may result in a less than adequate review.

            (5)  The information provided by you may be routinely disclosed for the following purposes:


                 -to the cognizant audit agency and the General Accounting Officer for auditing;
                 -to the Department of Justice as required for litigation;
                 -to respond to Congressional inquiries; and
                       -to qualified experts, not within the definition of Department employees for opinions as a part of the review process.

            In addition, the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579, Section 7) requires that the following information be provided when individuals
           are requested to disclose their social security number.

           Provision of the social security number is voluntary.  Social security numbers are requested for the purpose of accurate and
           efficient identification, referral, review and management of AHRQ contracting programs.  Authority for requesting this information is
           provided by Section 305 and Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended.

      h.    The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal.  It is also brought to your
           attention that the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public
           funds in connection with this or any acquisition action.

           The Government reserves the right to award a contract without discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that the initial
           prices are fair and reasonable and that discussions are not necessary.

L.10  TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS
To facilitate proposal evaluation, the Offeror shall submit, as part of the proposal, a separate section entitled Technical Proposal.  The data
and information contained in the Technical Proposal shall be keyed to each paragraph of the technical proposal requirements as outlined in this
section.  All pages must be numbered.

The submission must be specific to the requirements in this request for proposal.
Failure to comply with any aspect of this technical proposal instruction may result in the proposal being considered non-responsive.

The technical proposal described below shall be limited to 40 pages not including resumes or bibliographies, with no less than an 11-point
pitch, with the majority of the text double-spaced. Resumes or CVs are required only for key personnel and should not exceed 10 pages each.
Brief biographic sketches of other personnel may be provided but should not exceed ½ page.  Lengthy proposals and voluminous appendices are
neither needed nor desired as they are difficult to read and evaluate, and may indicate the offeror’s inability to concisely state their
proposal.


 Recommended Technical Proposal Format


The offeror’s proposal should present sufficient information to reflect a thorough understanding of the work requirements and a detailed plan
for achieving the objectives of the scope of work.  Technical proposals shall not merely paraphrase the requirements of the Agency’s scope of
work or parts thereof, or use of phrases such as “will comply” or “standard techniques will be employed.”  The technical proposal must include a
detailed description of the techniques and procedures to be used in achieving the proposed end results in compliance with the requirements of
the Agency’s scope of work.


            (1)  Cover Page:  The name of the proposing organization, author(s) of the technical proposal, the RFP number and the title of the
      RFP should appear on the cover.  One (1) manually signed original copy of the proposal and the number of copies specified in the RFP cover
      letter are required.


            (2)  Table of Contents:  Provide sufficient detail so that all important elements of the proposal can be located readily.


            (3)  Introduction:  This should be a one or two page summary outlining the proposed work, your interest in submitting a proposal,
      and the importance of this effort in relation to your overall operation.

(4)   Technical Discussion:  The offeror shall prepare a technical discussion which addresses evaluation criteria below. The offeror shall
      further state that no deviations or exceptions to the Statement of Work are taken.   The evaluation criteria are as follows:

            1)    Technical Approach
            2)    Management Plan
                 3)    Key Personnel
            4)   Concept for an RFTO, Technical Assistance to Support Research                  on Complex Patients

Technical proposals submitted in response to this RFP shall address each of the items described below, and shall be organized in the same manner
and within the page limitations specified.  Proposals shall be prepared in double-spaced format, with numbered pages.


 1.  Technical Approach


Offeror shall submit a narrative that clearly addresses each domain along the following dimensions:

|Domain                                          |Understanding              |Approaches             |Past Experience               |Personnel          |
|Administration                                  |                           |                       |                              |                   |
|Research and Program Development                |                           |                       |                              |                   |
|Communications                                  |                           |                       |                              |                   |


Within the context of the narrative, for each domain, the Offeror should demonstrate an understanding of the domain both in terms of the
overall mission and objectives of AHRQ’s Prevention/Care Management Portfolio and the work outlined in the Statement of Work for each specific
domain.  Based on the understanding of each domain, the Offeror shall provide a brief description of the approach to the work including
methods, techniques and/or tools that may be recommended.  The Offeror should provide a conceptual framework that represents how methodologies
would be used, separately or in combination, to achieve short- and long-term objectives.

The Offeror should provide a brief description of past projects that clearly demonstrate experience in and ability to perform the work as
described in the Statement of Work for each specific domain.  Finally, the Offeror should describe lead personnel for each domain.  The Offeror
should also address plans for identifying and utilizing subcontractors and consultants.

2.  Management Plan


The Offeror shall have the ability to effectively manage complex projects; demonstrate organizational structure and capabilities to meet project
milestones in a timely manner; manage resources and cost expenditures; and adhere to performance based contracting and earned value management
contracting.  Demonstration of extensive project management expertise and experience for large complex government contracts is required.  Key
managerial staff should be certified in Project Management.   The Offeror will be required to submit project management plans in Microsoft
Office Project (version 2007) for awarded task orders.

The Offeror shall describe the overall plan for organizing, staffing, and managing task orders similar to those described above.  The plan shall
indicate, in general, how organizational roles and responsibilities will be divided, decisions made, work monitored and quality and timeliness
assured.  The Offeror shall explain how this management and staffing planning capability will enable the Offeror to start projects quickly,
conduct multiple projects concurrently, complete complex tasks within narrow time frames, and assure quality of products.

The Offeror should demonstrate its experience in complying with the Paperwork Reduction Act, Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
and regulations governing research involving human subjects.

3.  Key Personnel

The proposal shall specify the lead project team, including subcontractors and consultants.  In this project, the Project Director and Project
Managers are classified as key personnel.
   1. Offeror shall provide evidence of the availability, qualifications and demonstrated experience of key management personnel,  including  the
      Project Director and Project Managers.  The Project Director should have doctoral training in a health science and  should  have  extensive
      experience in primary care and program management.  The Project Director should have not less than ten (10)  years  total  work  experience
      that includes demonstrated skills  in  organizing  and  monitoring  challenging  and  complex  projects  conducted  by  groups  of  diverse
      professionals.  Project Managers should have, at a minimum, a master’s degree in a health or  human services-related specialty,  experience
      in primary care or prevention, and not less than five (5) years total work experience that includes demonstrated skills in  organizing  and
      monitoring complex projects in primary care.
        a. Describe how the education and technical expertise of the Project Director, the Project Managers and other key personnel specifically
           relate to the SOW.
        b. Provide length and currency of the overall education of the Project Director and the Project Managers, and other key personnel.
        c. Describe the experience of the proposed Project Director and the Project Managers in managing  the  Statement  of  Work  and  complex
           projects involving data gathering and synthesis, and dissemination  of  information,  tools  and  resources  for  a  broad  range  of
           stakeholders.  This description shall include, at a minimum, the size of projects managed, start-up time required, number of projects
           managed, problems encountered, and the resolution of those problems.  Describe those projects currently managed.   Describe  how  the
           management experience of the proposed Project Director and the Project Managers equips them to  manage  a  staff  that  reflects  the
           diverse needs of the SOW.

4.  Concept for an RFTO, Technical Assistance to Support Research on Complex Patients

The Offeror shall submit a 5-7 page concept describing how they would respond to a potential task order as described below; the concept should
describe how the Offeror would implement a two year project to start in the fall of 2010:

      ▪ Year 1: Offeror will establish a learning collaborative for approximately 50 researchers.  These researchers have been  awarded  either
        developmental grants (R21) or infrastructure grants (R24) to enhance understanding of how to optimize prevention  and  care  management
        for complex patients (i.e., those patients with one or more chronic conditions).  One function of the learning collaborative will be to
        share study design, methodology and results among the  researchers.   While  united  by  the  common  theme  of  the  complex  patient,
        researchers’  patient populations and methodological approaches may differ substantially, and they may be at different stages in  their
        research (e.g., a subset will be just starting their studies, while a smaller subset will be just finishing their studies). The Offeror
        also will use the learning collaborative to help grantees comply with any  reporting  requirements  under  the  American  Recovery  and
        Reinvestment Act (ARRA).  The Offeror should assume that the grantees will be convened at least once a year in person, and the  Offeror
        will collaborate on the agenda, meeting materials and will arrange logistics.


      ▪  Year 2: The Offeror will provide direct technical assistance to a subset of grantees described above (Year 1) who  have  been  awarded
        infrastructure grants.  Under this R24 grant opportunity, successful applicants will either develop a  dataset  or  a  new  method  for
        studying complex patients.  Grantees are required to ensure that the new datasets are publicly available for other researchers to  use.
        The Offeror will provide direct technical assistance to these researchers on creating a  public  use  dataset  (e.g.,  developing  user
        manuals and codebooks to assist in creating datasets with de-identified data, and in posting datasets for public access [e.g.,  outside
        of the hosting institutions electronic firewalls] ).

      ▪ Year 3: Offeror will disseminate the results of individual grantees as  well  as  disseminate  the  public  use  datasets  to  a  broad
        audience of researchers.  Activities could include, but are not limited to: synthesizing results from grantees,  “translating”  results
        and creating products for multiple audiences including primary care providers, policy-makers, and researchers; creating  materials  for
        AHRQ’s Website; hosting webinars for researchers to describe the available datasets, etc.


      For the purposes of this exercise, offerors may assume a total project budget of approximately $1million per year for three years.

L.12  SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PLAN


      In accordance with FAR Part 15.304(c)4, the extent of participation of Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) concerns in performance of the
      contract shall be evaluated in unrestricted acquisitions expected to exceed a total estimated cost of $550,000 ($1,000,000 for
      construction) subject to certain limitations (see FAR 19.201 and 19.1202).
      A.    All offerors, regardless of size, shall submit the following information in 1 original and 9 copies.

            A plan on the extent of participation of Small Disadvantaged Business concerns in performance of the contract.  Participation in
           performance of the contract includes the work expected to be performed by SDB concern(s).  This can include SDB (as prime
           contractor), joint ventures, teaming arrangements, and subcontracts.  Include the following information in SDB participation plans:

                 1.    The extent of an offeror’s commitment to use SDB concerns.  Commitment should be as specific as possible, i.e., are
                       subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, etc.  Enforceable commitments will be weighted more
                       heavily than non-enforceable ones.

                 2.    Specifically identify the SDB concerns with point of contact and phone number.

                 3.    The complexity and variety of the work SDB concerns are to perform.

                 4.    Realism for the use of SDB in the proposal.

                 5.    Past performance of the Offeror in complying with subcontracting plans for SDB concerns.

                 6.    Targets expressed as dollars and percentage of total contract value for each participating SDB; which will be
                       incorporated into and become part of any resulting contract.

                 7.    The extent of participation of SDB concerns in terms of the total acquisition.

     B. SDB participation information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor against which offeror’s
        relative rankings will be compared to assure the best value to the Government.  The Government will focus on information that
        demonstrates realistic commitments to use SDB concerns relative to the size and complexity of the acquisition under consideration.  The
        Government is not required to contact all references provided by the offeror.  Also, references other than those identified by the
        offeror may be contacted by the Government to obtain additional information that will be used in the evaluation of the offeror’s
        commitment to SDB participation.


(End of Information provided on Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan)

L.13  BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

      The offeror shall submit as part of the proposal a separate enclosure titled “Business Proposal” for each proposal  being  submitted.   The
      Business Proposal shall include the Cost/Price Proposal and Other Administrative Data in accordance with the following:


      A.    Cost/Price Proposal

      A cost proposal, in the amount of an 1 original and 9 copies, shall be provided only to the extent that it shall include:

            1.    Certified, unloaded, labor rates for individuals expected to work on a project of this  size  and  nature.   See  the  attached
                 Proposal Specifications which provides a list of the specific labor categories.   Labor  rates  or  ranges  of  rates  shall  be
                 indicated for each labor category.

            2.   A statement certifying that the offeror has a cost accounting system in place which allows  for  the  collection,  tracking  and
                 reporting of all costs under a cost reimbursement-type contract.

            3.   Certified documentation that the offeror has a current indirect cost rate agreement in place with a federal agency  or  that  is
                 in the process of obtaining or revising such an agreement.  A copy of the indirect cost rate  agreement  or  the  proposed  rate
                 agreement shall be provided.

B.    Small Business Subcontracting Plan:


           All offerors except small businesses will be required to  submit  a  subcontracting  plan  in  accordance  with  the  Small  Business
           Subcontracting Plan, FAR 52.219-9, incorporated in this solicitation for any task orders that are estimated  to  be  above  $550,000.
           The plan will only be required when a Request for Task Order Proposal is issued that is estimated to be above $550,000 and  does  not
           need  to  be  submitted  as   part   of   this   proposal.    A   copy   of   a   model   subcontracting   plan   is   available   at
           http://www.hhs.gov/osdbu/read/SampleSubcontractingPlan.doc.  If the model plan is not used, all elements outlined must  be  addressed
           in the offeror’s format.  If the offeror is not a small business and fails to submit  a  subcontracting  plan  when  requested  by  a
           specific RFTO, the offeror will be considered nonresponsive and their proposal will be returned without further consideration.

           This provision does not apply to small business concerns.  This provision does apply to all other offerors, including large  business
           concerns, colleges, universities and non-profit organizations.


            The term “subcontract” means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered  into  by  a  Federal
           Government prime contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for the performance of the  original  contract
           or subcontract.  This includes, but is not limited to, agreements/ purchase orders  for  supplies  and  services  such  as  equipment
           purchase, copying services, and travel services.

            The offeror understands that:

              a. No Task Order above the threshold will be awarded unless and until  an  acceptable  plan  is  negotiated  with  the  Contracting
                 Officer. The plan will be incorporated into the Task Order.

              b. An acceptable plan must, in the determination of the Contracting Officer, provide the maximum practicable opportunity for  small
                 business concerns and small business concerns owned and  controlled  by  socially  and  economically  disadvantaged  persons  to
                 participate in the performance of the Task Order.

              c. If a subcontracting plan acceptable to the Contracting Officer is not negotiated  within  the  time  limits  prescribed  by  the
                 contracting activity and such failure arises out of causes within the control and with the fault or negligence of  the  offeror,
                 the offeror shall be ineligible for award.  The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor in writing of  the  reasons  for
                 determining a subcontracting plan unacceptable early enough in the negotiation process to allow the  Contractor  to  modify  the
                 plan within the time limits prescribed.

              d. Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting  plans  under  previous  contracts  will  be  considered  by  the
                 Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract.

              e. It is the offeror’s responsibility to develop a satisfactory subcontracting plan with respect to  small  business  concerns  and
                 small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and  economically  disadvantaged  individuals,  and  women-owned  small
                 business concerns, and that each such aspect of the offeror’s plan will be judged independent of the other.

              f. The offeror will submit, as required by the Contracting Officer, subcontracting reports  in  accordance  with  the  instructions
                 thereon, and as further directed by the Contracting Officer.  Subcontractors will also submit these reports  to  the  Government
                 Contract Specialist or as otherwise directed, with a copy to the prime Contractor’s designated small and disadvantaged  business
                 liaison.

(End of information on Small Business Subcontracting Plan requirements)


C.    Other Administrative Data


                 (1)   Terms and Conditions:  The proposal shall stipulate that it is predicated upon the terms and conditions of  the  RFP.   In
           addition, it shall contain a statement to the effect that it is firm for a period of at least 120  days  from  the  date  of  receipt
           thereof by the Government.


                       Minimum Bid Acceptance Period (April 1984)


                       (a)   "Acceptance period," as used in this provision, means the number of calendar days available to  the  Government  for
                       awarding a contract from the date specified in this solicitation for receipt of bids.


                       (b)   This provision supersedes any language pertaining to the  acceptance  period  that  may  appear  elsewhere  in  this
                       solicitation.


                       (c)   The Government requires a minimum acceptance period of 120 days.


                       (d)   A bid allowing less than the Government's minimum acceptance period may be rejected.


                       (e)   The bidder agrees to execute all that it has undertaken to do, in compliance with its bid, if that bid  is  accepted
                       in writing within (i) the acceptance period stated in paragraph (3) above, or (ii) any longer acceptance period stated  in
                       paragraph (4) above.


                 (2)   Authority to Conduct Negotiations:  The proposal shall list the names and  telephone  numbers  of  persons  authorized  to
                 conduct negotiations and to execute contracts.


            (3)   Property:
                 (a)   It is HHS policy that contractors will provide all equipment  and  facilities  necessary  for  performance  of  contracts.
                       Exception may be granted to furnish Government-owned property, or to authorize purchase with  contract  funds,  only  when
                       approved by the Contract Specialist.  If additional equipment  must  be  acquired,  you  shall  include  the  description,
                       estimated cost of each item and whether you will furnish such items with your own funds.


                       (b)   You shall identify Government-owned property in your possession, and/or property  acquired  from  Federal  funds  to
                       which you have title, that is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract.


                       (c)   The management and control of any Government property shall be  in  accordance  with  HHS  Publication  (OS)  74-115
                       entitled, Contractor's Guide for Control of Government Property" 1990, a copy of which will be provided upon request.


            (4)  Royalties:  You shall furnish information concerning royalties  which  are  anticipated  to  be  paid  in  connection  with  the
                 performance of work under the proposed contract.


                 (5)   Commitments:  You shall list other commitments with the  Government  relating  to  the  specified  work  or  services  and
                 indicate whether these commitments will or will not interfere with the completion of work  and/or  services  contemplated  under
                 this proposal.


                 (6)   Financial Capacity:  You shall provide sufficient data to  indicate  that  you  have  the  necessary  financial  capacity,
                 working capital, and other resources to perform the contract without assistance from any outside source.  If not,  indicate  the
                 amount required and the anticipated source.  (Financial data such as balance sheets, profit and loss statements, cash forecasts,
                 and financial histories of your organization's affiliated concerns should be utilized.)

                 (7)   Performance Capability:  You shall provide acceptable evidence of your "ability  to  obtain"  equipment,  facilities,  and
                 personnel necessary to perform the requirements of this Contract.  If these are not represented in your current operations, they
                 should normally be supported by commitment or explicit arrangement, which is in existence at the time  the  contract  is  to  be
                 awarded, for the rental, purchase, or other acquisition of such resources, equipment, facilities, or  personnel.   In  addition,
                 you shall indicate your ability to  comply  with  the  required  or  proposed  delivery  or  performance  schedule  taking  into
                 consideration all existing business commitments, commercial as well as Government.


                 (8)   Representations and Certifications:  Section K, "Representations and Certifications  and  Other  Statements  of  Offerors"
                 shall be completed and signed by an official authorized to bind your organization.  This section shall be made  a  part  of  the
                 original business proposal.

L.14  SELECTION OF OFFERORS


      a.    The acceptability of the technical portion of each contract proposal will be evaluated by the technical review committee.  The
      committee will evaluate each proposal in strict conformity with the evaluation criteria of the RFP, utilizing point scores and written
      critiques.  The committee may suggest that the Contract Specialist request clarifying information from an offeror.


      b.    The business portion of each contract proposal will be subjected to a cost review, management analysis, etc.


      c.    Past performance, Small Business Subcontracting Plan and the Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan of the technically
      acceptable offerors will be evaluated by AHRQ staff.  A competitive range may be determined.  Oral or written discussions will be conducted
      with all offerors in the competitive range, if necessary.  All aspects of the proposals are subject to discussions, including cost,
      technical approach, past performance, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan and contractual terms and conditions if discussions
      are held.  Final Proposal Revisions will be requested with the reservation of the right to conduct limited negotiations after submission of
      the Final Proposal Revisions.

      d.        A final best-value analysis will be performed taking into consideration the results of the technical evaluation, cost analysis,
      and past performance.  The Government reserves the right to make an award to the best advantage of the Government, technical merit, cost,
      past performance, and other factors considered.

e.       The Government reserves the right to make a single award, multiple
          awards, or no award at all to the RFP.

OFFERORS PLEASE NOTE:  Evaluation criteria 1-4, for a total of 100 points, will be evaluated by a peer review Technical Committee that will also
recommend technical acceptability or unacceptability of the proposal.  Program staff and contracting personnel will review and evaluate Past-
Performance for a total of 25 points, and the Small business and Small Disadvantaged Business plans for Business size considerations

L.15  PROPOSAL INTENT

It is requested that if an offeror intends to submit a proposal to this solicitation that the attached Proposal Intent Form be completed and
returned to the address indicated at the top of the cover sheet.  The submission of the intent form is not binding on an offeror to submit a
proposal, nor does the failure to submit the form prohibit an offeror from submitting a proposal.  The purpose is to provide us with an
estimated number of proposals to assist us in our planning and logistics for proposal reviews.

SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

TECHNICAL EVALUATION CRITERIA

Selection of an offeror for contract award will be based on evaluation of proposals against four (4) factors and award will be made to that
responsible offeror whose proposal offers the best value to the government.  The four factors are: (1) Technical Merit, (2) Past Performance,
(3) Business Size, and (4) Cost. Following the evaluation, scores will be arrayed and a competitive range may be established.  Following
evaluation and negotiations, should technical quality between Offerors be considered approximately the same, then cost may become the
determining factor in award selection.  The Government reserves the right to make a best value award, cost and other factors considered.

All evaluation factors, other than cost or price, when combined are significantly more important than cost or price. The evaluation will be
based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective contractors in relation to the needs set forth in this solicitation.  The merits of
each proposal will be evaluated carefully.  Each proposal must document the feasibility of successful implementation of the requirements of this
solicitation.  Offerors must submit information sufficient to evaluate their proposals based on the detailed criteria listed below. Offerors
must possess, either in-house or through existing subcontracts, the capabilities to perform all of the different types of services sought
through this contract.

THE GOVERNMENT RESERVES THE RIGHT TO MAKE AN AWARD WITHOUT DISCUSSION.

The technical merit of a proposal will be evaluated in terms of its response to the following evaluation factors and scored using the associated
assigned weights:

Evaluation Criteria:  Technical                                            Weight

      A.  Technical Approach                                    30
The proposal shall be evaluated on the offeror's demonstrated understanding of the effort and the issues involved in the subject area and on the
overall approach for developing, designing and implementing the Statement of Work.

      B.    Management Plan                                     20


The proposal shall be evaluated on the overall plan for organizing and managing the task order contract.  The management plan will be evaluated
on the appropriateness of the organizational structure and management systems, the management of subcontractors/consultants, the ability to
handle multiple simultaneous tasks with


competing needs, the ability to work with multiple agencies, the plan for ensuring availability of adequate staff, and the planned methods for
assuring the successful completion of all tasks.  It also will be evaluated on the Offeror’s experience in complying with government regulations
such as 508 compliance and OMB Clearance.




      C.    Key Personnel                                        20

The proposal shall be evaluated on the availability, qualifications and demonstrated experience of key personnel as identified in the technical
proposal instructions.


      D.    Concept for Task Order                                    30


The proposal shall be evaluated on the quality of a proposed task order proposal.

      Maximum Technical Points =                              100

Other Evaluation Criteria:

      Other factors include Past Performance, Business size, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan, and Cost, which will be evaluated
after a proposal has been rated technically acceptable.


PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION


      Offerors shall submit the following information as part of their proposal for both the offeror and proposed major subcontractors:


      (1)  A list of the last five (5) contracts and subcontracts completed during the past three years and all contracts and subcontracts
      currently in process.  Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of State and local governments
      and commercial customers.  Offerors that are newly formed entities without prior contracts should list contracts and subcontracts as
      required for all key personnel.  Include the following information for each contract and subcontract:


                       a: Name of contracting activity
                       b: Contract number
                       c: Contract type
                       d: Total contract value
                       e: Contract work
                       f:  Contracting Officer and telephone number
                       g: Program Manager and telephone number
                       h: Administrative Contracting Officer, if different from item f, and telephone number
                       i: List of major subcontracts


      (2)   The offeror may provide information on problems encountered on the contracts and subcontracts identified in (1) above and corrective
      actions taken to resolve those problems.  Offerors  should not provide general information on their performance on the identified
      contracts.  General performance information will be obtained from the references.


      (3)   The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that may indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for
      developing and producing the product or service required.  Identify what segment of the company (one division or the entire company) that
      received the award or certification.  Describe when the award or certification was bestowed.  If the award or certification is over three
      years old, present evidence that the qualifications still apply.


      (4)   Each offeror will be evaluated on his/her performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services.
      Performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor against which offeror’s relative
      rankings will be compared to assure best value to the Government.  The Government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of
      performance relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration.  References other than those identified by the
      offeror may be contacted by the Government with the information received used in the evaluation of the offeror’s past performance.


      The attached Past Performance Questionnaire and Contractor Performance Form (Attachment 1) shall be completed by those contracting
      organizations listed in (1) above.  The evaluation forms shall be completed and forwarded directly to the following:


                             Contracting Specialist
                            Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                             Division of Contracts Management
                             540 Gaither Road
                             Rockville, Maryland 20850
                             FAX: 301-427-1740


      Evaluation forms must be received by 12:00 noon on the Date listed at the top of the cover sheet in order to be included in the review
      process.  It is the responsibility of the offeror to ensure that these documents are forwarded to the Contract Specialist.












ATTACHMENT 1

      PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

PART ONE: INSTRUCTIONS

The offeror listed below has submitted a proposal in response to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) Solicitation No. AHRQ-10-
10007B entitled “Prevention/Care Management Technical Assistance Center”. Past performance is an important part of the evaluation criteria for
this acquisition, so input from previous customers of the offeror is important.  This office would greatly appreciate you taking the time to
complete this form.  This information is to be provided to the Contracting Specialist and the AHRQ Contracting Officer and is NOT to be
disclosed to the offeror either verbally or in writing.  Please provide an honest assessment and return to AHRQ to the address shown below, no
later the date listed at the top of the cover sheet.  If you have any questions, please contactthe Contract Specialist  at (301) 427-1460.

                       Contracting Specialist
                       Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                       Division of Contracts Management
                       540 Gaither Road
                       Rockville, Maryland 20850

                       FAX: (301) 427-1740


NAME OF OFFEROR:_____________________________________

ADDRESS:_____________________________________________
        _____________________________________________

Contractor Performance Form


1.    Name of Contractor:______________________________

2.    Address:_________________________________________

             _________________________________________
3.    Contract/Grant Number: _______________________________________

4.    Contract/Grant Value (Base Plus Options): ________________________

5.    Contract/Grant Award Date: ____________________________________

6.    Contract/Grant Completion Date: ________________________________

7.    Type of Contract/Grant: (Check all that apply) (  )FP (  )FPI (  )FP-EPA
      (  ) Award Fee (  ) CPFF-Completion (  ) CPFF-Term (  ) CPIF (  ) CPAF
      (  ) IO/IQ (  ) BOA (  ) Requirements (  ) Labor-Hour (  )T&M (  ) SBSA
      (  )8(a) (  )SBIR (  ) Sealed Bid(  )Negotiated(  )Competitive (  )Non-Competitive

8.    Description of Requirement:

CONTRACTOR’S PERFORMANCE RATING

Ratings: Summarize contractor performance and circle in the column on the right the number which corresponds to the performance rating for each
rating category.  Please see reverse page for explanation of rating scale.


|Quality of Product or Service     |Comments                                                                              |0     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |1     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |2     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |3     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |4     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |5     |
|Cost                              |Comments                                                                              |0     |
|Control                           |                                                                                      |1     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |2     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |3     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |4     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |5     |
|Timeliness of                     |Comments                                                                              |0     |
|Performance                       |                                                                                      |1     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |2     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |3     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |4     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |5     |
|Business Relations                |Comments                                                                              |0     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |1     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |2     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |3     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |4     |
|                                  |                                                                                      |5     |


Customer Satisfaction - Is/was the Contractor committed to customer satisfaction?   Yes     No ;

Would you use this Contractor again?    Yes    No

Reason:
NAME OF EVALUATOR: ________________________________________

TITLE OF EVALUATOR: ________________________________________

SIGNATURE OF EVALUATOR:___________________________________

DATE:_____________________

MAILING ADDRESS:
________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________




PHONE #:__________________________________























Rating Guidelines:   Summarize contractor performance in each of the rating areas. Assign each area a rating 0(Unsatisfactory), 1(Poor),
2(Fair),  3(Good),  4(Excellent)  5(Outstanding).  Use the following instructions as guidance in making these evaluations.


|                           |Quality                      |Cost Control              |Timeliness of              |Business Relation                  |
|                           |                             |                          |Performance                |                                   |
|                           |-Compliance with contract    |-Within budget(over/      |-Met interim milestones    |-Effective management              |
|                           |requirements                 |under target costs)       |-Reliable                  |-Businesslike correspondence       |
|                           |-Accuracy of reports         |-Current, accurate, and   |-Responsive to technical   |-Responsive to contract            |
|                           |-Technical excellence        |complete billings         |direction                  |requirements                       |
|                           |                             |-Relationship  of         |-Completed on time,        |-Prompt notification of problems   |
|                           |                             |negotiated costs to       |including wrap-up and      |-Reasonable/cooperative            |
|                           |                             |actual                    |contract adm               |-Flexible                          |
|                           |                             |-Cost efficiencies        |-No liquidated damages     |-Pro-active                        |
|                           |                             |-Change orders issue      |assessed                   |-Effective small/small             |
|                           |                             |                          |                           |disadvantaged  business sub-       |
|                           |                             |                          |                           |contracting program                |
|0-unsatisfactory           |Nonconformances are          |Ability to manage cost    |Delays are jeopardizing    |Response to inquiries,             |
|                           |jeopardizing the             |issues is jeopardizing    |the achievement of         |technical/service/administrative   |
|                           |achievement of contract      |performance of contract   |contract requirements,     |issues is not effective            |
|                           |requirements, despite use    |requirements, despite     |despite use of Agency’s    |                                   |
|                           |of Agency resources          |use of Agency             |resources                  |                                   |
|                           |                             |resources                 |                           |                                   |
|1-Poor                     |Overall compliance           |Ability to manage cost    |Delays require major       |Response to inquiries,             |
|                           |requires major Agency        |issues requires major     |Agency resources to        |technical/service/administrative   |
|                           |resources to ensure          |Agency resources to       |ensure achievement of      |issues is marginally effective     |
|                           |achievement of contract      |ensure achievement of     |contract requirements      |                                   |
|                           |requirements                 |contract requirements     |                           |                                   |
|2-Fair                     |Overall compliance           |Ability to manage cost    |Delays require minor       |Response to inquiries,             |
|                           |requires minor Agency        |issues requires minor     |Agency resources to        |technical/service/administrative   |
|                           |resources to ensure          |Agency resources to       |ensure achievement of      |issues is somewhat effective       |
|                           |achievement of contract      |ensure achievement of     |contract requirements      |                                   |
|                           |requirements                 |contract requirements     |                           |                                   |
|3-Good                     |Overall compliance does      |Management of cost        |Delays do not impact       |Response to inquiries,             |
|                           |not impact achievement of    |issues does not impact    |achievement of contract    |technical/service/administrative   |
|                           |contract requirements        |achievement of contract   |requirements               |issues is usually effective        |
|                           |                             |requirements              |                           |                                   |
|4-Excellent                |There are no quality         |There are no cost         |There are no delays        |Response to inquiries,             |
|                           |problems                     |management issues         |                           |technical/service/administrative   |
|                           |                             |                          |                           |issues is effective                |

5-Outstanding.   The Contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level that justifies adding a point to the score.  It is expected
that this rating
will be used in those rare circumstances where Contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as “Excellent.”






ATTACHMENT 2

                                     Complete form to disclose lobbying activities pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352
                                                   (See reverse for public burden disclosure.)

|1. Type of Federal Action:                           |2. Status of Federal Action:                         |3.  Report Type:                                   |
|a. contract                                          |a. bid/offer/application                             |a. initial filing                                  |
|b. grant                                             |b. Initial award                                     |b. material change                                 |
|c. cooperative agreement                             |c. post-award                                        |For Material Change Only:                          |
|d. loan                                              |                                                     |year ______ quarter _______                        |
|e. loan guarantee                                    |                                                     |date of last report________                        |
|f. loan insurance                                    |                                                     |                                                   |


|4. Name and Address of Reporting Entity:                                       |5. If Reporting Entity in No. 4 is Subawardee, Enter Name       and Address of |
|                                                                               |Prime                                                                          |
|G  Prime G  Subawardee                                                         |                                                                               |
|Tier_____, if known:                                                           |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|Congressional District, if known:                                              |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |Congressional District, if known:                                              |
|6. Federal Department/Agency:                                                  |7. Federal Program Name/Description                                            |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |CFDA Number, if applicable: __________________                                 |
|8. Federal Action Number, if known:                                            |9. Award Amount, if known:                                                     |
|                                                                               |$                                                                              |
|10. a. Name and Address of Lobbying Entity                                     |b. Individual Performing Services (including address if      different from No.|
|(if individual, last name, first name, MI):                                    |10a)                                                                           |
|                                                                               |(last name, first name, MI)                                                    |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|(attach Continuation Sheet(s)                                                  |SF-LLL-A, if necessary)                                                        |
|11. Amount of Payment (check all that apply):                                  |13. Type of Payment (check all that apply):                                    |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|$__________  G  actual    G  planned                                           |G    a. retainer                                                               |
|                                                                               |G    b. one-time fee                                                           |
|                                                                               |G    c. commission                                                             |
|                                                                               |G    d. contingent fee                                                         |
|                                                                               |G    e. deferred                                                               |
|                                                                               |G    f. other; specify: _____________________________                          |
|12. Form of Payment (check all that apply):                                    |                                                                               |
|                                                                               |                                                                               |
|G  a. cash                                                                     |                                                                               |
|G  b. in-kind; specify:  nature_____________                                   |                                                                               |
|value______________                                                            |                                                                               |


|14.  Brief Description of Services Performed or to be Performed and Date(s) of Service, including officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted, for payment  |
|indicated in Item 11:                                                                                                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|(attach Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A, if necessary)                                                                                                           |
|15.  Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A attached:                        |  Yes           |  No                                                                     |


|16. Information requested through this form is authorized by title 31 U.S.C. section 1352.    |Signature:_______________________________                        |
|This disclosure of lobbying activities is a material representation of fact upon which        |                                                                 |
|reliance was placed by the tier above when this transaction was made or entered into.  This   |Print Name:____________________________________                  |
|disclosure is required pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352.  This information will be reported to the  |                                                                 |
|Congress semi-annually and will be available for public inspection.  Any person who fails to  |Title:___________________________________                        |
|file the required disclosure shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and |                                                                 |
|not more than $100,000 for each failure.                                                      |Telephone No.:_________________Date:____________                 |
|                                                                                              |                                                                 |
|Federal Use Only                                                                              |Authorized for Local Reproduction                                 |
|                                                                                              |Standard Form--LLL                                                |


                                                        DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
                                                                CONTINUATION SHEET

Approved by OMB
0348-0046

|                                                                                                                                                                |
|Reporting Entity:_________________________________________________  Page _____ of _____                                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                                                                                |


Authorized for Local Reproduction                                         Standard Form--LLL-A

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION OF SF-LLL, DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES

This disclosure form shall be completed by the reporting entity, whether subawardee of prime Federal recipient, at the initiation or  receipt  of
a covered Federal action, or a material change to a previous filing, pursuant to title 31 U.S.C. section 1352.  The filing of a form is  required
for each payment or agreement to make payment to any lobbying entity for influencing of attempting to influence an officer  or  employee  of  any
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection  with  a  covered  Federal
action.  Use the SF-LLL-A Continuation Sheet for additional information if the space on the form is inadequate.  Complete all  items  that  apply
for both the initial filing and material change report.  Refer to the implementing guidance published by the Office of Management and Budget  for
additional information.
  1.  Identify the type of covered Federal action for which lobbying activity is and/or has been secured to influence the outcome of a covered
    Federal action.
  2.  Identify the status of the covered Federal action.
  3.  Identify the appropriate classification of this report.  If this is a follow-up report caused by a material change to the information
    previously reported, enter the year and quarter in which the change occurred.  Enter the date of the last previously submitted report by this
    reporting entity for this covered Federal action.
  4.  Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the reporting entity.  Include Congressional District, if known.  Check the
    appropriate classification of the reporting entity that designates if it is, or expects to be, a prime or subaward recipient.  Identify the
    tier of the subawardee, e.g., the first subawardee of the prime is the 1st tier.  Subawards include but are not limited to subcontracts,
    subgrants and contract awards under grants.
  5.  If the organization filing the report in item 4 checks "Subawardee," then enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the
    prime Federal recipient.  Include Congressional District, if known.
  6.  Enter the name of the Federal agency making the award or loan commitment.  Include at least one organizational level below agency name, if
    known.  For example, Department of Transportation, United States Coast Guard.
  7.  Enter the Federal program name or description for the covered Federal action (item 1).  If known, enter the full Catalog of Federal
    Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for grants, cooperative agreements, loans, and loan commitments.
  8.  Enter the most appropriate Federal identifying number available for the Federal action identified in item 1 (e.g., Request for Proposal
    (RFP) number, Invitation for Bid (IFB) number, grant announcement number, the contract, grant, or loan award number, the application/proposal
    control number assigned by the Federal agency).  Include prefixes, e.g., "RFP-DE-90-001."
  9.  For a covered Federal action where there has been an award or loan commitment by the Federal agency, enter the Federal amount of the
    award/loan commitment for the prime entity identified in item 4 or 5.
 10.  (a)   Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the lobbying entity engaged by the reporting entity  identified in item 4
        to influence the covered Federal action.
      (b)   Enter the full names of the individual(s) performing services, and include full address if different from 10(a); Enter Last Name,
        First Name, and Middle Initial (MI).
  11.  Enter the amount of compensation paid or reasonably expected to be paid by the reporting entity (item 4)       to the lobbying entity
    (item 10).  Indicate whether the payment has been made (actual) or will be made (planned).  Check all boxes that apply.  If this is a
    material charge report, enter the cumulative amount of payment made or planned to be made.
 12.  Check the appropriate box(es).  Check all boxes that apply.  If payment is made through an in-kind contribution, specify the nature and
    value of the in-kind payment.
13.   Check the appropriate box(es).  Check all boxes that apply.  If other, specify nature.
 14.  Provide a specific and detailed description of the services that the lobbyist has performed, or will be expected to perform, and the
    date(s) of any services rendered.  Include all preparatory and related activity, not just time spent in actual contact with Federal
    officials.  Identify the Federal official(s) or employee(s) contacted or the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) of Congress that were
    contacted.
 15.  Check whether or not a SF-LLL-A Continuation Sheet(s) is attached.
 16.  The certifying official shall sign and date the form, print his/her name, title and telephone number.


|Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 30 minutes per response,   including time for reviewing instructions,   |
|searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information.  Send comments     |
|regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Office of      |
|Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0348-0046), Washington, D.C.  20503.                                                                   |



























ATTACHMENT 3

                                                          PROPOSAL INTENT RESPONSE SHEET
                                                               RFP No. AHRQ-10-XXXX
                                        Prevemtion/Care Management Technical Assistance Center, (PCM-TAC)


           Please review the attached request for proposal.  Furnish the information requested below and return this page by April 23, 2010.
           Your expression of intent is not binding but will greatly assist us in planning for the proposal evaluation.




      [   ]  INTEND TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL




      [   ] DO NOT INTEND TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:






           Please return to:
                            Randy Allison
                            Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
                            Contracts Management
                            540 Gaither Road
                            Rockville, Maryland 20850







Attachment 4
                                                        SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN
                                                         (FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY)

                                                                                                                    DATE OF PLAN:  ______________
CONTRACTOR  ______________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS:  ________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
DUNN & BRADSTREET NUMBER:  ________________________________________________________
SOLICITATION OR CONTRACT NUMBER:  __________________________________________________
ITEM/SERVICE (Description):  ____________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________

TOTAL CONTRACT AMOUNT:     $___________________
                  Total contract or   (Base-Year, if options)


$___________________               $ __________________
      Option #1                         Option # 2
         (if applicable)                       (if applicable)


TOTAL MODIFICATION AMOUNT, IF APPLICABLE     $ _________________________
TOTAL TASK ORDER AMOUNT, IF APPLICABLE$ $ _________________________

PERIOD OF CONTRACT PERFORMANCE (Month, Day & Year):      _____________________

The following outline meets the minimum requirements of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, as amended, and implemented by Federal
Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Subpart 19.7.  While this outline has been designed to be consistent with statutory and regulatory requirements,
other formats of a subcontracting plan may be acceptable.  It is not intended to replace any existing corporate plan that is more extensive.
Failure to include the essential information of FAR Subpart 19.7 may be cause for either a delay in acceptance or the rejection of a bid or
offer when a subcontracting plan is required.  “SUBCONTRACT,” as used in this clause, means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-
employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for
performance of the contract or subcontract.  If assistance is needed to locate small business sources, contact the Office of Small and
Disadvantage Business Utilization (OSDBU) at (202) 690-7300 or the OPDIV Small Business Specialist at ___________________.  Sources may also be
obtained from SBA’s PRONET website.  Please note that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has subcontracting goals of _30__% for
small business (SB), _11_% for small disadvantaged business (SDB), _3__% for HubZone businesses (HUBZone), ___5__% for women-owned business
(WOSB), __3__% for veteran-owned business (VOSB), and service disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concerns for fiscal year _____.
For this procurement, HHS expects all proposed subcontracting plans to contain the following goals, at a minimum, _____% for small business,
____% small disadvantaged business, ____% for HubZone businesses, ______% for   woman owned businesses, and ______% for veteran-owned
businesses.  These percentages shall be expressed as percentages of the total estimated subcontracting dollars. The offeror is required to
include an explanation for a category that has zero as a goal.

NOTE TO CONTRACTORS:  Please provide your CCS number with your Dun & Bradstreet number.

1.  Type of Plan (check one)
      _____ Individual plan (all elements developed specifically for this contract and applicable for the full term of this contract).

      _____ Master plan (goals developed for this contract) all other elements standardized and approved by a lead agency Federal Official; must
      be renewed every three years and contractor must provide copy of lead agency approval.
      _____ Commercial products/service plan  This plan is used when the contractor sells products and services customarily used for non-
      government purposes.  Plan/goals are negotiated with the initial agency on a company-wide basis rather than for individual contracts.  The
      plan is effective only during the year approved.  The contractor must provide a copy of the initial agency approval, and must submit an
      annual SF 295 to HHS with a breakout of subcontracting prorated for HHS (with a OPDIV breakdown, if possible.)

2.  Goals

State separate dollar and percentage goals for Small Business (SB), Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB), Woman-owned Small Business (WOSB),
Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Small Business, Veteran-owned (VOSB), Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business (SDVOSB)
and “Other than small business” (Other) as subcontractors, for the base year and each option year, as specified in FAR 19.704  (break out and
append option year goals, if the contract contains option years) or project annual subcontracting base and goals under commercial plans.




   a. Total estimated dollar value of ALL planned subcontracting, i.e., with ALL types of concerns under this contract is $
      ________________________  (b + h = a)  (Base Years 1&2 )

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________

   b. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with SMALL BUSINESSES (including SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB):
      (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and ________________%
      (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


   c. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESSES:  (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and
      ________________%  (Base Year)


FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


   d. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with WOMAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES:  (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and
      ________________%  (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


   e. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with HUBZone SMALL BUSINESSES:
      (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and ________________%  (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________

Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with VETERAN SMALL BUSINESSES:  (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and
________________% (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


   g. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business:  (% of “a)
      $________________ and ________________%  (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


   h. Total estimated dollar and percent of planned subcontracting with “OTHER THAN SMALL BUSINESSES”:
      (% of “a”)  $ ________________ and ________________%  (Base Year)

FY ___1st Option FY ___2nd Option FY ___3rd Option

$ _____________  $ _____________  $ _____________


      Notes:      1.   Federal prime contract goals are:
              SB equals 30%; SDB equals 11%; HUBZone equals 3%, WOSB equals 5% and SDVOSB equals 3%, VOSB equals 3% and can serve as objectives
              for subcontracting goal development.
           2. SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB goals are subsets of SB and should be counted and reported in multiple categories, as
              appropriate.
           3. If any contract has more four options, please attach additional sheets showing dollar amounts and percentages.

   Provide a description of ALL the products and/or services to be subcontracted under this contract, and indicate the size and type of business
   supplying them (check all that apply).


|Product/Service                          |Other           |SB           |SDB          |WOSB          |HUBZone              |VOSB         |SDVOSB       |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |
|                                         |                |             |             |              |                     |             |             |



   i. Provide a description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals for SB,  SDB,  WOSB,  HUBZone,  and  VOSB  concerns.   Address
      efforts made to ensure that maximum practicable subcontracting opportunities have been made available for those concerns  and  explain  the
      method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes.  Explain the method and state the quantitative basis (in dollars) used
      to establish the percentage goals.  Also, explain how the areas to be subcontracted to SB, SDB,  WOSB,  HUBZone,  and  VOSB  concerns  were
      determined, how the capabilities of these concerns were considered contract  opportunities  and  how  such  data  comports  with  the  cost
      proposal.  Identify any source lists or other resources used in the determination process.  (Attach additional sheets, if necessary.)

      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   j. Indirect costs have ____ have not ____ been included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals above (check one).

   k. If indirect costs have been included, explain the method used to determine the proportionate share of such costs to be allocated as
      subcontracts to SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB concerns.
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

3.  Program Administrator:

      NAME/TITLE:
      ADDRESS:
      TELEPHONE/E-MAIL:

Duties:  Does the individual named above have general overall responsibility for the company’s subcontracting program, i.e., developing,
preparing, and executing subcontracting plans and monitoring performance relative to the requirements of those subcontracting plans and perform
the following duties?  (If NO is checked, please indicate who in the company performs those duties, or indicate why the duties are not performed
in your company.)

      Developing and promoting company-wide policy initiatives that demonstrate the company’s support for awarding contracts and subcontracts to
        SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB concerns; and for assuring that these concerns are included on the source lists for
        solicitations for products and services they are capable of providing.  ______  yes  ______  no

      Developing and maintaining bidder source lists of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB concerns from all possible sources;  ______  yes
        ________  no


     a. Ensuring periodic rotation of potential subcontractors on bidder’s lists;  _____  yes  _____  no


     b. Assuring that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZONE, SDVOSB and VOSB businesses are included on the bidders’ list for every subcontract solicitation
        for products and services that they are capable of providing.
        ______  yes  _______  no

     c. Ensuring that requests for proposals (RFPs) are designed to permit the maximum practicable participation of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone,
        SDVOSB and VOSB concerns.  _______  yes  ______  no

     d. Reviewing subcontract solicitations to remove statements, clauses, etc., which might tend to restrict or prohibit small, HubZone small,
        small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business participation.
        _______  yes  ______  no





     e. Accessing various sources for the identification of SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, SDVOSB and VOSB concerns to include the SBA’s PRO-Net and
        SUB-Net Systems, (http://www.sba.gov), the National Minority Purchasing Council Vendor Information Service, the Office of Minority
        Business Data Center in the Department of Commerce, local small business and minority associations, contact with local chambers of
        commerce and Federal agencies’ Small Business Offices;  ______  yes  _______  no

     f. Establishing and maintaining contract and subcontract award records;  ______  yes  ______  no

     g. Participating in Business Opportunity Workshops, Minority Business Enterprise Seminars, Trade Fairs, Procurement Conferences, etc;

     h. Ensuring that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB concerns are made aware of subcontracting opportunities and assisting concerns in
        preparing responsive bids to the company;

     i. Conducting or arranging for the conduct of training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of Section 8(d) of the
        Small Business Act, as amended;

     j. Monitoring the company’s subcontracting program performance and making any adjustments necessary to achieve the subcontract plan goals;

     k. Preparing, and submitting timely, required subcontract reports;

     l. Conducting or arranging training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of 8(d) of the Small Business Act on
        purchasing procedures.

     m. Coordinating the company’s activities during the conduct of compliance reviews by Federal agencies; and

     n. Other duties:  ______________________________________________________________


4.  Equitable Opportunity

Describe efforts the offeror will Describe efforts Describe efforts the offeror will make to ensure that SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB
concerns will have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.  These efforts include, but are not limited to, the following
activities:



     a. Outreach efforts to obtain sources:

        1. Contacting minority and small business trade associations; 2) contacting business development organizations and local chambers of
           commerce; 3) attending SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB procurement conferences and trade fairs; 4) requesting sources from the Small
           Business Administrations (SBA) PRO-Net and SUB-Net Systems,  (http://www.sba.gov/) and other SBA and Federal agency resources.
           Contractors may also conduct market surveys to identify new sources, to include, accessing the NIH e-Portals in Commerce, (e-PIC),
           (http://epic.od.nih.gov/). The NIH e-Portals in Commerce is not a mandatory source and may be used at the offeror’s discretion.

b.    Internal efforts to guide and encourage purchasing personnel:


        1. Conducting workshops, seminars, and training programs;

        2. Establishing, maintaining, and utilizing SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB source lists, guides, and other data for soliciting
           subcontractors; and

        3. Monitoring activities to evaluate compliance with the subcontracting plan.

      Additional efforts:
        _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
        _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
        _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
        ________________________

5.  Flow Down Clause

The contractor agrees to include the provisions under FAR 52.219-8, “Utilization of Small Business Concerns,” in all acquisitions  exceeding  the
simplified acquisition threshold that offers further subcontracting opportunities. All  subcontractors,  except  small  business  concerns,  that
receive subcontracts in excess of $500,000 ($1,000,000 for construction) must adopt and comply with a plan similar to the plan  required  by  FAR
52.219-9, “Small Business Subcontracting Plan.”  (Flow down is not applicable for commercial items/services as described in 52.212-5(e) and

52.244-6(c).)




6.  Reporting and Cooperation

The contractor gives assurance of  (1) cooperation in any studies or surveys that may be required; (2) submission of periodic reports which  show
compliance with the subcontracting plan; (3) submission of Standard  Form  (SF)  294,  “Subcontracting  Report  for  Individual  Contracts,”  and
attendant Optional Form 312, SDB Participation Report, if applicable, (required only for contracts containing the clause 52.219-25) and  SF  295,
“Summary Subcontract Report,” in accordance with the instructions on the forms; and (4) ensuring that subcontractors  agree  to  submit  Standard
Forms 294 and 295.



|                                  |                               |                       |
|Reporting Period                  |Report Due                     |Due Date               |
|                                  |                               |                       |
|Oct 1 - Mar 31                    |ISR                            |4/30                   |
|                                  |                               |                       |
|Apr 1 - Sept 30                   |ISR                            |10/30                  |
|                                  |                               |                       |
|Oct 1 - Sept 30                   |SSR                            |10/30                  |
|                                  |                               |                       |
|Contract Completion               |OF 312                         |30 days after          |
|                                  |                               |completion             |

Special instructions for commercial plan:  SF 295 Report is due on 10/30 each year for the previous fiscal year ending 9/30.

     a. Submit ISR to cognizant Awarding Contracting Officer.



      b.    Submit Optional Form 312, (OF-312), if applicable, to cognizant Awarding Contracting Officer.


      c.    Submit SSR to cognizant Awarding Contracting Officer and to the:

        Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
        Department of Health and Human Services
        200 Independence Avenue, SW
        Humphrey H. Building, Room 517-D
        Washington, D.C. 20201









      d.    Submit “information” copy of the SSR and the ISR upon request to the SBA Commercial Market Representative (CMR); visit the SBA at
        http://www.sba.gov/gc and click on assistance directory to locate your nearest CMR.

7.  Record keeping

FAR 19.704(a) (11) requires a list of the types of records your company will maintain to demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the
requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan.  The following is a recitation of the types of records the contractor will maintain to
demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan.  These records will include, but not be
limited to, the following:

     a. SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB source lists, guides and other data identifying such vendors;

     b. Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and VOSB sources;

     c. On a contract-by-contract basis, records on all subcontract solicitations over $100,000, which indicate for each solicitation (1)
        whether SB, SDB, WOSB, HUBZone, and/or VOSB concerns were solicited, if not, why not and the reasons solicited concerns did not receive
        subcontract awards.

     d. Records to support other outreach efforts, e.g., contacts with minority and small business trade associations, attendance at small and
        minority business procurement conferences and trade fairs;

     e. Records to support internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through (1) workshops, seminars, training programs, incentive
        awards; and (2) monitoring performance to evaluate compliance with the program and requirements; and

     f. On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support subcontract award data including the name, address, and business type and size of
        each subcontractor.  (This item is not required on a contract – by – contract basis for company or division-wide commercial plans.)

     g. Other records to support your compliance with the subcontracting plan: (Please describe)







8.  Timely Payments to Subcontractors

FAR 19.702 requires your company to establish and use procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of your
subcontracts with small business concerns, HubZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged small business concerns, veteran-owned small
business concerns and women-owned small business concerns.



Your company has established and uses such procedures:  ________  yes  _________  no


9.  Description of Good Faith Effort

Maximum practicable utilization of small, HubZone small, small disadvantaged, veteran-owned, and women-owned small business concerns as
subcontractors in Government contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and economic benefits.  When a contractor fails to make
a good faith effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are not achieved, and 15 U.S.C. 637(d) (4) (F) directs that
liquidated damages shall be paid by the contractor.  In order to demonstrate your compliance with a good faith effort to achieve the small,
HubZone, small disadvantaged, veteran-owned and women-owned small business subcontracting goals, outline the steps your company plans to take.
These steps will be negotiated with the contracting officer prior to approval of the plan.







                                                                  SIGNATURE PAGE


Signatures Required:

This subcontracting plan was submitted by:

Signature:  _________________________________________________
Typed Name: _______________________________________________
Title:      _____________________________________________________
Date: _____________________________________________________

This plan was reviewed by:

Signature:  _________________________________________________
Typed Name: _______________________________________________
Title:      ________Contracting Officer____________________________
Date: _____________________________________________________

This plan was reviewed by:

Signature:  _________________________________________________
Typed Name: _______________________________________________
Title:      ________Small Business Specialist________________________
Date: _____________________________________________________

This plan was reviewed by:

Signature:  _________________________________________________
Typed Name: _______________________________________________
Title:      ________SBA Procurement Center Representative__________
Date: _____________________________________________________

And Is Accepted By:

OPDIV:      ___________________________________________________
Typed Name: _______________________________________________
Title:      _____________________________________________________
Date: _____________________________________________________









ATTACHMENT 5
                                                                 AHRQ PORTFOLIOS

The AHRQ portfolios are used to organize and prioritize research supported by the Agency. These portfolios have become the  organizing  framework
for how Agency research is funded and how the products and findings of the research are disseminated.  Each portfolio has a  portfolio  team  and
team lead.  AHRQ’s Office of Communication and  Knowledge  transfer  (OCKT)  has  organized  its  communication and  dissemination activities  by
assigning strategic planners to work with each portfolio team.  Where appropriate, AHRQ Task Order Officers will coordinate AHRQ portfolio  teams
and OCKT's strategic planners to disseminate  and  market   Prevention/Care  Management  Technical  Assistance  Center  (PCM-TACs)  products  and
findings.

|                                  Description of AHRQ Portfolios                                                                               |
|Comparative Effectiveness                                                                                                                      |
|The mission of the comparative effectiveness portfolio is to provide health care decision makers—including patients, clinicians, purchasers,   |
|and policymakers—with up-to-date, evidence-based information about their treatment options to make informed health care decisions.             |
|Health Information Technology                                                                                                                  |
|This portfolio aims to identify challenges to health information technology (IT) adoption and use, solutions and best practices for making     |
|health IT work, and tools that will help hospitals and clinicians successfully incorporate new health IT. Research supported by the portfolio  |
|aims to develop evidence and inform policy and practice on how health IT can improve the quality of American health care. Further portfolio    |
|goals include making the best evidence and consumer health information available electronically when and where it is needed, and developing    |
|secure and private electronic health records.                                                                                                  |
| Innovations/Emerging Issues                                                                                                                   |
|At this time, the Innovations and Emerging Issues Portfolio is being established and is expected to evolve in the coming months. The portfolio |
|aims to identify and support research that has the potential to lead to significant advances in health care. Research and activities will      |
|reflect ideas substantially different from those already being pursued by AHRQ, and will constitute transformative research to solve pressing  |
|health care problems                                                                                                                           |
|Patient Safety                                                                                                                                 |
|This portfolio aims to identify risks and hazards that lead to medical errors and find ways to prevent patient injury associated with delivery |
|of health care. Important goals include: providing information on the scope and impact of medical errors, identifying the root causes of       |
|threats to patient safety, and examining effective ways to make system-level changes to help prevent errors. Disseminating and translating     |
|research findings and methods to reduce errors are also important. Additionally, the portfolio aims to develop an environment or culture within|
|health care settings that encourages health professionals to share and report information about medical errors and ways to prevent them.       |
|Prevention and Care Management                                                                                                                 |
|The mission of the prevention and care management portfolio is to improve the quality, safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of the delivery of|
|evidence-based preventive services and chronic care management in ambulatory care settings. Portfolio goals include: 1) supporting clinical    |
|decision making for preventive services through the generation of new knowledge, synthesis of evidence, and dissemination and implementation of|
|evidence-based recommendations, and 2) developing the evidence base for and implementation of activities to improve primary care and clinical  |
|outcomes through health care redesign, clinical-community linkages, self management support, integration of health information technology, and |
|care coordination.                                                                                                                             |
|Value                                                                                                                                          |
|The goal of the value portfolio is to help assure that consumers and patients are served by health care organizations that reduce unnecessary  |
|costs (waste) while maintaining or improving quality. This is done by developing measures, data, evidence, tools, and strategies that health   |
|care organizations, systems, insurers, purchasers, and policymakers use to reduce unnecessary costs while maintaining or improving quality.    |
|Strategies include process redesign, leadership and management strategies, organizational and community-wide quality improvement initiatives,  |
|legal and regulatory changes, consumer choice, public reporting, incentives, and payment changes. Also, the portfolio conducts and supports    |
|methodological work and modeling to improve data and research, and to facilitate its use for policy and management.                            |



-----------------------
[1] Barr VJ, Robinson S, Marin-Link B, Underhill L, Dotts A, Ravensdale  D  and  Salivaras  S.   2003.   The  Expanded  Chronic  Care  Model:  An
integration of concepts and strategies from population health promotion and the Chronic Care Model.  Hospital Quarterly¸7(1): 73-82.





[2] Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 1999, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information  and  Information  Systems,
February 2004.
[3] HHS Rules of Behavior, February 12, 2008.

