SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

1 SECHQ113R0020
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

31
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

08/05/2013
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

JOSEPH HAN
CODE

202-551-4048 SEC - SECHQ
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS SMALL BUSINESS HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

09/06/2013 1200 ES
SET ASIDE: % FOR:

9. ISSUED BY

X

UNRESTRICTED OR

US SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS 100 F STREET NE MAILSTOP 4226 WASHINGTON DC 20549-2000
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM EDWOSB 8(A) NAICS:

SIZE STANDARD:

13b. RATING 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X RFP

SEC - SECHQ

US SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS 100 F STREET NE MAILSTOP 4010 WASHINGTON DC 20549-2000
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE 18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

The SEC is issuing this solicitation for technical services to create and support an Inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) software solution. The SEC requests pricing for a Phase 1, Phase 2 and four (4) Option Years. RFP questions are due no later than August 16, 2013, 12:00PM EST. Proposals are no later than September 6, 2013, 12:00PM EST.
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDEND

ARE ARE

X ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF. DATED

. YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

JOHN B. BOVA
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

31
24. AMOUNT

0001

Phase 1 - Design, Development and delivery of Prototype (Section C.4)

0002

Phase 2 - Implement Solution - Optional CLIN to develop and deliver solution (Section C.5)

0003

Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements Option Period 1 (Section C.6)

0004

Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements Option Period 2 (Section C.6)

0005

Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements Option Period 3 (Section C.6)

0006

Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements Option Period 4 (Section C.6)

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) BACK

SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES / COSTS Note to Offers: Provide a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) proposal that includes a total price for CLINs 0001 (Phase 1) and 0002 (Phase 2), as well as each of the four Option Periods (CLINs 0003 through 0006). See Section L.5 on for complete instructions on preparing your price proposals. Total Price

CLIN 0001

Description Phase 1 - Design, Development and delivery of Prototype (Section C.4) C.4.1 Selection Validation C.4.2 CBE C.4.3 Prototype Wrap-up Report *Firm Fixed Price (FFP)

0002

Phase 2 - Implement Solution - Optional CLIN to develop and deliver solution (Section C.5) C.5.1 Selection Validation C.5.2 CBE C.5.3 Implementation Wrap-up report *Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements ­ Option Period 1 (Section C.6) C.6.1 SLA C.6.2 Enhancements C.6.3 Defects C.6.4 Releases (includes both enhancements and defects) *Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements ­ Option Period 2 (Section C.6) C.6.1 SLA C.6.2 Enhancements C.6.3 Defects C.6.4 Releases (includes both enhancements and defects) *Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements ­ Option Period 3 (Section C.6) C.6.1 SLA C.6.2 Enhancements C.6.3 Defects C.6.4 Releases (includes both enhancements and defects) *Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements ­ Option Period 4 (Section C.6) C.6.1 SLA C.6.2 Enhancements C.6.3 Defects C.6.4 Releases (includes both enhancements and defects) *Firm Fixed Price (FFP)

0003

0004

0005

0006

Page 3 of 31

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK C.1 Scope. The Contractor shall provide the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with technical services to create and support an Inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) software solution that enhances the ability of end users and application programmers to use SEC Interactive Data embedded into HTML documents using the Inline XBRL specification. The SEC views Interactive Data as an important way to increase access to information in the financial marketplace. Inline XBRL users should have freely available software to view, search, and extract the data in Inline XBRL documents in a variety of web browsers. In addition, the SEC intends to post the Inline XBRL software solution source code (C.3.2 and C3.3) available under the Apache 2 license to allow software developers the maximum flexibility to incorporate its functionality into their own XBRL software tools (similar to its posting of the current Rendering Engine source code). The SEC will have unlimited rights to any data (including but not limited to technical data and software products) produced in the performance of this contract in accordance with FAR 52.227-17 Rights in Data--Special Works (see Section H.18 for more information). Stakeholders that have an interest in a software solution supporting viewing and validation functionality of Inline XBRL documents include the investing public, registrants, disseminators, filing agents, financial printers, software vendors, Offices and Divisions of the SEC, XBRL US, International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation (IASCF), and XBRL International. The Inline XBRL software solution would take the form of a cross browser client side extension (plug-in) using JavaScript which would provide functionality when an Inline XBRL document is opened in required web browsers. The server-side validation functionality component would use java or python and would need to run on named operating systems. The scope of the proposed Inline XBRL software solution is independent of implementation into any existing submission platform or process and does not extend to the supply of hardware that would be needed to host a server. However, it may be assumed that external parameters available to the current EDGAR XBRL validator, including the submission type, exhibit name, registrant names and CIK's are available for the development of the server-side validation as long as the they do not violate the solution requirements. C.1.1 Background. The SEC currently requires operating companies to file XBRL-formatted attachments along with their required HTML/ASCII filings and requires investment management companies to file XBRL risk/return summaries as post-effective amendments to the mutual fund registration statements to which they relate. The SEC provides a previewer (https://datapreview.sec.gov/previewer/) and an open source "rendering engine" on its website (http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/xbrl/renderingenginelicense.htm) that allows visitors to view rendered versions of these XBRL documents. The rendering engine produces files that can be viewed in a web browser, with features such as "popup" sections for inspecting the meaning of financial statement line items. The SEC is currently assessing Inline XBRL which allows the XBRL formatted information to be embedded into a web browser-displayable HTML document. A Inline XBRL cross browser extension and validation module would provide simple functionality to allow a user to view, highlight, search, extract and validate the embedded XBRL Fact Data (no longer a separate attachment) while viewing the required HTML presentation within a web browser. SEC requires the development of a prototype to assist in the assessment of Inline XBRL (Phase 1). Once the assessment is completed the SEC will make a determination of whether Inline XBRL will be implemented (Phase 2). C.2 Applicable Documents. The Contractor shall refer to and comply with following OIT policies and procedures:

C.2.1 Federal Requirements. The following is a sample list of federal requirements consisting of laws, policies, standards and guidance that are required for information protection. The contractor will be subject to the same information protection requirements that are subject to the SEC as governed by the E-Government Act of 2002. The list that follows in not all-inclusive and the contractor must follow the same requirements as the Commission.

Page 4 of 31

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d) for system accessibility requirements; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-11, Revised, "Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget" (July 2003); OMB Circular A-130, Revised, "Management of Federal Information Resources" (November 2000); OMB Federal Enterprise Architecture Program Management Office (FEAPMO) Reference Models and Circular A-11 Guidance. www.feapmo.gov; Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579 (5 U.S.C. 552a) ; The E-Government Act of 2002, Public Law 107-347; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-12-20, FY 2012 Reporting Instructions for the Federal Information Security Management Act and Agency Privacy Management; OMB Memorandum M-03-22, OMB Guidance for Implementing the Privacy Provisions 1 of the E- Government Act of 2002, September 30, 2003; Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication (PUB) 201, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors, March 2006; FIPS PUB 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems, March 2006; FIPS PUB 197, Advanced Encryption Standard, November 2001; National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST), Special Publication (SP) 800-122, Guide for Protecting the Confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information (PII), April 2010; NIST SP 800-37, Revision 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle Approach, February 2010; NIST SP 800-115, Technical Guide to Information Security Testing and Assessment Sept 2008; NIST SP 800-100, Information Security Handbook: A Guide for Managers, Oct 2006; NIST SP 800-95, Guide to Secure Web Services, Aug 2007; NIST SP 800-92, Guide to Computer Security Log Management, Sep 2006; NIST SP 800-88, Guidelines for Media Sanitization, Sep 2006; NIST SP 800-61 Rev. 2, Computer Security Incident Handling Guide, August 2012; NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, Aug 2009; NIST SP 800-53A, Revision 1, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems, June 2010; NIST SP 800-44 Version 2, Guidelines on Securing Public Web Servers, Sep 2007; NIST SP 800-30, Revision 1, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments, September 2012; and NIST SP 800-70, Revision 2, National Checklist Program for IT Products: Guidelines for Checklist Users and Developers, February 2011. SEC Regulations. Information Technology Security Program, SECR 24-2, approved December 8, 1998. IT Security Program Technical Bulletin: Identification, Authentication and Passwords, SECR 24-2.1, April 4, 2001. Safeguarding Non-Public Information, SECR 23-2A, approved January 21, 2000; Use of SEC Office Equipment SECR 24-4.3, approved 03/08/2002; Use of Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) Devices SECR 24-5.2, approved 11/02/2002; Enterprise Architecture SECR 24-1.6, approved 11/02/2002; Certification and Accreditation SECR 24-2.4, approved 07/18/2002; Network Security SECR 24-2-7, approved 09/11/2002; Electronic Mail SECR 5-10, approved 05/20/1996; Enterprise Backup of Electronic Data SECR 24-2.6; Virus and Malicious Software Detection and Prevention SECR 24-2.2; Use of Internet Browsers and Access to the World Wide Web SECR24-3, approved 12/30/1998; Information Technology Security Program, SECR 24-04, approved 10/4/2005; Information Collection Program, SECR 24-09, approved 07/29/2009;
Page 5 of 31

C.2.2 ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

C.3 Requirements. HTML is the de facto standard for many of the electronic filings required by the SEC. The requirements described in this Statement of Work (SOW) reflect the need to: (a) account for existing SEC EDGAR HTML restrictions; (b) preserve functions of the current rendering engine not inherently supported by the Inline XBRL format alone; and (c) enable both programmatic and end-user access to the meta data implicit in the XBRL information in the document. Key to the development of the Inline XBRL software solution is a deep knowledge and expertise of the XBRL specifications. This includes a deep understanding and experience with XBRL, XBRL Dimensions, Inline XBRL, Chapter 6 of the EFM, working with DTDs and Schemas, parsing, validation, Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), style sheets, automated testing, cross-platform browser and API issues. Table 1. Definitions. Terms defined here are underlined in the Requirements section. Term EFM EDGAR HTML EDGAR Strict HTML Interactive Data Text Blocks EDGAR XHTML Definition Edgar Filer Manual, Volume II, version 20. HTML 3.2/4.0 that is accepted by EDGAR and SGML DTD valid under restrictions as specified in EFM Chapter 5 EDGAR HTML without any non-HTML tags such as <S>, <C> and <FN> defined in EFM 5.2. XHTML node sequences valid with respect to EFM 6.5.16. EDGAR Strict HTML that is also well-formed XML with no character entities. In effect, it consists of Interactive Data Text Blocks with some additional elements and attributes, to be specified. As listed on http://www.xbrl.org/SpecRecommendations, Inline XBRL 1.0 initially and subsequent versions as they reach Recommendation status in subsequent periods. As defined by the Inline XBRL Specification. As defined by the Inline XBRL Specification. As defined by the Inline XBRL Specification. As listed on page http://www.xbrl.org/SpecRecommendations and currently at Version 2 dated 10/24/2011. The namespace prefix conventionally used for the XML Namespace (http://www.w3.org/TR/RECxml-names/) of Inline XBRL elements. An Inline XBRL Document Set with Markup Elements drawn only from EDGAR XHTML. "Hosting" here may be understood as "containing" or "encapsulating", that is, an XHTML document is the "host" for the Inline XBRL. XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL for which the residue after removal of Inline XBRL elements and attributes is EDGAR XHTML. An instance document as defined to be valid in EFM Chapter 6, excluding sections requiring an XBRL presentation linkbase (6.11.3, 6.11.4, 6.11.7, 6.11.8, 6.12, 6.13.2, 6.13.3, and 6.13.4) or that limit files in the DTS of an instance to certain locations. EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL for which all Target Documents are XBRL Interactive Data. A superset of an Inline XBRL Document Set that may contain any type of XBRL 2.1 Document (Instance, Schema, or Linkbase), as well as GIF or JPG format files, all having the same Base URL. As defined in XBRL 2.1.

Inline XBRL Specification Inline XBRL Document Set Markup Elements Target Document Transformation Registry ix XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL XBRL Interactive Data XHTML Interactive Data Input Document Set

Discoverable Taxonomy Set (DTS) Interactive Data DTS

The DTS of the Target Document Set, limited to documents in the Target Document Set of the Input Document Set and files specified by EFM 6.22. EFM 6.22 refers to the "edgartaxonomies.xml" manifest whose contents change from time to time.

Page 6 of 31

Term XBRL Fact Data

XBRL Concept Data

Definition The XML text node, XML element names, XML attribute names and values, XBRL units, XBRL footnotes, XBRL contexts, XBRL periods, XBRL identifiers, XBRL dimensions and members of each XBRL fact in the Target Documents. XBRL Fact Data excludes any information requiring the DTS. The XBRL labels, XBRL references, XBRL calculations, XBRL dimensional relationships, and the XBRL roles appearing in each of those, for each element of the XBRL Fact Data.

Note: Figure 1 may be helpful in understanding the relationship of the specifications; it shows the dependencies among these terms. The Inline XBRL software solution server-side validation module is responsible only for validating against the specifications indicated in red boxes with bold italic text in Figure 1. Figure 1. Dependencies among specifications.

XHTML Interactive Data

XBRL Interactive Data

EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL

XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL

EDGAR XHTML

Inline XBRL 1.0

XHTML 1.0

Interactive Data Text Blocks

EDGAR Strict HTML

EDGAR HTML

HTML 3.2; HTML 4.0

The requirements comprise two (2) primary sections or modules, as described below. They include Selective Validation Module (Section C.3.2), and a Client-side Cross Browser Extension (Section C.3.3). C.3.1 Program Management

C.3.1.1 Project Documentation Requirements. The Inline software solution will be available to large stakeholder communities outside of the SEC. All project documentation must be complete yet simple and to the point; and must be delivered to the SEC according to the Project Schedule. This requirement applies both to development in the base period and to defect fix and enhancement releases (see Sections C.3.5 and C.3.6) in option periods. C.3.1.2 Project Management Plan and Schedule. The Contractor shall develop a Project Management Plan and Schedule that provides the necessary information for the successful management of this project. This plan must include policies, procedures, standards, instructions, and checklists that the Contractor intends to use to analyze, design, implement, test, deploy, and maintain the Inline XBRL software modules. The Contractor shall deliver the draft Project Management Plan and Schedule to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The approved plan must become the baseline for the project. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes to the plan and the reasons for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the plan for

Page 7 of 31

review and approval. (Deliverable 1). C.3.1.3 Project Status C.3.1.3.1 Monthly Status Reports. The Contractor shall provide written Monthly Status Reports, as well as conduct a weekly conference call with the COR and project manager unless otherwise agreed upon. The status reports must include matters that are essential to ensure overall success of the task including funding status, project schedule, list of milestones and deliverables met during the reporting period, accurate status of future milestones and delivery dates, complete list of defects with status and plan of action for each open defect, and an analysis of the risks that may affect successful task completion. (Deliverable 2). C.3.1.3.2 Status Meetings. The Contractor shall participate in weekly project status meetings attended by key Contractor personnel and key SEC personnel. C.3.1.4 Functional Requirements Document. The Contractor shall document any interface, functional and system requirements that are needed to satisfy the high level requirements that are listed in Sections C.3.2 through C.3.3 and to implement the Inline XBRL software modules. The requirements provided by the Contractor shall be written in clear, precise, and correct requirements language, and must include the source of each requirement (e.g. identity of the person, meeting or email, date, etc.). The Contractor shall conduct meetings to gather or clarify requirements and document decisions in meeting notes to be provided to the COR. The requirements document will be shared with both the Developer and End User panels to ensure that requirements are being addressed. The Contractor shall deliver the draft requirements document to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The approved requirements document must become the baseline for the project. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes to the requirements and the reasons for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the requirements document for review and approval (Deliverable 3). C.3.1.5 Software Design. The Contractor shall document the design of the Inline XBRL software modules. The purpose of this document is to ensure that the Contractor's approach is consistent with the user and programmer panels' expectations. This document must include all design approaches and decisions that will be implemented. The Contractor shall deliver the draft Software Design to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The approved design must become the baseline for the project. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes to the design and the reasons for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the design for review and approval (Deliverable 4). C.3.1.6 Test Plans and Quality Assurance. Quality Assurance will be exceedingly important on this contract. Testing of the Selective Validation and Client-side Cross Browser Extension across multiple platforms and browsers shall be realistically anticipated, budgeted, and planned for by the Contractor. The Contractor shall deliver the draft Test and Quality Assurance Plan to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The approved plan must become the baseline for the project. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes and the reasons for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the design for review and approval (Deliverable 5). C.3.1.7 Configuration Management (CM). The Contractor shall securely host and maintain all relevant source code, design and user documentation, test suites, feature and defect tracking in a secure manner accessible at all times to SEC staff. Use of open source packages such as Subversion, Github, Bugzilla, etc. for this purpose is preferable but not required. The Contractor shall include its own corporate configuration management (CM) processes in the CM Plan (Deliverable 6). The Contractor shall deliver the draft CM Plan to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes to the CM Plan and the reasons

Page 8 of 31

for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the design for review and approval. The Contractor shall follow the project CM Plan throughout the entire contract. C.3.2 Selective Validation. The server-side validation module must process candidate Inline XBRL Document Sets, characterize them as to whether they are valid EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL, and provide distinct signals indicating validation failures as indicated in Sections C.3.2.1 through C.3.2.3 leveraging Java or Python server-side technologies. C.3.2.1 If the documents are not valid EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL, then the server-side validation module must signal the errors that prevented it from being valid and whether it is valid XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL (see Sections C.3.2.2), Valid EDGAR XHTML (see Sections C.3.2.3), both or neither. Note these represent the extent of the scope of validation requirements (see Figure 1 dependencies among specifications (red boxes). Guidance regarding the handling of specification specific case preferences will be provided by the SEC. C.3.2.2 If a document is not valid EDGAR XHTML then the server-side validation module must signal the syntax errors that prevented it from being valid. C.3.2.3 If a document is not valid XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL, then the server-side validation module must signal the syntax errors that prevented it from being valid and in those signals distinguish whether the errors arose from Inline XBRL 1.0 syntax errors, from XHTML 1.0 syntax errors, both or neither. C.3.2.4 The server-side validation module must be able to use any Transformation Registry instead of a current version specified by the SEC web site. An instance of the server-side validation module may maintain copies of the Transformation Registry and files referenced by edgartaxonomies.xml. C.3.2.5 The server-side validation module must be able to use any edgartaxonomies.xml file instead of a current version as posted on the SEC web site as of 31 July 2013. C.3.2.6 Validation must yield equivalent results on all platforms in Figure 2 below (the "Validator Platforms"). Figure 2. Platform Variants Operating System Windows Mac OS Solaris Versions Any GA release 2005 - 2013 Any GA release 2005 - 2013 5.10 Architectures As supported by the version As supported by the version SPARC 4

C.3.3 Client-side Cross Browser Extension (CBE). The software must provide a client-side cross browser extension with the ability to both locate and inspect the XBRL Fact Data. Technologies such as JavaScript, JQuery, and XML are preferred. (NOTE: A user panel including practicing accountants and analysts appointed by the SEC will review, test, and approve the CBE User Interface.) C.3.3.1 The CBE must display the host EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL in a browser, and provide distinct highlighting for the text content of elements ix:fraction, ix:nonfraction, ix:nonnumeric, ix:exclude, ix:footnote or other Inline XBRL elements, and must reveal those elements' text content in a distinctive manner when they occur inside the ix:hidden header element. C.3.3.2 The CBE must provide the ability to reveal (e.g., pop-up box) basic XBRL Fact Data by placing a cursor over the text content shown for a fact. C.3.3.3 The CBE must provide the ability to inspect any XBRL Fact Data with a minimal number of gestures. C.3.3.4 The CBE must support pattern searches on XBRL Fact Data with on-screen highlighting. One use of a pattern search is returning a series of matched XML nodes present in the scope for display in the browser. The scope is defined
Page 9 of 31

with respect to the DOM of the Inline XBRL Document Set (although implementation via any XML parsing technology is acceptable) and it's Interactive Data DTS. Boolean flags shall indicate whether the pattern is to be found: (i) only in the text nodes, (ii) only among the contents of attributes of elements in the inline XBRL namespace, (iii) only among the text notes and attributes of the DTS of the instance This would include, for example, link:label text for elements in the instance, and the contents of attribute @dimension on element xbrldi:explicitMember), or some combination of (i), (ii) and (iii). Other variations and elaborations on these three scope partitions would be considered. The series of matches may be returned either as an iterator function (i.e., each successive invocation of the function returns the location of the next match) or as a list. The pattern shall be a string containing the metacharacters * (matches zero or more characters), [ and ] (matches any character in the range between the brackets) and \ (for quoting itself and any other character). All other characters in the pattern must be matched exactly. The match result is subject to a Boolean flag indicating whether the matches may be case insensitive (the default) or case-sensitive. A future extension may allow a pattern to contain extended POSIX regular expression syntax, with scope and series the same as above. C.3.3.5 The CBE must provide the ability to perform a transformation (e.g., Style Sheet, JavaScript) extraction on an Inline XBRL Document and save the resulting XBRL Instance document to file. C.3.3.6 The CBE must provide equivalent functions whether the Input Document Set is opened via URL or via file system. C.3.3.7 The CBE must provide the above functions when the Input Document Set is opened by Internet Explorer, Safari, Chrome, or Firefox browsers. The table below indicates the required scope of browser support (i.e., browsers versions which as of 31 July 2013 are estimate to have a market share over 5%): Browser Version Market Share % (July 2013) Chrome 28.0 16.71 IE 10.0 14.87 Firefox 22.0 11.08 Chrome 27.0 10.39 IE 8.0 7.58 IE 9.0 7.07 Safari iPad 6.28 C.3.3.8 The CBE must provide the above functions when invoked from the Windows and Mac OS versions in Figure 2 (the "CBE Platforms") without requiring additional software having separate licensing fees. C.3.3.9 The CBE must grow the permanent heap by no more than O(n) bytes, given an Input Document Set for which an XML Document Object Model (DOM) can be constructed consuming n bytes of permanent heap (See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_complexity). C.3.3.10 The CBE must allow third-party software developers to offer additional viewing and reveal features to the Inline XBRL software solution by loading (at runtime) additional modules or plugins (e.g., DTS Aware XBRL Concept Data inspector). For instance a third-party plugin could enhance the controller of the CBE to provide new functions or enhance the model of an EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL file already loaded by the CBE to provide additional information and alter its view as displayed. Taking into account that the CBE must work in multiple browsers, we believe this requirement could be satisfied as a natural consequence of developing a working prototype. However, further requirements and additional API work (if needed in future) is outside the scope of this project. The following example
Page 10 of 31

scenario is for illustrative purposes only and any modular approach is dependent on the software architecture: ˇ User A opens an EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL file. Upon initializing the view, the Inline XBRL software solution checks to see whether User A has installed additional menu options or plug-ins. User A has installed an extension module that displays XBRL Concept Data including documentation label role content. Upon viewing the file, User A has this additional menu option or plug-in. User B opens the same EDGAR XHTML Hosted Inline XBRL file. Upon initializing the view, the Inline XBRL software solution checks to see whether User B has installed additional menu options or plug-ins. User B has installed an extension module that highlights all sequences that appear to be numeric amounts but do not appear within an ix:nonfraction element. Upon viewing the file, User A now has this additional capability.

ˇ

C.3.4 Enhancements. The Inline XBRL software solution must allow for enhancements subsequently requested by SEC. Enhancements are expected to reflect taxonomy changes, new requirements based on best practices and stakeholder requirements, changes to EDGAR validations (see Sections C.3.2.1 and C.3.2.2), evolution of computing platforms (see Section C.3.2.6), new browsers (see Section C.3.3.7), new XBRL specification recommendations and other similar developments that would necessitate or motivate enhancements. C.3.5 User and Developer Panels. The COR will have user and developer panels from SEC staff to review and advise the COR on Inline XBRL software solution development. Inline XBRL software solution review points will be agreed upon between the Contractor and the COR during the submission of the project plan and schedule. C.4 Prototype

C.4.1 Selective Validation Prototype. The Contractor shall develop and deliver a Selective Validation prototype, using an iterative approach based on requirements listed in 3.2 and the approved Requirements Document. The Contractor shall provide the Selective Validation Prototype Deployment Package which includes all software, in accordance with H.18 and build instructions to SEC (Deliverable 7). C.4.2 Client-side Cross Browser Extension Prototype. The Contractor shall develop and deliver a CBE prototype using an iterative approach based on requirements listed in 3.3 and the approved Requirements Document. The Contractor shall provide the CBE Prototype Deployment Package which includes all software, in accordance with H.18 and build instructions to SEC (Deliverable 8). C.4.3 Prototype Wrap-up Report. The Contractor shall provide a Wrap-up Report summarizing outstanding feature requests, bug status, test conformance and other information needed to plan implementation activities (Deliverable 9). C.5 Implement Solution (Optional)

C.5.1 Selective Validation. The Contractor shall develop and deliver a Selective Validation solution, using an iterative approach based on requirements listed in 3.2 and the approved Requirements Document. The Contractor shall provide the Selective Validation Deployment Package, which includes all software, in accordance with H.18 and build instructions to SEC (Deliverable 10). C.5.2 Client-side Cross Browser Extension. The Contractor shall develop and deliver a CBE solution using an iterative approach based on requirements listed in 3.3 and the approved Requirements Document. The Contractor shall provide the CBE Deployment Package which includes all software, in accordance with H.18 and build instructions to SEC (Deliverable 11). C.5.3 Implementation Wrap-up Report. The Contractor shall provide an Implementation Wrap-up Report summarizing outstanding feature requests, bug status, test conformance and other information needed to plan activities in Option Periods (Deliverable 12). C.6 Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Requirements (Optional Periods)

The Contractor shall keep the tool operational and functional throughout the term of this contract. Maintenance includes

Page 11 of 31

responding to production issues, software bug fixes, changes to the software that would be required as a result of SEC Web site system upgrades, policy changes, or the release of updated versions of standard taxonomies. C. 6.1 Service Level Agreement (SLA). The Contractor shall develop SLA's for the tool. The SLA's must include response times for the creation and display of rendered documents, the availability of the contractor to respond to and address production issues, and when and how production issues and planned enhancements are deployed to production. The Contractor shall deliver the draft SLA's to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) for review; the Contractor shall incorporate feedback from the COR and must provide the COR with a final document for review and approval. The approved SLA's must become the baseline for the project. The Contractor shall notify the COR immediately of any deviations or changes to the SLAs and the reasons for the changes and provide the COR with written updates to the SLAs for review and approval. (Deliverable 13) C.6.2 Enhancements. The Contractor shall develop, support and maintain enhancements to the accepted code baseline of the Rendering Engine. Enhancements may result from modifications of existing functionality. C.6.3 Defects. The Contractor shall record promptly each reported defect in the Inline XBRL software solution and its configuration for the SEC, provide at no cost to the SEC an estimate of the effort to correct it, and manage point releases, minor releases or major releases reflecting SEC prioritization of those defects. The Contractor shall provide the list of defects and related resolution plan in the monthly status reports in accordance with C.3.1.3. C.6.4 Release Deployment Package. The Contractor shall provide all Release Deployment Packages, which includes all software, in accordance with H.18 and build instructions to SEC (Deliverable 14). SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1 Packaging and Marking. Preservation, packaging, packing and marking of all deliverable contract line items must conform to normal commercial packing standards to assure safe delivery at destination. D.2 Marking. All information submitted to the Contracting Officer or the COR, or their designated point of contact, must clearly indicate the number of the contract for which the information is being submitted. SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE E.1 Inspection and Acceptance. Inspection and acceptance of the supplies and/or services to be furnished under this contract will be performed by the COR. The COR will assess performance of Contractor personnel on an ongoing basis, and communicate the results to the Contractor. The COR will not discuss performance concerns with Contractor personnel. Should a problem arise regarding performance or the overall level of service, the contactor must have no more than three (3) business days in which to correct the problem. This may result in the removal of Contractor personnel from the award. SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F.1 Period of Performance. Phase 1 will start date of award and up to eighteen (18) months. Phase 2 will start within 10 days after acceptance of Phase I and will not exceed six (6) months. There will be four (4) option periods to follow Phase 1 and Phase 2 (See Section B). F.1.1 Option Periods. This contract has four (4) one-year option periods. If all options are exercised, the period of performance will not exceed a total of six (6) years six (6) months (the contract may be extended up to six months ­ see Section I ­ 52.217-8). If exercised, the period of performance for each successive option will begin the day after the expiration of the previous year and continue for one year. Exercise of any option requires a modification signed by an SEC Contracting Officer. F.1.2 Award of an initial contract will not obligate the Government to exercise any contractual option. Prior to exercising any option, the Government will make a determination that (1) funds are available, (2) the requirement covered by the

Page 12 of 31

option fulfills an existing need of the Government, and (3) the exercise of the option is the most advantageous method of fulfilling the Government's need, price and other factors considered. F.1.3 Failure to exercise an option must not obligate the Government to pay any charges other than the contract price including exercised options. F.2 Place of Performance. The Contractor shall perform development work at the Contractor's work site location (off-site). F.3 Schedule of Deliverables. The Contractor shall provide the deliverables in Microsoft compatible electronic format to the COR unless noted otherwise. The COR will review all deliverables and provide feedback to the Contractor within ten (10) business days. If the COR requires more time for review, the COR will notify the Contractor via email. Section C.3.1.2 C.3.1.2 C.3.1.3.1 C.3.1.4 C.3.1.4 C.3.1.5 C.3.1.5 C.3.1.6 C.3.1.6 C.3.1.7 C.3.1.7 C.4.1 C.4.2 C.4.3 C.5.1 C.5.2 C.5.3 C.6.1 C.6.4 Deliverable Project plan and schedule (Draft) Project plan and schedule (Final) Monthly Status Reports Functional Requirements Documentation (Draft) Functional Requirements Documentation (Final) Software Design Documentation (Draft) Software Design Documentation (Final) Test and Quality Assurance Plans (Draft) Test Quality Assurance Plans (Final) Configuration Management Plan (Draft) Configuration Management Plan (Final) Selective Validation Prototype Deployment Package CBE Prototype Deployment Package Prototype Wrap-up Report Selective Validation Deployment Package CBE Deployment Package Implementation Wrap-up Report Service Level Agreement (SLA) Release Deployment Packages Schedule Within seven business days after the kick-off meeting Within two business days after receiving comments from the COR or project manager Monthly Per project plan and schedule Within five business days after receiving comments from the COR Per project plan and schedule Within five business days after receiving comments from the COR Per project plan and schedule 1 Within five business days after receiving comments from the COR Per project plan and schedule Within five business days after receiving comments from the COR Within 90 days after completion of functional and design documentation 2 Within 180 days after completion of functional and design documentation Per project plan and schedule Per project plan and schedule Per project plan and schedule Per project plan and schedule Per project plan and schedule Per project plan and schedule

F.3.1 Documenting, Inspecting, and Accepting Contract Deliverables. The Contractor shall submit all deliverables requiring a transmittal sheet with either the attached Deliverable Transmittal sheet or an alternative transmittal sheet that contains substantially the same information. F.4 Place of Delivery. The deliverables to be furnished under this contract must be delivered to the following addresses:

1 2

Testing and evaluation must be performed iteratively during the development cycle before final testing and quality assurance of the Inline XBRL software. Because of the constraints C.3.2 places on the functionality of C.3.3, development should be performed in parallel.

Page 13 of 31

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Station Place 100 F Street NE Washington, D.C. 20549 F.5 Hours of Performance. The Contractor shall provide support during normal business hours on all Federal Government business days during the term of the contract. This support must occur during normal business hours between 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM. EST, Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays and official Federal Government closures in the Metropolitan DC area. However, the SEC may require services outside of regular business hours. Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis and must be pre-approved by the Government COR. The actual daily start and stop times must be coordinated with, and approved by, the COR. SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATIVE DATA G.1 Appointment of Contracting Officer's Representative.

G.1.1 The Contracting Officer must appoint a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) which will be noted in the contract. The COR has no authority regarding the terms and conditions of the contract. The COR may not re-delegate his or her authority. G.1.2 The COR will act as the liaison to coordinate activities between the Contractor and Contracting Officer, as required, in the performance of the work under this contract. G.1.3 Only the Contracting Officer has the authority to change the terms and conditions of this contract. The COR may not agree to or issue a change to the contract terms and conditions. In the event the Contractor effects changes to the contract at the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the changes will be considered to have been made without any authority and no adjustments will be made to the contract. G.2 Invoicing Instructions.

G.2.1 Electronic Invoicing. Contractors may submit invoices in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. §3903) and the Prompt Payment Provision of the contract. Contractors are cautioned against submitting an invoice prior to goods and services being received/accepted. Invoices submitted prematurely may be rejected. Contractors may submit invoices via email instead of hardcopy. In order to expedite receipt and payment of invoices, SEC recommends that all invoices and required supporting documentation be submitted via e-mail. If this option is selected, then no duplicate copies should be sent via the US Postal Service or courier. If you have any questions regarding Electronic Invoicing, please contact Office of Financial Management (OFM), 202-551-7860. G.2.2 Invoice Instructions (Paper or Electronic). Invoices must contain the following information or they will be rejected: Company logo or letterhead that matches the name of the contract awardee; Company name and payment address; Company point of contact (POC) for the invoice with phone and email; Invoice Number; SEC Contract or Order number; SEC COR, IAO or other POC name; For supplies: contract line item number, item description, quantity delivered, and unit and extended price, per Section B CLIN structure; h. For services: contract line item number, item description, period of performance and associated costs, per Section B CLIN structure; i. Shipping and handling charges, if applicable; j. Clearly mark duplicates of previous invoice submissions with "DUPLICATE"; and, k. Clearly mark the final invoice with "FINAL INVOICE." a. b. c. d. e. f. g.

Page 14 of 31

G.2.3 E-Mail Message Instructions. If the Contractor chooses to submit an invoice via email, the following information must be in the e-mail: a. Subject Line: Company name and the invoice number; b. E-Mail Message: i. Company POC with contact information; ii. Invoice number; iii. Contract or Order number; and iv. SEC COR, IAO or other POC name; c. Attach the invoice and any supporting documents in a secure tamper-proof or tamper-resistant format compatible with Adobe Acrobat; d. The Invoice must contain the following information: i. Company logo or letterhead that matches the name of the contract awardee; ii. Company name and payment address; iii. Company point of contact (POC) for the invoice with phone and email; iv. Invoice Number; v. SEC Contract or Order number; vi. SEC COR, IAO or other POC name; vii. For supplies: contract line item number, item description, quantity delivered, and unit and extended price, per Section B CLIN structure; viii. For services: contract line item number, item description, period of performance and associated costs, per Section B CLIN structure; ix. Shipping and handling charges, if applicable; x. Clearly mark duplicates of previous invoice submissions with "DUPLICATE"; and xi. Clearly mark the final invoice with "FINAL INVOICE." e. Electronic signatures are acceptable in scanned documents. Each page of a document must be clearly marked with information identifying it with the company, the contract, the invoice, and any other information required by the contract; f. E-mail invoices to the following address: 9-AMC-AMZ-SEC-Invoices@faa.gov. G.2.4 Mailing Invoices. If you opt not to participate in electronic invoicing, send paper invoices to: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Office of Financial Management (OFM) 100 F Street, NE MS-6720 Washington, DC 20549 Telephone: (202) 551-7860 Email: 9-AMC-AMZ-SEC-Invoices@faa.gov Vendors are encouraged to submit invoices electronically rather than through the mail using this e-mail address: 9-AMCAMZ-SEC-Invoices@faa.gov. G.2.5 COR. The Contractor is requested to e-mail a courtesy copy of the invoice and supporting documents to the COR. G.2.6 Invoicing Schedule. The Contractor shall invoice monthly after the acceptance of the Monthly Status Report. G.2.7 Prompt Payment Act. Payments will be made in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. §3903). Payments will be made within 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice. The Prompt Payment Act clock starts when a proper invoice is received at the SEC OFM office. G.3 Contract Administration. This contract will be administered by the Office of Acquisitions of the SEC. All inquiries should be directed to the Contracting Officer/Contract Specialist at the following address:

Page 15 of 31

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Office of Acquisitions 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Attn: Joseph Han, Contract Specialist Telephone: (202) 551-4048 E-mail: hanso@sec.gov SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 Type of Contract. It is anticipated that this contract will be awarded on a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) (CLIN 0001 0006). H.2 Security and Privacy Act Matters. The security classification for work performed under this contract is Public Trust. The documents that must be reviewed and produced are non-public and sensitive in nature and must be protected from unauthorized disclosure. Work on this project request that personnel have access to Privacy Act Information. Personnel must adhere to the Privacy Act, Title 5 of the U.S. Code, Section 552a and applicable agency rules and regulations. H.2.1 Compliance with Security Regulations, Policies and Procedures. The Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by its employees with SEC security regulations, policies, and procedures. This includes safekeeping, wearing, and visibility of identification badges. The SEC will issue Contractor identification badges to on-site Contractor personnel, and the badges must be visible at all times while employees are on SEC premises. The Contractor shall provide all requested information (the SEC will provide forms to the Contractor at time of award) required to facilitate issuance of identification badges and must conform to applicable regulations concerning the use and possession of the badges. The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that all identification badges issued to the Contractor employees are returned within forty-eight (48) hours following the completion of the contract, relocation, or termination of an employee and/or request of the Contracting Officer or the COR. H.3 Conflicts of Interest.

(a) General. Subpart 9.5 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation 48 C.F.R. 9.5, prescribes responsibilities, general rules, and procedures for identifying, evaluating, and resolving organization conflicts of interest. (b) Purpose. The purpose of this clause is to avoid, neutralize, or otherwise mitigate organizational conflicts of interest which might exist related to a Contractor's performance of work required by this contract. Such conflicts may arise in situations including, but not limited to: a Contractor's participation, as an Offeror or representative of an Offeror, in a procurement in which it has provided assistance in the preparation of the Government's requirements and specifications; a Contractor's providing advisory assistance to the Government in a procurement in which the Contractor's firm or one which the Contractor represents is an actual or potential Offeror; and a Contractor's participation, as an Offeror or representative of an Offeror, in a procurement where the Contractor has obtained confidential or proprietary information relating to competing Offerors as a result of the Contractor's work on prior task orders. (c) Definition. For purposes of this clause, the term "Contractor" means: The Contractor; any of the Contractor's parents, affiliates or other entities in which the Contractor or such parents or affiliates have a financial interest; successors in interest to the Contractor or any of its parents or affiliates; proposed consultants or subcontractors at any tier; and employees thereof. (d) Restrictions. The Contractor agrees: 1. To remain ineligible to participate in any capacity (including participating as a prime Contractor, subcontractor, or as the representative of another party) in contracts, subcontracts, or Proposal (whether solicited or unsolicited) that directly relate to the Contractor's performance of work under this Contract. 2. Prior to beginning work on a task order, to execute such Confidentiality Agreements, Statements of NonDisclosure or other documents which the Contracting Officer may, in his/her sole discretion, require in order to protect the proprietary nature or confidentiality of information provided by the Government or otherwise received by the Contractor in connection with its work under this Contract.

Page 16 of 31

3. As otherwise provided in this Contract, not to accept any compensation or any other form of payment from a broker, potential lessor, or any source other than the Government for services rendered under this Contract, and to employ aggressive strategies to minimize the Government's lease costs where the Contractor would entitled by common business practice to receive a real estate commission or any form of payment from a broker, potential lessor, or other party, for work performed under this Contract. 4. To immediately notify the Contracting Officer of any offer of compensation, other form of payment, or thing of value, made by a broker, potential lessor, or any source other than the Government to the Contractor related to services rendered under this Contract, regardless of whether such offer was made during Contractor's performance of work under a given task order or subsequent to Contractor's completion of work under such task order. 5. Prior to the acceptance of a task order request, to immediately notify the Contracting Officer of any potential conflict of interest, which would prevent or limit the Contractor's ability to perform the work requested. 6. To immediately notify the Contracting Officer of any conflict of interest discovered during Contractor's performance of work pursuant to a Government issued task order; provided that the Contracting Officer must have the right to impose such restrictions as he/she deems appropriate on Contractor's performance based on the existence of such a conflict or, if the Contracting Officer determines that such restrictions would not adequately address the conflict of interest at issue, to terminate the Contractor's performance of work under the task order at no cost to the Government. 7. As otherwise provided in this Contract, that if the Contractor declines to accept a task order request and subsequently participates (either directly or as a representative of another party) in a Government contracting action that was the subject of the task order request, then the fee which the Contractor would have been entitled to receive for such task order work or the fee actually paid by the Government for the task order's performance by another Contractor, whichever is greater, must be applied toward the Contractor's minimum ordering guarantee. 8. That in the event that Contractor knowingly withholds the existence of a conflict of interest from the Government, that the Contracting Officer may terminate this Contract at no cost to the Government and any minimum guarantee(s) otherwise applicable to the Contractor will be forfeited; provided, that the foregoing must be in addition to all other remedies and causes of action which the Government may have against the Contractor, including the suspension and/or debarment of the Contractor. 9. To include this Conflict of Interest clause, including this subparagraph, in all of the Contractor's subcontracts at all tiers (appropriately modified to preserve the Government's rights hereunder) which involve the performance of work by subcontractors in support of this Contract. 10. That, in addition to the remedies enumerated above, the Government may terminate this Contract for cause in the event of the Contractor's breach of any of the above restrictions. H.4 Compliance with Regulations. The Contractor shall comply with all statutes, regulations, directives, instructions, and references applicable to the conduct of this acquisition as imposed by the Federal Government and the SEC, including, without limitation, those specified or referred to in this contract. The Contractor and its employees must become acquainted with and must comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC's facilities, including, but not limited to security, controlled access, personnel clearances, and conduct with respect to health and safety at the site, regardless of whether or not title to the facility is vested in the SEC. H.5 Non-Disclosure Requirements. Required non-disclosure forms are attached and must be completed and returned to the Contracting Officer before starting work under this contract. H.5.1 Restrictions on Use, Disclosure, and Duplication of Confidential and Non-Public Information. Confidential and non-public information, for purposes of this clause but is not limited to, all financial, statistical, personnel and/or technical data which is furnished, produced, generated, or otherwise available to the Contractor, during the performance of this contract. Unless otherwise specified, confidential and non-public information must not be used for purposes other than performance of work under this contract without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor, and its employees, agents, subcontractors, and subcontractor personnel are restricted from duplicating or disclosing confidential or non-public information, in whole or in part, outside the SEC for purposes other than fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract. Any presentation of any confidential or non-public information, or any reports or material derived from confidential or non-public information must be subject to review of the Contracting

Page 17 of 31

Officer prior to publication or dissemination. Any questions about whether information is confidential or non-public must be referred to the Contracting Officer prior to use disclosure or duplication. H.5.2 Non-Disclosure Agreement for Confidential and Non-Public Information. Rules 3(b)(1) and 3(b)(7) of the SEC's conduct regulation (17 C.F.R. 200.735-3(b)(1) and (7)) expressly prohibit unauthorized disclosure and improper use of confidential or non-public information or documents. The Contractor, and its employees, agents, subcontractors, and subcontractor personnel who will have access to confidential or non-public information or documents in the performance of the contract, agree to be bound by the provisions of rules 3(b)(1) and 3(b)(7) of the SEC's conduct regulation and the terms set forth in the attached non-disclosure agreements (Attachments 1 & 2). The Contractor and all personnel assigned to the contract agree not to divulge to any unauthorized person non-public or confidential information obtained from the SEC in performance of their duties under the contract. The Contractor and all employees, agents, subcontractors and subcontractor personnel who will have access to confidential or non-public information or documents during the performance of their duties under the contract must execute the attached Non-Disclosure Agreements (Attachments 1 & 2) as applicable and return it to the Contracting Officer before being given access to such information or documents. Violation of this clause by the Contractor, its employees, agents, subcontractors, or subcontractor personnel may result in default of the contract and/or civil suits and/or criminal prosecution. H.5.3 SEC Non-Disclosure Agreement. The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a list of its employees, agents, and subcontractors that will be authorized access to SEC information by virtue of performing the requirements set forth in this contract. Each person identified on the list must then sign a non-disclosure agreement (Attachment 1) and submit it to the Contracting Officer before starting work at the SEC. The Contractor shall also ensure that all of its employees, agents, and subcontractors assigned to perform the requirements set forth in this contract adhere to the terms of the non-disclosure agreement, protecting all confidential or non-public information. Assignment of staff who has not executed the non-disclosure agreement or failure to adhere to this statement must result in action by the Contracting Officer, as deemed appropriate. H.6 Background Investigations.

H.6.1 Pre-Employment Check. The Contractor shall be subject to a complete pre-employment check, which will be completed by the SEC. The pre-employment check must include a background investigation of each proposed employee under this contract to determine suitability for employment on the basis of qualifications for the job. The Contractor shall submit U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Standard Form 85P for each prospective employee. OPM Standard Form 85P is available at http://www.opm.gov/forms. The Government reserves the right of final approval for prospective employees. The pre-employment check must include, but not be limited to the checks identified below. The Contractor shall make its best efforts to provide employees that pass the SEC's security screening. Failure of employee(s) to pass the security screening is not a justifiable cause for schedule slippages. The SEC is currently revising its security processes and there may be a change to this process by time of award. H.6.2 Criminal History Check. The SEC may contact local law enforcement authorities and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to determine the criminal history of each prospective contract employee. H.6.3 Credit History Check. Credit history must evidence the Contract employee to be responsible with credit obligations. A Contract employee receiving an unfavorable credit rating must be approved by the COR prior to acceptance to this Contract. In the event of an unsatisfactory credit rating, the Contractor shall submit an explanation of the circumstances and the employee must not be assigned to the contract prior to Contracting Officer approval. H.6.4 Background Checks. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained in SEC filings and concerns regarding the security and integrity of this information, the SEC may conduct background checks of proposed key personnel in addition to reference checks. It must be the responsibility of the Contractor throughout the life of this contract to inform the SEC of any changes in its key personnel so that the appropriate background and reference checks may be conducted. The Contractor also agrees to include the substance of this clause in any of its subcontracts.

Page 18 of 31

The Contractor shall conduct a background investigation regarding the criminal record and credit history of all employees who will be assigned to work on the contract. The Contractor shall not assign to work on the contract and must immediately remove from work on the contract any employee who has been convicted within the past ten years of fraud or any other felony. The Contractor shall certify to the SEC that a background investigation has been conducted on each employee who is assigned to work on the contract. The Contractor shall conduct follow-up background investigations every twelve months on each employee assigned to the contract, unless the SEC directs otherwise. H.7 Personnel. The Contractor shall provide skilled personnel required for the effective and efficient performance of this contract. The SEC reserves the right to review all resumes of all personnel assigned to this contract and the results of the background investigations conducted by the Contractor. The SEC has the right to require the removal of any Contractor personnel assigned to this contract, at any time, for any reason. H.7.1 Key Personnel. The Contractor shall designate specific key personnel who are essential to the successful performance of this contract. The Contractor shall propose key persons meeting the following description: H.7.1.1 Applications Engineer. This position of technical lead must be responsible for adhering to industry best practices in choosing the appropriate development process, gathering and agreeing upon functional and non-functional requirements, choosing the appropriate software architecture and design, constructing and documenting code, profiling and performance measurement and optimization, conducting integration activities in a secure environment, and deploying the software to production. Must have deep understanding of XBRL, XBRL Dimensions, Inline XBRL and a working knowledge of Chapter 6 of the EFM with at least four years of software development experience on projects involving XBRL. Must have experience working with DTDs and Schemas, parsing, validation, HyperText Markup Language (HTML), stylesheets, automated testing, cross-platform browser and API issues. H.7.1.2 Contractor Substitution of Key Personnel. Following award, and throughout the life of this contract, the Contractor shall permit no substitution of key personnel without the written consent of the Contracting Officer, unless such substitutions are necessitated by an individual's sudden illness, death or termination of employment. In the event that substitution of personnel is desired, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least thirty (30) calendar days before any key personnel substitution is made, if possible. The Contractor shall submit a justification in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the contract or its performance, with the resume of the proposed replacement personnel. The Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's written approval prior to any changes in the contract participation of the personnel named as key personnel. Proposed substitute personnel must have experience and education at least substantially equal to those of the personnel being replaced. Requests for substitutions must provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating such changes, a resume for each proposed substitute, and any other information as requested by the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer will evaluate such requests and promptly notify the Contractor of approval or disapproval thereof. H.7.2 Contractor Responsibilities/Standards of Conduct. The Contractor shall furnish all managerial, supervisory, and personnel to successfully, effectively, and efficiently accomplish all work required by this contract. Contractor personnel are employees of the Contractor and under its administrative control and supervision. Contractor personnel are not employees of the Government. The Contractor shall select, supervise and exercise control and direction over its employees under this contract. The SEC will not exercise any supervision over the Contractor's employees, but may, in coordination with Contractor management, provide sufficient direction to contractor personnel to ensure that the purposes of the contract are met and the government's interests are protected. Contractor shall be responsible for: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Approving time cards of its employees; Approving leave requests of its employees; Performing performance evaluations of its employees; Making hiring and firing decisions for its employees;
Page 19 of 31

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Informing its employees that they are not employees of the SEC and have not received an appointment in the federal service; Informing its employees that they are not to accept direction from employees of the SEC beyond that required to accomplish the purposes of the Contract; Informing its employees that the Contractor is responsible for approval of their time cards, leave requests, performance evaluations, and for hiring and firing decisions; Directing their employees to identify themselves in their communications (and in their work product as appropriate) as contractors rather than SEC or Federal employees, and ensuring that they in fact do so; Directing their employees to display their distinguishing badges or other visible identification of their status as contractors at meetings with government or outside personnel; and Considering during their performance of the contract whether any actions they are taking would limit the ability of an SEC employee to exercise discretion on an inherently governmental function and bring such actions to the attention of the COR.

The Contractor is accountable to the SEC for the actions of its personnel. The Contractor's employees, when on-site at SEC facilities under this contract, must only engage in duties specified in the statement of work, task order, or other work statement, and not in other business, or political, charitable, or other duties. The Contractor shall not recruit on SEC premises or otherwise act to disrupt official SEC business. The Contractor shall be responsible when its employees are onsite at the SEC for maintaining satisfactory standards of employee competency, conduct, appearance, and integrity, and must be responsible for taking such disciplinary action with respect to its employees as may be necessary. Contractor employees are expected to adhere to standards of conduct that reflect credit on themselves, their employer, the SEC, and the Federal Government. H.8 Section 508 Requirements. Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, all electronic and information technology (EIT) products and services developed, acquired, maintained, and/or used under this contract/order must comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Provisions set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as the "Access Board") in FAR 39.2.The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/provisions.htm. All EIT products must comply with the following standards. Descriptions of the standards are viewable at the link Section 508 Standards. ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 21-Software applications and operating systems ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 22-Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 23-Telecommunication Products ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 24-Video and Multimedia Products ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 25-Self-contained, closed products ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 26-Desktop and Portable Computers ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 31-Functional Performance Criteria ˇ 36 CFR 1194 Section 41-Information, documentation, and support Offerors that fail to demonstrate compliance with the above standards, or provide equivalent salient characteristics, may be eliminated from further consideration for award. The Contractor shall indicate for each line item in the schedule whether each product or service is compliant or noncompliant with the accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194 using a Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT). Further, the proposal must indicate where full details of compliance can be found (e.g., vendor's website or other exact location). The offeror further represents that all EIT products and services that are less than fully compliant have been reviewed and plans to correct are in place. Respondents to this solicitation must provide any additional detailed information necessary for determining applicable Section 508 standards conformance, as well as for documenting EIT products and/or services that are incidental to the project, which would constitute an exception to Section 508 requirements. If a vendor claims its products and/or services,
Page 20 of 31

including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, meet applicable Section 508 standards, and it is later determined by the Government ­ i.e., after award of a contract/order, that products and/or services delivered do not conform to the described accessibility, remediation of the products and/or services to the level of conformance specified in the contract will be the responsibility of the Contractor at its expense. H.8.1 Electronic and Information Technology (EIT). In accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), all EIT supplies or services provided under this contract must comply with the applicable accessibility standards issued by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board at 36 CFR Part 1194 (see FAR Subpart 39.2). Electronic and information technology (EIT) is defined at FAR 2.101. H.8.2 Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility. Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract must comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194 Subpart B-D). If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing. The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing. If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government must have the following recourses: Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase or line item without termination liabilities; or, In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed for the Government, the Government must have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm and the contractor shall reimburse the Government for any expenses incurred thereby. For every EIT product or service accepted under this contract by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either the planned refresh cycle of the product or service, or on the contract renewal date, whichever must occur first. In the event of a modification(s) to this contract/order, which adds new EIT products and services or revises the type of, or specifications for, products and services the Contractor is to provide, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, the Contracting Officer may require that the Contractor provide an update of information provided in the solicitation to identify EIT compliance. Under any maintenance agreement, Contractor agrees to maintain compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 for all hardware/software. H.9 Personally Identifiable Information (PII) (Jun 2013). A Contractor that designs, develops, or operates a system of records on individuals, or otherwise collects or has access to personally identifiable information (PII) in the performance of this contract shall, prior to taking such action, comply with the following requirements: (a) The Contractor shall have established policies and procedures in place to safeguard SEC PII. The policies and procedures shall provide the Contractor's processes for identifying, assessing and mitigating privacy risks associated with PII. The policies and procedures shall also cover training of employees on their roles and responsibilities for safeguarding SEC PII and incident management of suspected or confirmed loss of SEC PII in accordance with OMB's Recommendations for Identity Theft Related Data Breach Notification, September 20, 2006, and OMB Memorandum M07-16, Safeguarding Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information, May 22, 2007. (b) The Contractor shall also ensure that all processes, procedures and equipment associated with PII comply with all laws, regulations, and security mandates as defined by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-61 Revision 1 and are aligned with the incident categories and timelines referenced in Table J-1 of NIST SP 800-61, as well as U.S. government and SEC policies developed to safeguard the confidentially, integrity and availability of SEC data that may contain PII. In support of these requirements, the Contractor shall have: ˇ policies, procedures, and mechanisms designed to restrict access to SEC data on Contractor, subcontractor, or SEC inter/intra agency partner systems exclusively to authorized personnel;

Page 21 of 31

ˇ ˇ ˇ

policies, procedures, and mechanisms that prevent transmission or disclosure of SEC data to an unauthorized party; policies, procedures, and mechanisms that ensure SEC data on portable devices are encrypted using methods compliant with Information Processing Standard 140-2; and policies, procedures, and mechanisms that ensure SEC data transmitted across public networks (i.e., the Internet) by the Contractor, or its employees, agents or subcontractors, are protected using encryption compliant with Federal Information Processing Standard 140-2.

(c) The Contractor shall provide quarterly assessments to the SEC demonstrating that the policies, procedures, and mechanisms required by (b) continue to be functional, that the Contractor is compliant with these requirements, and that these requirements are effective. (d) The Contractor shall provide a copy of its privacy policies to the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall also provide a copy of the policies and procedures (or otherwise make such policies and procedures available) to all of its employees, agents, and subcontractors assigned to perform the requirements set forth in this contract. (e) The Contractor shall ensure that those individuals adhere to the Contractor's policies and procedures relating to PII and to SEC-prescribed policies and procedures for the safe handling of SEC PII, including privacy and security training requirements and privacy incident management. (f) The Contractor's employees, agents, and subcontractors shall immediately alert the SEC of any event, including the suspected or confirmed loss of SEC PII, that could potentially affect the privacy rights of individuals or which violates any federal law, regulation, mandate or requirement as defined in NIST 800-122 by contacting the SEC Information Systems Security point of contact and the SEC Incident Response Team at cops@sec.gov. The Contractor shall act in accordance with its policies and procedures in the event of any suspected loss of SEC PII and shall support the SEC's investigation and resolution of reported incidents as requested by the SEC. For purposes of this Clause, a "suspected loss of PII" shall be interpreted liberally to mean any situation in which the loss of PII or unapproved access to PII is deemed a reasonable possibility. H.10 Disaster Recovery. Contractor shall create and implement policies, processes and procedures to address the information system security requirements needed for disaster recovery in the event of a disruption of the information service(s) provided. This includes regular review and test of a disaster recovery plan(s) related to recovering the information service(s) provided. Results of all disaster recovery plan tests, exercises or actual events, including but not limited to after-action reports, lessons learned and plan updates will be made available to SEC for review within ten (10) working days of a request by SEC. Furthermore, SEC will be provided a point of contact for disaster recovery planning and exercise for the information service(s) provided. H.11 Approval of Subcontracts. The Government reserves the right to approve or disapprove any subcontract and any subcontractor selected. Therefore, the Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's approval of all subcontractors and provide copies of subcontracts for any work required by this contract. H.12 Travel. There will be no reimbursement for travel expenses incurred within the Washington, DC metropolitan area. In the event that a requirement for travel outside of the Washington DC metropolitan area arises, travel must be preapproved by the COR by submitting travel plans with names, dates, locations and estimated expenses at least two weeks in advance of the planned travel. If the place of performance is other than the SEC Headquarters or Operations Center, travel may be allowable and reimbursable subject to the following limitations: 1. Any subsistence allowance (i.e., meals and lodging) is limited by a per diem allowance prescribed by the Federal per diem schedule - http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentId=17943&contentType=GSA_BASIC; 2. Expenses incurred as a result of travel using a personal automobile are reimbursed as prescribed on the link above; 3. Reimbursement of air and train travel is limited to the most economical rate and reasonably traveled route; and 4. Each out-of-pocket travel and allowable miscellaneous administrative expense exceeding $75 requires a receipt that is to be attached to the invoice. The Contractor shall submit the required documentation to the COR no later than five (5) business days after completion of each trip. In most cases travel may be one trip per month for 1-2 days; in some
Page 22 of 31

circumstances it may be two day trips. If travel is allowable the SEC follows the Federal Travel Regulation regarding use of government rates for travel. H.13 Government-Furnished Equipment. With the exception of incidental items associated with on-site performance (furniture, desktop computers, copiers, etc...), the Contractor shall furnish all personnel, management, equipment, supplies, and services necessary for performance of all aspects of the contract. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the Contractor is responsible for all costs associated with and incurred as part of providing the services outlined in this contract. NOTE: Items such as handheld devices and laptops will not to be provided. H.14 Common Security Configurations. Common security configurations are published on NIST's web site http://checklists.nist.gov. NIST's Computer Security Division website is located at http://csrc.nist.gov. For more information about the security content automation program, see http://nvd.nist.gov/scap.cfm. NIST Special Publication 800-70, `Security Configuration Checklist Program for IT Products,' is located at http://csrc.nist.gov/checklists/SP800-70DRAFT.pdf. H.15 Use of Contractor Data and/or Materials. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees to the following: The SEC anticipates using the data and/or materials to conduct analyses for use in reports, studies, memoranda, and presentations. The SEC anticipates the following types of situation where analyses based on underlying data may be made public: by the SEC itself (E.g., SEC rulemaking and/or analysis done as part of an inspection or enforcement action), by SEC staff where the SEC is directing or facilitating the publication (e.g., a staff study in response to a Congressional request), by SEC staff facilitating their own private publication where the Commission has not taken a position regarding the publication of the analysis(e.g., a research report to be submitted by the individual staff to an academic conference or journal), and a former employee of the SEC who has substantially completed the analysis while on staff and is facilitating his/her own private publication( e.g., a research report to be submitted to an academic conference or journal). In all of these situations, only `insubstantial amounts' of the licensed data and/or material would be made public and no raw data would be made public, the authors would agree to abide by all contractual terms and conditions, and as the owner/licensor of the data the Contractor would receive attribution and be cited as the data source. `Insubstantial amounts' means an amount that has no independent commercial value and could not be used as a substitute for the service or product or any part of it. H.16 Disaster Recovery. Contractor shall create and implement policies, processes and procedures to address the information system security requirements needed for disaster recovery in the event of a disruption of the information service(s) provided. This includes regular review and test of a disaster recovery plan(s) related to recovering the information service(s) provided. Results of all disaster recovery plan tests, exercises or actual events, including but not limited to after-action reports, lessons learned and plan updates will be made available to SEC for review within ten (10) working days of a request by SEC. Furthermore, SEC will be provided a point of contact for disaster recovery planning and exercise for the information service(s) provided. H.17 IT Security Training (1) Contract and subcontract staff with access to SEC computer systems must complete the SEC Rules of the Road training course at http://adc-ad-mossfe1/sites/ofa/irm/policy/Attachments/RoR_PDF/SECR24-04A01_Rules_of_the_Road.pdf within 5 days of the start of the contract or a new employee's start date in accordance with OMB Circular A-130 Appendix III. (2) An annual computer security awareness refresher must be completed on a schedule announced by SEC each year. Additional training may be required whenever there is a significant change in the Commission information system environment or procedures or when an employee enters a new position that requires additional role-specific training in accordance with 5 CFR 930.301(5)(d). (3) Contract personnel designated by the government as having `significant IT security responsibilities' will be required to take security training related to their role as directed by the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). (4) Within 5 days after contract award, the Contractor shall certify in writing to the COR that its employees, in

Page 23 of 31

performance of the contract have completed initial IT security orientation training in SEC IT Security policies, procedures, computer ethics, and best practices. Annually thereafter the Contractor shall certify in writing to the COR that its employees, in performance of the contract, have completed annual refresher training. A list of employees having completed the training will accompany these certifications. These certifications are considered to be deliverables under the terms of the contract. (5) The COR will inform the Contractor of any other available SEC training resources. H.18 Intellectual Property. The SEC will obtain and the Contractor shall assign and deliver to the SEC all the contractor's rights, including without limitation all copyrights, in the software first produced in the performance of this contract, all as provided in FAR 52.227-17, Rights in Data ­ Special Works. The term "software" must include, without limitation, source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the software to be produced, created, or compiled. As to any pre-existing software incorporated into a deliverable under the contract, the Contractor shall obtain, assign, and deliver to the SEC intellectual property rights sufficient to permit the SEC to use, disclose, and reproduce such software, to prepare derivative works, to distribute copies to the public, and to perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. Software vendors in the private and commercial sectors are expected to want the source code as the basis for their SEC Interactive Data applications. The source code will be made publicly available, subject to a permissive licensing scheme that would allow incorporation of the software into other works. The contractor would also have access to the source code on this basis. H.19 Contractor Performance Evaluation (May 2013). Prior to the exercise of an option under the contract/order or at the end of the conclusion of work under the contract/order, the SEC will submit an electronic record of the Contractor's performance to the Contractors Performance Assessment Retrieval System (CPARS) for processing. Once the evaluation is processed in CPARS, it will be made available in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) for Government use in evaluating the Contractor's past performance as part of a source selection action. No later than 30 days after award, the Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer with: ˇ the name, ˇ position title, ˇ phone number, and ˇ email address of the Contractor's representative designated to have access to the evaluation for this contract. The Contracting Officer will ensure that the information regarding the Contractor's designated representative is provided to the SEC Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System Focal Point. The Contractor's designated representative will have the ability to review, comment, and state whether or not the Contractor agrees with the evaluation and return the evaluation to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) within 30 calendar days after its receipt. If the Contractor desires a meeting to discuss the evaluation, it must be requested, in writing, no later than seven calendar days from the receipt of the evaluation. This meeting will be held during the Contractor's 30-calendar day review period. If after the meeting, the Contractor disagrees with assessment, the Contractor may request that the Office of Acquisition Operations Branch Chief resolve the matter. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Contractor to inform the Contracting Officer or COR of any changes to the Contractor's designated representative. Any such changes do not require a modification to the terms and conditions of the contract/order. H.20 Communicating Non-public or Sensitive Information (May 1, 2013). When communicating "Non-public or Sensitive information" via email, during the period of this contract, the Contractor shall submit all such communications
Page 24 of 31

using Zixmail. ZixMail encrypts outgoing messages, decrypts and validates incoming messages, and authenticates both the sender's and recipient's e-mail identities. The Contractor shall use the following instructions for using Zixmail:* Login at U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Secure Email Password Authorization. View message under the "Inbox" tab or create and send new messages from the "Compose" tab. Messages are created and sent similar to a typical e-mail messaging system and include: recipients, CC, subject line, body and attachments. *Notes: The Contractor shall register a new account first at U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Secure Email Password Authorization prior to reading or sending encrypted messages. The Contractor will be provided with a link to create an account the first time you send them an encrypted message. This link will also be used by the Contractor subsequently to read and compose messages. The Contractor can only send encrypted e-mail messages from the ZixMail portal to SEC employees. All e-mail contents, including attachments, are encrypted when sent using this method." H.21 Supplies (Jan. 2013). The Contractor shall provide all supplies to support the requirements of this award. The SEC will not provide supplies used in the normal daily performance of work such as note paper, pens, calendars, staplers, etc. If there is a need for specific supplies required by the performance of the work, the Contractor's Program Manager shall notify the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). H.22 Intellectual Property Rights. The SEC is licensing commercial items under this Contract, and the parties' intellectual property rights are governed generally by Section I, clauses 52.227-14, Alt. III, and 52.227-15. Under clause 52.227-14, the SEC shall have unlimited rights in any data first produced in performance of this Contract. H.23 Software Warranty. The Contractor shall guarantee the application code for ninety (90) business days from the date of implementation. In the event that defects are discovered in the software during the warranty period, the Government may upon reasonable notice require the Contractor to replace or correct at the Contractor's expense code work not meeting Task Order requirements. If the Contractor fails to perform the replacement or correction work within a reasonable time, the Government may: 1) Arrange for replacement or correction of the defective code by another source at the Contractor's expense; 2) Obtain an equitable adjustment from the Contractor; or 3) Terminate the Task Order for default. The Contractor's obligations under this warranty clause extend to all software defects discovered during the warranty period, but do not include damage caused by the Government. This warranty applies notwithstanding inspection and acceptance or other clauses or terms of the Task Order. All implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are excluded from this Task Order. Nothing in this clause shall limit the Government's rights under the Inspection clause in relation to latent defects, fraud, or gross mistakes that amount to fraud. SECTION I­ FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998). This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address http://www.arnet.gov/far. 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services. (Nov 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder must not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the end of the contract.

Page 25 of 31

52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) calendar days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least thirty (30) calendar days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract must be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, must not exceed 6 years and six months. FAR CLAUSE 52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-13 52.204-7 52.204-10 52.209-6 52.209-9 52.209-10 52.216-24 52.212-1 52.212-2 52.212-3 52.212-4 52.212-5 52.216-25 52.222-17 52.222-50 52.223-6 52.223-18 52.225-13 52.227-14 52.227-15 52.227-16 52.227-17 52.227-18 52.232-1 52.232-8 52.232-9 52.232-11 52.232-17 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33 52.323-39 52.233-1 52.233-3 TITLE Definitions Gratuities Covenant Against Contingent Fees Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government Anti-Kickback Procedures Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Central Contractor Registration Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontractor Awards Protecting The Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, Or Proposed For Debarment Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations Limitation of Government Liability Instructions to Offerors - Commercial Items Evaluation ­ Commercial Items Offer Representations and Certifications ­ Commercial Items Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders ­ Commercial Items Contract Definitization Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers Combating Trafficking in Persons Drug-Free Workplace Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving Restrictions On Certain Foreign Purchases Rights in Data ­ General Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software Additional Data Requirements Rights in Data ­ Special Works Rights in Data ­ Existing Works Payments Discounts For Prompt Payment Limitation On Withholding Of Payments Extras Interest Assignment Of Claims Prompt Payment Payment By Electronic Funds Transfer-Central Contractor Registration Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations Disputes Protest After Award
Page 26 of 31

DATE JAN 2012 APR 1984 APR 1984 SEPT 2006 OCT 2010 APR 2010 DEC 2012 JUN 2013 DEC 2010 FEB 2012 MAY 2012 APR 1984 FEB 2012 JAN 1999 DEC 2012 JUN 2013 JAN 2013 OCT 2010 JAN 2013 FEB 2009 MAY 2001 AUG 2011 JUN 2008 DEC 2007 DEC 2007 JUN 1987 DEC 2007 DEC 2007 APR 1984 FEB 2002 APR 1984 APR 1984 OCT 2010 JAN 1986 OCT 2008 OCT 2003 JUN 2013 JUL 2002 AUG 1996

FAR CLAUSE 52.233-4 52.239-1 52.242-13 52.243-1 52.243-3 52.243-7 52.244-2 52.244-6 52.246-6 52.246-25 52.249-2 52.249-8 52.249-14 52.253-1

TITLE Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim Privacy or Security Safeguards Bankruptcy Changes ­ Fixed Price (with Alternate I APR 1984) Changes--Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours Notification of Changes Subcontracts Subcontracts for Commercial Items Inspection--Time-and-Material and Labor-Hour Limitation Of Liability - Services Termination For Convenience Of The Government (Fixed Price) Default (Fixed Price Supply And Service) Excusable Delays Computer Generated Forms

DATE OCT 2004 AUG 1996 JUL 1995 AUG 1987 SEP 2000 APR 1984 OCT 2010 DEC 2010 MAY 2001 FEB 1997 APR 2012 APR 1984 APR 1984 JAN 1991

SECTION J ­ LIST OF ATTACHMENTS Attachment 1- Non-Disclosure Agreement (CONTRACTOR) Attachment 2- Non-Disclosure Agreement (CONTRACT PERSONNEL) Attachment 3- Conflicts of Interest Attachment 4 - Voluntary Product Accessibility TemplateŽ (VPAT) Attachment 5 - Certification by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under Federal Law (FEB 2012) SECTION K ­ REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF BIDDERS FAR Clause 52.212-3 "Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items (Dec 2012)" applies. The contractor shall have completed representations and certifications online in the System for Award Management (SAM) at www.sam.gov.

Page 27 of 31

SECTION L ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS L.1 Submission of Proposal. Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals so as to reach the Government office designated below by 12:00 pm EST, September 6, 2013. Proposals shall be submitted by e-mail. Proposals submitted by email shall be deemed received when they arrive at the e-mail address specified below: Securities and Exchange Commission Office of Acquisitions 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Attn: Joseph Han Email: hanso@sec.gov The Technical and Price Proposal shall be separate and complete so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the other. Technical and Price Proposals received after the deadline will be considered "late" and will not be accepted. L.2 Questions. All questions concerning this RFP shall be submitted in writing via e-mail to Joseph Han at the e-mail address listed in L.1, no later than 12:00 PM EST, August 16, 2013. L.3 Offer Preparation. The Offeror must email the Technical Proposal and Price Proposal containing the information set forth below via e-mail to Joseph Han at the email address listed in L.1. The Price Proposal containing pricing must be submitted in a separate volume from the Technical Proposal. The Technical and Price Proposal must be separate and complete so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the other. The Government anticipates awarding a contract to the Offeror whose response represents the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered. L.4 Exceptions, Deviations, Assumptions. In the first two pages of its Technical Proposal, the Offeror must identify and explain any exceptions, deviations taken or conditional assumptions made with respect to the proposal versus the requirements of the statement of work. Any exceptions, etc., taken must contain sufficient amplification and justification to permit evaluation. All benefits to the SEC must be explained for each exception, etc. taken. Offerors are cautioned that ANY exceptions, deviations taken, or conditional assumptions may render your proposal unacceptable and not considered for award. L.5 Price Proposal. a. Provide a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) proposal that includes a total price for CLINs 0001 (Phase 1) and 0002 (Phase 2), as well as, each of the four Option Periods (CLINs 0003 through 0006). b. The price proposal shall be complete and accurate in all respects and provide all pricing data to demonstrate Offeror's ability to satisfactorily perform the work called for by the solicitation. The price proposal must be aligned with the Offeror's technical proposal to permit the Government to perform a complete evaluation of the proposed prices. c. The Price Proposal shall include: i. A completed and signed Page 1 of the SF 18 with the Contractor's Tax Payer Identification number (TIN) and DUNS number typed. ii. Information regarding the financial ability of the Offeror and its subcontractor(s) to fulfill the requirements of the contract (such as a current financial statement or a D&B report, etc.) shall be submitted. This section shall not exceed 5 pages. A statement explaining how the price was derived. iii. The Offeror must meet all requirements as listed in Sections A-J and be registered in System for Award Management (SAM) www.sam.gov to be eligible for award. No proof is required other than a statement that the Offeror is registered in SAM. iv. The price proposal must include the Tax Identification Number (TIN) of the proposal. v. The Offeror's representation and certifications must be attached or a statement made that they are available

Page 28 of 31

from the System for Award Management (SAM) www.sam.gov. L.6 Technical Proposal. a. The Offeror must provide a Technical Proposal in response to this RFP. The Government anticipates awarding a contract on a "best value" basis to the Government, price and other factors considered. Technical Proposal must address the requirements of the contract and the evaluation factors in SECTION M of this solicitation in a straightforward, complete and concise manner. b. To verify compliance with Section 508, the Proposalr must submit a Voluntary Product Accessibility TemplateŽ (VPAT) filled in according to the product/service being proposed. The VPAT must be provided as part of the technical proposal. A blank copy of the VPAT (Attachment 4) is attached for your use. c. The Technical Proposal must not refer to price. However, resource information such as data concerning labor hours and category, materials, subcontracts, etc. must be included in the technical proposal, if applicable, so that the Government can evaluate the Offeror's understanding of the scope of the required work. d. Technical Proposal Requirements: 1. Page limit for Technical Proposal is twenty (20) pages total and at least a 12 point font. Resumes and VPAT documentation are excluded from the 20 page limit. 2. The Technical Proposal must be divided into the following sections: L.6.1 Technical Factor 1, Technical Capability. The Offeror must describe in detail its technical capabilities and how it will meet the criteria in the statement of work. The Offeror must describe in detail its technical and management approach. The Offeror's technical approach must clearly describe and address the Offeror's understanding of the desired outcomes contained in the Statement of Work (SOW). The Offeror's management approach should clearly cite discrete examples of successful performance and tangible results similar to the specific task categories contained in the SOW. Statements such as "the Offeror understands" or "the Offeror will comply" and statements that paraphrase the SOW or other contract requirements are inadequate. L.6.2 Technical Factor 2, Key Personnel. Propose labor categories and key personnel to complete the requirements of the SOW. Include descriptions of the responsibilities, skills, and qualifications for each proposed labor category. Identify key positions for performing the SOW and propose key personnel. Propose key personnel for the key positions and submit a description of the qualifications and work history for each key personnel proposed with your response. The description for each key personnel should include the following: 1. Name of individual and proposed labor category 2. Work History ˇ Name of the employing company or agency ˇ Month and year employment began and ended For each project performed with the employer, provide: ˇ Name of client ˇ Month and year project began and ended ˇ Description of project environment, including project size, nature of the application, software development methodology employed, and hardware/software utilized or supported ˇ Description of project responsibilities 3. Education at the post high school level, including school name, years attended, type and year of degree granted (if applicable), and major field of study. 4. Technical training and/or certifications relevant to the position for which the individual is proposed. Include only training and certifications completed in the last five years. For training classes, identify course title(s), type of training (computer-based or classroom), number of class hours, training vendor, and year completed. For certifications, provide the certification name, certifying company/organization, and year of certification. 5. If a proposed Key Personnel is not currently employed by the Offeror, the Offeror must submit signed contingent hire letter(s) for the proposed Key Personnel.

Page 29 of 31

L.6.3 Technical Factor 3, Past Performance. The Offeror must demonstrate its capacity to successfully perform the requirements contained in the SOW and must submit the following information for three (3) federal or commercial contracts performed within the past five years that are similar in scope to the requirements of this SOW: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Type of client (federal or commercial); Total contract dollar amount by year; A description of the contract work; Type of contract (for example, cost reimbursement, fixed price); Contract number and date of contract start and expiration; Name of contracting organization, telephone and fax numbers; Contracting Officer and telephone number; Contracting Officer's Technical Representative, program manager, or similar official and telephone number; A list of all disputes associated with the contract; and A list of the contract options that were not exercised and the reason(s) why they were not exercised.

In demonstrating past performance, the Offeror must describe the relevance of the work experience listed above to the requirements contained in the SOW, and should provide any other information that would serve to establish the Offeror's proven corporate technical and managerial experience in fulfilling the requirements contained in the scope of this SOW. NOTE: In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available; the Offeror will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance. While the Government may elect to consider data from other sources, the burden of providing thorough and complete past performance information rests with the Offeror. SECTION M ­ EVALUATION OF PROPOSAL FOR AWARD M.1 Evaluation of Proposals. M.1.1 The SEC reserves the right to award the contract based on the initial Proposal received, without discussions or negotiations of such Proposal. Therefore, it is critically important that the Proposal be fully responsive to the RFP, without exception to any provision. The SEC also reserves the right to conduct discussions, if later determined to be necessary. M.1.2 The SEC anticipates awarding a contract to an Offeror whose offer is determined to provide the best value to the SEC, proposed price and other factors considered. The SEC reserves the right to make no award pursuant to this solicitation. M.1.3 Technical Factors are listed in the order of importance. Technical Capability is more important than Key Personnel which is more important than Past Performance. M.2 Evaluation Criteria. The Government will evaluate the degree to which the Offeror's proposed technical approach demonstrates an understanding of the objectives/principles and functional and technical requirements of this solicitation and is likely to result in successful completion of the SOW and other requirements. Proposed solutions that decrease risk or exceed stated requirements may be viewed as strengths or advantages that result in higher evaluation. M.3 Technical Evaluation Factors for Award. The SEC will evaluate the Offeror's proposed solution for the following factors: M.3.1 Technical Factor 1, Technical Capability. The degree to which the Offeror's capabilities demonstrate an understanding of and meet the technical requirements of, this solicitation (e.g., XBRL, XBRL Dimensions, Inline XBRL, Chapter 6 of the EFM, DTDs and Schemas, parsing, validation, Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), style sheets, automated testing, cross-platform browser and API issues).

Page 30 of 31

Preference will be given to bidders demonstrating experience with installation of systems in secure environments such as the SEC. M.3.2 Technical Factor 2, Key Personnel. SEC will evaluate: a) The qualifications and skill sets of the Key Personnel including education, work experience, technical trainings and certifications relevant to the position for which the individual is being proposed. b) The Offeror's capability to provide continuity and maintain the necessary staff resources/labor categories to perform the work on this requirement. c) The Offeror's ability to successfully staff and recruit personnel to perform the requirements of the solicitation and the Offeror's staff retention practices. d) Any proposed subcontractors and teaming arrangements. M.3.3 Technical Factor 3, Past Performance. The SEC will evaluate the Offeror's past performance experience based on how well it is directly related to the requirements of this project. Past performance information will be evaluated to assess any risks to the Offeror's ability to successfully perform the requirements of this solicitation. If no direct or similar experience is provide, this factor will receive a neutral rating. Evaluation will assess the Offeror's ability to conform to contract requirements and adhere to contract schedules, and its commitment to customer satisfaction based upon its record of past performance for contracts that are similar in scope to this RFP. M.3.4 Price Evaluation Factors for Award. The SEC will evaluate Price Proposals based on the following considerations: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Price Comparison/analysis between the Proposals; Market prices; Government cost estimates; Other government and publicly available contracts; The Proposal's financial ability to fulfill the requirements of the contract; and The reasonableness and fairness of the Proposal's proposed pricing.

Page 31 of 31

