<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTIRNO14R00016.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTIRNO14R00016.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>OMB Control No. 1505-0081

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION								STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE									Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

							STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005)  BACK 

  

Section C – PWS

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)

FOR

ALC TO JAVA REENGINEERING 





BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE



	The IRS is a bureau of the Department of the Treasury and one of the world’s most efficient tax administrators. In fiscal year 2012, the IRS collected more than $2.5 trillion in revenue and processed more than 237 million tax returns. 



IRS maintains a large inventory of IBM Assembler Language Code (ALC) applications, in aggregate more than 10 million source lines of code (SLOC).  The IRS ranks the Assembler Language Code as second, after COBOL, among the programming languages used in the number of systems/programs in the IRS. 



The IRS Information Technology (IT) Applications Development organization has been exploring the marketplace for tools and services to assist the IRS in modernizing its ALC inventory.  During the fall of 2012, the IRS conducted Vendor reference interviews, issued and completed a Request for Information (RFI).



Based on the response to this RFI, IRS seeks to gain additional understanding of the potential tools, technologies and methods addressing reengineering and/or code conversion capability.  The purpose of this RFP is to select multiple Contractors to perform a paid demonstration of the processes and methodologies they employ.



IRS has selected a discrete, non-sensitive function from its production ALC code base for use in this demonstration. During the Reverse-Engineering phase (Section 3.2 – Task 2), IRS will provide the source code (SLOC 3,943 including comments) as well as the fully expanded assembly listing, and hold a question and answer session to answer Contractors’ questions regarding IRS coding practices used in the demonstration ALC code. It should be noted that the demonstration ALC code does not comprise a complete, runnable ALC program, but rather contains a number of routines that can be invoked in the context of a larger ALC program. 



The IRS CTO has identified that Java is the preferred target environment. During the Forward Engineering phase of this demonstration (Section 3.3 – Task 3), IRS will provide the requirements/specification document for the subject code. The Contractors will demonstrate development of the high-level design, detailed design, source code, and test artifacts. The Contractors will provide a strategy for moving a large code base from ALC towards Java, considering risk, cost, maintainability, performance impacts and scheduling.   Contractors who perform reverse engineering of ALC to an intermediate language or representation, but do not forward engineer to Java, have the option to demonstrate forward engineering to a different high-level application language. 



Contractors will include in their proposal a schedule to accomplish the demonstration of their methodology within the constraints of the six week period of performance. Deliverables and the desired or expected due dates for each are shown in the Deliverable Schedule (Section 4.0 Deliverables).  During the third and sixth weeks, the IRS will schedule individual meeting times for each Contractor to hold a virtual web meeting to explain the process/ methodology used, level of effort, and scheduling considerations for planning a reengineering engagement with this methodology. 

   



2.0 	SCOPE OF WORK



The purpose of this procurement is to award Firm Fixed Price contract(s) to the Contractor(s) who demonstrate the ability to meet the requirements as defined in this Performance Work Statement (PWS) to migrate ALC to Java using automated tools and reengineering methodologies. 



Under this effort, the IRS hopes to determine if the Contractor services and tools can assist IT in multiple activities:



Analyze the ALC code to show structures, relationships, and logic flow. The IRS wishes to ascertain how well the Contractors can deal with the complexities of reverse-engineering ALC, including but not limited to:

Self-modifying code

Complex logic flow, including non-standard subroutine linkage and return

Extensive use of pointer-based data structures

Decimal arithmetic

Extracting information from comments



Capture and organize information that assists in understanding the meaning of the ALC code and supporting subsequent forward engineering, such as variable names, comments, setup functions, dependencies, and shared subroutines



Enhance and extend information extracted from ALC code in order to support subsequent forward engineering, e.g. map 8-character ALC names to longer, more meaningful mnemonics



Establish traceability of the ALC functionality through reverse engineering and forward engineering to the target code.



Perform validation that the target code accomplishes the correct business functionality



Generate intermediary representation of the ALC code that can support modernization to an Object-Oriented Java application that conforms to object-oriented standards and architecture. 



Support application life cycle processes to manage the transformation process from start to finish.

	

The IRS will not request the Contractor(s) to conform to the IRS Enterprise Architecture or IRS Java conventions and standards for this demonstration.  If Contractor(s) propose to produce Java code in the Forward Engineering phase (Task 3), IRS expects Contractor(s) to migrate one specific ALC module to Java using whatever tool(s) and framework components the Contractor identify/need. The Contractor shall provide the methodology and processes followed to produce the results.



Contractor(s) should be aware that the demonstration ALC code will comprise a module that contains one or more routines designed to be invoked in the context of a larger program. The demonstration code is not a complete, executable ALC program. Contractor(s) will be expected to develop driver code or utilize a test environment to allow the forward-engineered module to be executed and tested. 



This is a Demonstration only; the IRS is not procuring Contractor output to be incorporated into production.



3.0 	Tasks

	3.1	Task 1- Kick-Off Meeting

The IRS will conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone conference.  The conference call number will be provided in the award email, along with an encrypted file containing the ALC code.  



The intent of the meeting is to initiate the communication process between the IRS and Contractors by introducing key contract participants, explaining their roles, reviewing communication ground rules, and assuring a common understanding of contract requirements and objectives.



The completion of this meeting will result in the following:



 Introduce the IRS personnel who will support the contract.  

The IRS will provide the password for the encrypted file containing the ALC code.  

The Contractors shall complete, and return signed Non-Disclosure and Conflict of Interest Agreements no later than one hour before the kick-off meeting.  

The Contractors shall complete and return the Deliverables Form one hour before the kick-off meeting.  

Discuss any issues concerning Non-disclosure and Conflict of Interest Agreements.

The Contractors shall demonstrate confirmation of their understanding of the work to be accomplished under this PWS.

The Contractors shall provide the name of and the access method for their chosen conference or meeting service via email before close of business on the day of the kick-off meeting.

The Contractors shall provide the accounting period end dates to be used for the term of this contract.



DESIRED OUTCOME – The completion of this meeting shall result in the following:



The Contractors shall confirm via email of their understanding on the Deliverables, and the Performance Requirements, Quality, and Expectations of section 12.0.  

The Contractor shall demonstrate an understanding of contract requirements and objectives.

The IRS will have the name and link for the Contractor’s selected method for delivering Reverse Engineering presentation.

	3.2	Task 2 – Reverse Engineering

The ALC code, which will have been be sent via email to the Contractors in an encrypted file with the award, and decrypted with the password provided in the Kick-off Meeting, will be in American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII). The fully expanded assembler listing in ASCII will be included.



The following day, the IRS will hold a Question and Answer session, where IRS Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) will provide IRS ALC coding practices and answer technical questions regarding the structure of the code, IRS ALC coding conventions used in the code, etc., but will not address its functionality.



The Contractors shall provide a preliminary reverse engineering analysis for the subject ALC code including any intermediary representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow diagrams, state transition tables, state machines, data structures and class diagrams). This analysis shall be in the Contractors’ recommended format that can demonstrate identification and understanding of the functionality. 



The Contractors shall provide a final analysis of the subject ALC code in the Contractor‘s recommended format, and demonstrate how their process/methodology validates and verifies the completeness of this analysis.. 



The Contractor shall provide a presentation that describes and explains the reverse engineering processes that they followed. The IRS will provide each Contractor with a 2 hour time slot. Contractors shall schedule a virtual meeting with the IRS. Presentations should be no longer than 90 minutes, allowing the remaining 30 minutes for question and answer discussion with the IRS. Materials and information delivered for these presentations may be used to brief IRS executives on the Reverse Engineering results.  



Based on the results of the RFI, the IRS understands that potential Contractors may utilize a variety of mechanisms for capturing, manipulating, and presenting the results of their reverse-engineering process. Results shall be presented in Contractor-specified format. Any tools required to access the results of the reverse-engineering analysis (e.g. an application that accesses a database of reverse-engineering information) shall be included in the Deliverables.



DESIRED OUTCOME – The IRS has representation capturing the functionality for the subject ALC code in the Contractor’s recommended format. The IRS has an understanding of the Contractor’s reverse engineering methodology and representation.

	3.3	Task 3 – Forward Engineering

The Contractor shall deliver a high-level design for software that replicates the business functionality of the demonstration ALC code. The high-level design shall target the Java programming language, or at the Contractor’s option, another high-level application programming language, but not a system programming language. The high-level design shall be based on and derived from the analysis of the demonstration ALC code performed in the Reverse Engineering task. The Contractor shall demonstrate to the IRS how their tools and methodologies are used to produce the high-level design from the reverse-engineering analysis. The Contractor shall demonstrate traceability from the ALC code, through the reverse-engineering representation, to the high-level design.  

 The Contractor shall deliver a detailed design for software that replicates the business functionality of the demonstration ALC code. The detailed design shall target the same programming language as was targeted in the high-level design. The detailed design shall be based on and derived from the high-level design and the analysis of the demonstration ALC code performed in the Reverse Engineering task. The Contractor shall demonstrate to the IRS how their tools and methodologies are used to produce the detailed design from high-level design and the reverse-engineering analysis. The Contractor shall demonstrate traceability from the ALC code, through the reverse-engineering representation, and the high-level design, to the detailed design.  

The Contractor shall deliver software in source-code form that replicates the business functionality of the demonstration ALC code. Since the demonstration ALC code is not itself an executable program, the Contractor shall deliver driver code or a suitable test environment that allows the converted ALC functionality to be invoked and tested. The Contractor shall prepare and deliver test inputs that will demonstrate the complete functionality of the executable code. The Contractor shall use the test inputs to demonstrate that the converted code produces the same results as the original ALC code. The source code shall be in the same programming language as was targeted in the high-level and detailed designs. The Contractor shall provide the level of documentation that is consistent with their methodology. The Contractor shall demonstrate to the IRS how their tools and methodologies are used to produce the program code from high-level design, detailed design, and the reverse-engineering analysis. The Contractor shall demonstrate traceability from the ALC code, through the reverse-engineering representation, the high-level design, and the detailed design to the program source code.  

The Contractor will not be asked to incorporate new requirements into their deliverables under this task. However, the Contractor shall, in their presentations accompanying each of the deliverables in the Forward Engineering phase, address how their tools and methodology can support the addition of new requirements to the functionality identified during the Reverse-Engineering phase. 

The Contractors demonstrating forward engineering to Java shall deliver a paper and accompanying presentation describing how their methodology addressed:

Synthesis of Java classes, including trade-offs and their resolution

Packed decimal arithmetic

Pointer-based data

Bit manipulation

Expansion of 8-character labels into meaningful mnemonic variable names and labels

Carryover of comments into the modernized code

Self-modifying code

Irregular subroutine structure

If the Contractor opts to provide deliverables targeting a language other than Java, they shall also deliver a paper and accompanying presentation outlining a recommended strategy that the IRS could use to eventually migrate its ALC functionality to high-quality Java, considering risk, cost, maintainability, performance impacts and scheduling. This strategy or recommendation shall: 

Address technical considerations in migrating from ALC or a non-object-oriented high-level programming language to Java, including but not limited to:

Definition of Java classes

Data access that does not rely on pointer-based data structures

Handling of data types and structures that are not directly supported in Java, e.g. packed decimal arithmetic

Program performance

All forward engineering paper and presentations, regardless of target language demonstrated, should also address how, in Modernizing and re-architecting an entire application of approximately 500,000 SLOC, made up of approximately 100 runs, their methodology would address:

Analysis of JCL or other artifacts necessary to a comprehensive understanding of legacy code functionality.

Derivation of database schemas from sequential file data structures (Dsect).

Separation of business logic from technical implementation logic.

Incorporating externally imposed standards and conventions, including, but not limited to, component frameworks for batch processing and data access.

Incorporation of new business requirements.

Consideration of the steps or phases of the migration methodology, and how iterations of migration would move through these phases. 

The process for documenting the functionality in the resulting production code; how traceability would be established; and how documentation and traceability would be updated and maintained for annual legislative changes.

The approach to data migration; restructuring (architecting) the code (flow of processing); and elimination of limitations posed by current ALC architecture.

Comparison of vendor level of effort, supporting IRS SME level of effort and overall duration. 

The use of supporting tools for any of these activities. 

The Contractor shall provide a presentation that describes and explains the forward engineering processes that they followed. The IRS will provide each Contractor with a 2 hour time slot. Contractors shall schedule a virtual meeting with the IRS. Presentations should be no longer than 90 minutes, allowing the remaining 30 minutes for question and answer discussion with the IRS. Materials and information delivered for these presentations may be used to brief IRS executives on the Forward Engineering results.  



DESIRED OUTCOME – The IRS will have a detailed understanding of how the Contractor can produce executable code in Java or another high-level programming language from the ALC and the results of the Reverse Engineering phase. The IRS will be able to validate actual test results to expected values. If the Contractor does not provide an executable Java deliverable, the IRS will have a well-defined strategy for migrating applications, converted from ALC to another high-level language, from that language to Java. 





4.0	Deliverables



The deliverables include:



The Contractor shall deliver all deliverables in accordance with the deliverable schedule as defined in the Contractor’s Proposal. Deliverables are due by 1:00pm, Eastern Time Zone on the dates specified in the deliverable schedule.  If the Contractor requires information from external sources in order to meet a deadline, the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) shall be informed of the situation.  



All Contractor deliverables or work products shall remain categorized as “Official Use Only.”  The Government must authorize in writing release of any deliverable work portion. 

Marking and Submission of Deliverables 

All deliverables identified in this Section that are required to be submitted to the Government shall include the following markings:



Email subject line to include:

IRS Contract number 

Deliverable number and name



Email body content to include:

Description of Deliverable

File name using Contractor recommended naming standard 

Instructions for displaying deliverable

Additional information about the deliverable as appropriate

Contractor Point of Contact (deliverable specific); telephone and email



Letter of Transmittal (Deliverables) – Deliverables identified in this Section of the Contract shall be accompanied by a Letter of Transmittal addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer with a copy to the Contracting Officer’s Representative.  



The Letter of Transmittal shall include the following:

Date of submission of the deliverable.

Title of Document, and Section PWS reference. 

 Method of Delivery

To support the objective of the demonstration, deliverables should be submitted in their native format with a reader and a PDF of Outputs.   Electronic submission shall be made via e-mail to the COR, team leader, designated alternate COR, and Government Task Manager.  Compression and encryption shall be via SecureZIP ® by PKWARE.

Government Acceptance, Rejection and Acknowledgement 

The government will have (3) hours to validate readability of deliverable and its files.  The COR will accept or reject deliverable by 4:00pm Eastern Time Zone. The Contractor shall have (1) hour to make corrections.  Resubmitted deliverables must be received by 5pm Eastern Time Zone.   Upon receipt of the corrected deliverables, the COR will have two (2) workdays for final review prior to acceptance or providing documented reason for non-acceptance.  Should the Government fail to complete the review within the review period the deliverable will become acceptable by default.



The COR has the right to reject the deliverable if the Government is unable to read or open the file.   



In the event of a rejected deliverable, the Contractor will be notified in writing by the COR of the specific reasons for rejections.  



Table 1 – Deliverables Schedule**



*Contractor web presentation may use commercial Web Meeting products that do not require the government to install any components, and do not use streaming video.



** Days indicated are Business Days



*** If your methodology does not differentiate between items #7 and #9, indicate in your proposal that these will be a combined deliverable.



5.0	EXPERIENCE AND CAPABILITIES OF KEY PERSONNEL



The Contractor must identify the employee(s) who will be designated as Key Personnel under this contract.  Occupational resumes of all personnel to be associated with this project shall include employment history, technical ability, and training and specific subject matter/system knowledge.  Each individual must demonstrate experience with services of similar scope, size and complexity as the services defined in this PWS.



The Contractor shall identify in the chart below positions designated as key personnel for this contract. 



6.0	PERSONNEL SECURITY



All Contractor employees affected by this PWS shall comply by signing Non-Disclosure Agreement and Conflict of Interest forms.   

	6.1	Disclosure Awareness Training

Not Applicable

	6.2	Non-Disclosure Agreement

The Contractor shall comply with Department of Treasury Directive TDP 85-01, Treasury Security Manual TDP 71-10, and Internal Revenue Manual 10.8.1 Information Technology Security Policy and Guidance.  The Contractor shall comply with IRS Internal Revenue Manuals (IRM) and Law Enforcement Manuals (LEM) when developing or administering IRS information and information systems. 



The Contractor shall ensure Non-Disclosure Agreement forms are signed by all employees staff assigned to or performing work on this contract before any work is performed, this includes all sub-contractors. The Non-Disclosure Agreement forms shall be cosigned by a company official.  The Contractor shall also ensure that all employees understand and adhere to the terms of the Non-Disclosure agreement. Contractor personnel who have not executed this agreement or failure to adhere to this agreement shall constitute default on the part of the Contractor. The contractor shall submit the signed forms to the COR.



7.0	Government Furnished Information, Property, and Equipment

	7.1	Government Furnished Property (GFP)

Not Applicable



	7.2	Government Furnished Information (GFI)

The IRS will provide the Contractor with information identified in this PWS. At the end of this contract, disposition of GFI shall be in accordance with FAR 52.245.5.



8.0	INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

	8.1	Inspection

Inspection will be performed at the IRS’s locations stated herein in accordance with FAR 52.246-4, “Inspection of Services – Fixed-Price (Aug. 1996).

	8.2	General Acceptance Criteria

The general quality measures as set forth below will be applied to each deliverable received from the Contractor under this contract.  Any perceived conflict with the quality measures listed below should be immediately reported to the Contracting Officer. 



Accuracy – Deliverables shall be accurate in presentation, technical content and specifications and adherence to accepted elements of style. 

Clarity – Deliverables shall be clear and concise; engineering terms shall be used as appropriate. All diagrams shall be easy to understand and relevant to the supporting narrative. 

Format – Work Products shall be submitted in hard copy (where applicable) and in media format as defined in the PWS.  The format may change from Task to Task. 

Timeliness – Deliverables shall be submitted on or before the due date specified in the Project Schedule, or submitted in accordance with a later scheduled date determined by the COR.



9.0	ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS (Section 508)



The following DTAR Clauses cover Section 508:



1052.239-9008 – Section 508 Information, Documentation, and Support (SEP 2006) ;



1052.239-9009 – Section 508 Conformance (SEP 2006) ;



1052.239-9010 – Section 508 Services (SEP 2006); and



1052.239-9011 – Section 508 Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology (100% Compliance) (SEP 2006).





10.0  Project Plan



The Contractor shall prepare a Project Plan, Project Schedule and Deliverable Schedule outlining a strategy for completing work identified in the contract and identifying the recommended timing for deliverables.  

Project plan shall contain a reasonable, well thought out strategy for managing the contract requirements and detailing a backup plan in the event something does not occur timely. 

Project Schedule shall contain the Contractor’s schedule to perform the Tasks defined in this PWS, further delineated by the subtask’s required to follow the Contractor’s methodology and process.

Deliverable Schedule shall describe the artifacts to be delivered to demonstrate the Contractor’s reverse engineering and forward engineering methodology and process, and will detail delivery dates using the IRS’s Delivery Schedule in the PWS as a guideline.



11.0	Quality Control Plan



The Contractor shall provide their standard Quality Control or Quality Management Plan used for re-engineering or code conversion engagements similar to the requirements of this PWS.



12.0	Performance Requirements, Standards, and Surveillance



The Contract requirements listed in this Performance Requirements Summary (PRS) summarize specific firm fixed price tasks that are to be performed under this contract.



The Government intends to utilize a PRS to monitor the quality of the Contractor’s performance.  The PRS will assist to ensure the service levels are achieved and maintain throughout the contract term.  The Government reserves the right to modify the PRS at any time during this contract.

	12.1	Performance Requirements

Performance requirements include the Desired Outcomes and are defined by the Government.  PRS define the desired outcomes as successfully completing specified tasks including all deliverables, work products, and support as indicated in the PR Summary.  This aligns the Contractor’s objectives with the Government objectives, which are to successfully complete the tasks and deliver value-added products and services.



	12.2	Performance Standards

Performance standards include two pre-defined standards (i.e., Schedule, and Quality) for each desired outcome.  The performance standards for this PWS will not include an Acceptable Quality Level (AQL), but will have an Expectation metric which has been determined and defined by the IRS.



	12.3	Surveillance

This firm fixed price demonstration does not have incentives or disincentives. Therefore, this section will list the activities in each task, the performance standard and IRS’s expectation.





Task 3.1 Kick-off Meeting



DESIRED OUTCOME – The IRS shall have Contractors confirmation of their understanding on the Deliverables, and the Performance Requirements, Quality, and Expectations of section 12.0.  The IRS shall have the name and link for the Contractor’s selected method for delivering Reverse Engineering presentation.















Task 3.2 Reverse Engineering



DESIRED OUTCOME – The IRS has representation capturing the functionality for the subject ALC code in the Contractor’s recommended format. The IRS has an understanding of the Contractor’s reverse engineering methodology and representation.  







Task 3.3 Forward Engineering



Desired Outcome: The IRS will have a detailed understanding of how the Contractor can produce executable code in Java or another high-level programming language from the ALC and the results of the Reverse Engineering phase. The IRS will be able to validate actual test results to expected values. If the Contractor does not provide an executable Java deliverable, the IRS will have a well-defined strategy for migrating applications, converted from ALC to another high-level language, from that language to Java.





13.0	TRAVEL



Not applicable, there will be no travel.



14.0	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance of this contract shall be a base period of 6 weeks from date of the kick-off meeting. 



15.0	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The work shall be performed at Contractor site.























SECTION I – CLAUSE/PROVISIONS





FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) AND INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE ACQUISITION PROCEDURES (IRSAP) PROVISIONS



1052.204-9003 IRS Security Awareness Training Requirements (AUG 2010)  



 IR1052.204.9005 – SUBMISSION OF SECURITY FORMS AND RELATED MATERIALS (AUG 2010)



 (a)		Contractor personnel hired for work within the United States or its territories and possessions and who require access, wherever the location, to IRS owned or controlled facilities or work on contracts that involve the design, operation, repair, or maintenance of information systems, and/or require access to sensitive but unclassified information, security items or products, must meet the following three eligibility criteria before a full background investigation will be initiated:  



(1) 	Must be Federal tax compliant, both timely filed and timely payment of any taxes due;



(2) 	Shall either be at a minimum a U.S. citizen for high risk access, or have lawful permanent resident status for low and moderate risk (3 years of US residency required for moderate risk); and



(3) 	For all males born after 1959, must be registered with Selective Service.



(b)	All contractor personnel performing under the contract that require either escorted or unescorted access to IRS facilities, SBU information or information systems are subject to (and must receive a favorable adjudication or affirmative results with respect to) the following suitability pre-screening criteria, as applicable:



(1)	Credit report results (moderate and high risk investigations only); and/or 



(2)	Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint results.



(c)	Each contract employee assigned to work under this contract/order shall undergo investigative processing appropriate to the position sensitivity and risk level designation associated with the work to be performed, as described in TD P 15-71, Chapter I, Section 1.  In support of this undertaking, the contractor shall furnish the following electronic documents to the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP), per the instructions available on the publicly accessible website for IRS , within 10 business days of assigning (or reassigning) a contractor employee to this contract/order and prior to the contract employee performing any work there under:  



The IRS provided Risk Assessment Checklist (RAC), and 

All required security forms (for new contractor employees), are available through the publicly accessible website for IRS .   



(Note:  These documents (the RAC and security forms) are also available upon request from CSLP via email at )



(d)	Concurrent with submission of the above-referenced materials to CSLP, the contractor shall email the Contracting Officer (CO), and the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to confirm this requirement has been completed.  The notice shall identify the subject contractor employee by name and relevant contract/task order number(s), and list the materials submitted.

 

(e)	Contractor personnel whose duration of employment exceeds 180 days must be eligible for access, per certification of tax compliance, and shall undergo, at a minimum a National Agency Check and Inquiries as a condition of work under the government contract. If the duration of employment is less than 180 days or access is infrequent (e.g., 2-3 days per month) and the contractor requires unescorted access, the contractor employee must be eligible for access, per certification of tax compliance, and require at a minimum a fingerprint check (Special Agreement Check).  No background investigation or tax check is completed if the duration of employment is less than 180 days or access is infrequent when there is escort provided by an IRS employee or an approved contractor employee at the same or higher position risk level.



(f)	The contractor employee may commence work only upon notice of an interim or final approval for staff-like access, revalidation of access for contractor employee transfers from one IRS contract/order to another, or approved escorted access.   



[End of clause]









IR1052.204.9006 – NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT STATUS, ASSIGNMENT, OR STANDING (AUG 2010)

 	

(a)  	The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP), via email, within one (1) business day of the contractor becoming aware of any change in the employment status, assignment, or standing of a contractor employee to this contract/order –to include, but not limited to, the following conditions:



Receipt of the employee’s notice of intent to separate from employment or discontinue work under this IRS contract/task order;

Knowledge of the employee’s voluntary separation from employment or performance on this contract/task order (if no prior notice was given);

Transfer or reassignment of the employee and performance of duties under this contract/task order, in whole or in part, to another IRS contract/task order (and identify the gaining contract and representative duties/responsibilities to allow for an assessment of suitability based on position sensitivity/risk level designation);

Separation, furlough or release from employment;

Anticipated extended absence of more than 45 days;

Change of legal name;

Change to citizenship or lawful permanent resident status, or employment eligibility;

Change in gender or other distinction when physical attributes figure prominently in the biography of an individual;

Actual or perceived conflict of interest in continued performance under this contract/task order (provide explanation);

Death.  



(b)	The notice shall include the following minimum information:



Name of contractor employee

Nature of the change in status, assignment or standing (i.e.,  provide a brief non-personal, broad-based explanation) 

Affected contract/task order number(s)

Actual or anticipated date of departure or separation

When applicable, the name of the IRS facility(s) this individual routinely works from or has access to when performing work under this contract/order

Identification of any Government Furnished Property (GFP), Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), or Government Furnished Information (GFI) (to include Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials or badges) provided to the contractor employee and its whereabouts or status. 



(c)	In the event the subject contractor employee is working on multiple contracts/orders, notification shall be combined, and the cognizant COTR for each affected contract/order shall be included in the joint notification along with the CSLP.  



(d)	As a general rule, the change in the employment status, assignment, or standing of a contractor employee to this contract/order would not form the basis for an excusable delay for failure to perform this contract under its terms.  



[End of clause]



1052.224-9000(b) Disclosure of Information--Safeguards (January 1998)  



 1052.224-9000(c) Disclosure of Information--Safeguards (Nov 2005)  



 1052.224-9000(d) Disclosure of "Sensitive but Unclassified" Information Safeguards (March 2008)  



 1052.224-9001(a) Disclosure of Information--Criminal/Civil Sanctions (January 1998)  

The U.S. Department of the Treasury, Financial Managements Internet Payment Platform (IPP) is a government-wide electronic payment information service that replaces the Payment Advice Internet Delivery (PAID) system. IPP allows vendors to receive their remittance information from their financial institution. Effective October 31, 2008, IPP replaced the PAID system. Former PAID users have been automatically migrated to IPP and need to complete the initial provisioning process from the new user ID, temporary password, and web address sent by Treasury. This is necessary in order to log in to the IPP and view or download payment information. New vendors may register on-line at https://ipp.gov. For additional information, refer to the IPP Customer Support at (866) 973-3131. The IPP will continue to support the following notification services previously offered by PAID: Web access only to remittance data, no payment notification emails sent, payment notification without remittance detail, and payment notification with remittance detail. Users may select event-driven notifications and schedule the frequency. Vendors can only access their own payment data. IPP remittance information includes the following data: ACH trace number, supplier name, agency name, payment status, issue date, invoice number, PO number, invoice amount, discount amount, payment amount, bank name, and bank address. The IPP will collect payment data for 18 months, which will be available for search, display and download. Payment information will be uploaded to the IPP daily from Treasury systems on the date of payment. 

(End of Clause)  



1052.239-9007 Access, Use or Operation of IRS Information Technology (IT) Systems by Contractors  



In performance of this contract, the contractor agrees to comply with the following requirements and assumes responsibility for compliance by his/her employees:



1.	IRS Information Technology Security Policy and Guidance.



All current and new IRS contractor employees authorized staff-like (unescorted) access to Treasury/IRS owned or controlled facilities and information systems, or work, wherever located, on those contracts which involve the design, operation, repair or maintenance of information systems and access to sensitive but unclassified information shall comply with the .  A copy of IRM 10.8.1 may be requested from the Contracting Officer or Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) or obtained from the publicly available portions of the IRM at .  



2.	Access Request and Authorization. 



Within (10) business days after contract award, issuance of a task order or other award notice, or acceptance of new or substitute contractor employees by the COTR, the contractor shall provide the COTR and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program, (CSLP) a list of names of all applicable contractor employees and the IRS location(s) identified in the contract for which access is requested.  A security screening, if determined appropriate by the IRS and in accordance with , and , will be conducted by the IRS for each contractor employee requiring access to IRS’ IT systems, or as otherwise deemed appropriate by the COTR.  The Government reserves the right to determine the fitness or suitability of a contractor employee to receive or be assigned staff-like access under a contract, and whether the employee shall be permitted to perform or continue performance under the contract.  Security screenings of contractor employees which reveal the following may be grounds for declining staff-like access under a contract: conviction of a felony, a crime of violence or a serious misdemeanor, a record of arrests for continuing offenses, or failure to file or pay Federal income tax.  (Note:  This is not an inclusive list.)  Upon notification from Personnel Security of an acceptable (favorably adjudicated) contractor employee security screening, the COTR will complete an Online 5081 (OL5081), Automated Information System (AIS) User Registration/Change Request, for each prime or subcontractor employee and require an electronic signature from each employee indicating the contractor employee has read and fully understands the security requirements governing access to the Service’s IT systems.  IRS approval of the OL5081 is required before a contractor employee is granted access to, use or operation of IRS IT systems.  IRM 10.8.1 includes more detailed information on the OL 5081.  



3.	Contractor Acknowledgement. 



The contractor also acknowledges and agrees that he or she understands that all contract employees must comply with all laws, IRS system security rules, IRS security policies, standards, and procedures. The contractor also acknowledges that a contract employee’s unsanctioned, negligent, or willful violation of the laws, IRS system security rules, IRS security policies, standards, and procedures may result in the revocation of access to IRS information technology systems, immediate removal from IRS premises and the contract, and for violations of Federal statute or state laws, the contract employee may be subject to arrest by Federal law enforcement agents.



4.	Limited Personal Use of Government IT Resources.



Contractors, like employees, have no inherent right to use Government IT resources, and this policy does not create the right to use Government IT resources for nongovernmental purposes.  However, as a courtesy, the privileges (and restrictions) established by  for employees, are extended to contractors.  



Contractors, like employees, have the privilege to use Government IT resources for nongovernmental purposes when such use:



involves minimal additional expense to the Government;

occurs during non-work hours for reasonable duration and frequency;

does not violate the Codes of Ethical Conduct;

does not overburden any of the IRS’ IT resources;

does not adversely affect the performance of official duties; 

does not interfere with the mission or operations of the IRS; and 

complies with existing Federal Government, Department of the Treasury, and IRS policies for, but not limited to— ethics, security, disclosure, and privacy.



Contractors, like employees, are specifically prohibited from inappropriate Internet usage such as participation in: gambling, pornography, personal communication on social networking sites, peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing, downloading unauthorized programs or software, and other activities that open IRS information or information systems to security risks. Specific examples are referenced in . 



Contractors, like employees, are specifically prohibited from the pursuit of private commercial business activities or profit-making ventures using the Government’s IT resources. The ban also includes the use of the Government’s IT resources to assist relatives, friends, or other persons in such activities.



Contractors, like employees, are specifically prohibited from engaging in any political fundraising activity, endorsing any product or service, participating in any lobbying activity, or engaging in any prohibited partisan political activity, in accordance with, Title 5 - Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) - Part 735, Office of Personnel Management, Employee Responsibilities and Conduct.



Contractors, like employees, should have no expectation of privacy, while using any Government IT resources at any time, including (but not limited to) accessing the Internet or using e-mail.



Any unauthorized use may be reported to the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), the Contracting Officer, and the Computer Security Incident Response Center (CSIRC) (for subsequent referral to the Department of Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) and/or the Personnel Security, Centralized Adjudication Group (CAG), as appropriate).



5.	Replacement Personnel.



The contractor acknowledges that in the event of an alleged violation of the policies and rules on access, use or operation of IRS’ IT resources, the IRS, at its discretion, may immediately withdraw access privileges of the contractor employee alleged to have violated said policies and rules, and request suspension of that employee from performance under this or any IRS contract pending the conclusion of its investigation of the matter.  At the conclusion of the its investigation, if the IRS determines that extended or permanent revocation of access to IRS’ IT resources computer systems and/or facilities, or other disciplinary action is warranted or in its best interest, the contractor agrees to remove the contractor employee that was the subject of the investigation within one day of official notification by the IRS of its access eligibility determination, and provide a replacement within five days.  Replacement personnel must be acceptable to the IRS.  The proposed replacement personnel must have a substantive amount of experience in the job position in which they will be performing; including equal or greater qualifications as the individual being replaced.  In evaluating proposed replacement personnel, the IRS reserves the right to make an assessment on the technical and/or professional qualifications of the proposed substituting individual(s).  The Contracting Officer (on the advice and recommendation of the COTR) has the right to disallow the proposed substituting individual(s) from performing under the subject contract, when the technical and/or professional qualifications of the proposed replacement personnel are determined (1) not to be substantially equivalent to the technical and/or professional qualifications of the personnel they are to replace, or (2) not sufficient to reasonably insure successful performance, or (3) otherwise endanger contract performance, progression, or completion.  New hires or replacement personnel are subject to and must receive an acceptable (favorably adjudicated) contractor employee security screening conducted by Personnel Security.   



6.	Monitoring Notification.



IRS management retains the right to monitor both the content and the level of access of contractor employees’ use of IRS IT systems.  Contractor employees do not have a right, nor should they have an expectation, of privacy while using any IRS information technology system at any time, including accessing the Internet or using e-mail.  Data maintained on government office equipment may be subject to discovery and Freedom of Information Act requests.  By using government information technology systems, consent to monitoring and recording is implied with or without cause, including (but not limited to) accessing the Internet or using e-mail or the telephone.  Any use of government information technology systems is made with the understanding that such use is generally not secure, is not private and is not anonymous.



7.	Subcontracts.



The Contractor shall incorporate this clause in all subcontracts, subcontract task or delivery orders or other subcontract performance instrument where the subcontractor employees will require access, use or operation of IRS information technology systems.



[End of clause]





1052.242-9000 POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE (SEP 2006)  



 IR1052.239-9008 Section 508 - Information, Documentation, and Support (Sep 2006)  



 IR1052.239-9011 Section 508 Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology (Sep 2006)  



52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) 



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days. 

(End of clause) 



52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)  

52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)  

52.246-6 INSPECTION OF SERVICES—FIXED PRICE (AUG 1996)  



IR1052.239-9016 – INFORMATION SYSTEM AND INFORMATION SECURITY CONTROL STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES APPLICABILITY (JUN 2013) 



As part of its information security program, IRS identifies security controls for the organization’s information and information systems in the following two key standards and guiding documents: 



o Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 10.8.1 – Information Technology (IT) Security, Policy and Guidance, and 



o Publication 4812 – Contractor Security Controls 



While IRM 10.8.1 and PUB 4812 are both based on NIST SP 800-53 (Rev. 3), they apply to different operating environments—internal and external to the organization, respectively. 

The Contractor, by signing its offer, hereby asserts to the best of its knowledge and belief that the security control guideline(s) most suitable and applicable to the immediate contracting action, with due consideration to its proposed approach (and work environment) for fulfilling the Government’s requirements and standards for applicability described herein, is as follows (check only one): 



___IRM 10.8.1 only      ____PUB 4812 only       ____Both IRM 10.8.1 and PUB 4812 



Unless the CO determines, in consultation with Cybersecurity, that a different (or a second) security control standard or guideline is warranted, the security level selected/applied for by the contractor under IR1052.239-9016 shall stand. In the event the Government determines a different (or second) security control standard or guideline is warranted, the CO shall advise the contractor, in writing, of the Government determination, and reflect the correct/appropriate security control standard or guideline in the ensuing contract. 



a. If PUB 4812 is selected (alone or in combination with IRM 10.8.1) as the most suitable security control guideline, the contractor must identify, as part of its proposal submissions (or its submissions under any modification to an existing contract incorporating this clause), the most suitable security control level within the following hierarchy of security control levels (from lowest or highest): 



Core (C) Security Controls 

(Abbreviated “C”) 

Core (C) plus value greater than Simplified Acquisition Threshold (SAT) 

(Abbreviated “CSAT”) 

Core (C) plus Networked Information Technology Infrastructure (NET) (Abbreviated “CNET”) 

Core (C) plus Software Application Development/Maintenance (SOFT) 

(Abbreviated “CSOFT”) 



(See PUB 4812, Appendix C for guidance in selecting the security control level most suitable and appropriate to the immediate contracting action. If additional guidance is needed in selecting the security control level, contact the Contracting Officer.) 



b. The Contractor, by signing its offer, hereby asserts to the best of its knowledge and belief that the security control level under PUB 4812 most suitable and applicable to the immediate contracting action, with due consideration to its proposed approach (and work environment) and standards for applicability described herein, is as follows (check only one): 



___C          ___ CSAT        ___ CNET          ___ CSOFT 



c. Unless the CO determines, in consultation with Cybersecurity, that a different (higher or lower) security control level is warranted for contracts subject to PUB 4812, the security level selected/applied for by the contractor will govern throughout the life of the contract. In the event the Government determines a different (higher or lower) security level is warranted, the CO will advise the contractor, in writing, of the Government determination. At the end of the contract, for all security levels, the contractor must provide a plan and document the implementation of this plan to ensure that all hard copy and electronic data is returned to the IRS, sanitized, or destroyed. 



d. Failure by the Contractor to check any block will result in the use of both guidelines (and for the PUB 4812 portion, use of the most stringent security control level (CSOFT)) until and unless the Contracting Officer, in consultation with IT Cybersecurity, determines otherwise. 



e. If required by the COR, the contractor will be required to input data into a system, to be defined by the IRS, to describe the security controls being used to protect information. 

(End of provision)

REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW (FEB 2012)



(1) The offeror does [ ]     does not [ ]  have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.



(2) The offeror, its officers or agents acting on its behalf have [ ]  have not [ ] been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months.

(End of provision)




Section L – Instructions to Offerors

52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS-COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013)



Your response must be submitted in accordance with the following instructions establishing the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of quotes.    All other responses shall be deemed non-responsive and rejected.   



The Request for Proposal (RFP) responses must be prepared in four parts:  Volume I-Technical, Volume II – Past Experience, Volume III - Past Performance, and Volume IV - Price. Each of these parts shall receive a separate evaluation of the other.  No Volume with the exception of Volume IV – Price shall contain any cost related to this RFP; however, resource information such as data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontracts, etc., must be contained in the technical submission so that your understanding of the scope of work may be evaluated.  It must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation that includes the requirements of the technical proposal instructions. The offeror shall acknowledge and return any or all amendment(s). The acknowledged amendments will be returned as part of Volume IV – Price.  All offerors shall submit a breakdown of their cost, failure to follow these instructions may render your response as non-responsive and subject to rejection.  



Your response to this RFP must be signed by an official authorized to bind your company.  Responses shall be submitted via email to Ms. Anita Proctor, Contract Specialist at  and Ms. Lynda Betancourt, Contracting Officer at .

 

4.  	Your response to this RFP shall become part of the official contract file. The Government will evaluate responses in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in this RFP.



5. 	This RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for preparation and submission of your proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this proposed acquisition.



6. 	Any resultant contract shall include all applicable clauses to the type of contract awarded.  

Any additional clauses required by public law, executive order, or acquisition regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed contract, will be included.



7. 	All questions/inquiries concerning the RFP document must be submitted by e-mail no later than 3:00 pm Eastern Standard Time on Thursday,  February 13, 2014 to  and .  Do not mail any questions/inquires.  Questions or inquiries received by normal mail, telephone, or fax will not be accepted.  The Government's response to the inquiries will be made in writing and posted as an amendment to this RFP.  In addition, any resulting additions, deletions, or changes to the RFP will be made by issuance of a formal amendment.  Offerors are instructed specifically to contact only the issuing contract office in connection with any aspect of this requirement prior to contract award. Proposals are due on no later than 3:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on Monday, March 3, 2014.  The Government does not intend to extend the due date for proposals.  



8.  	Proposal Format and Content.



		 i.  Paper, Page Size and Format.  Page size shall be 8.5 x 11 inches. Pages shall be single-spaced.  Use at least 1 inch margins on the top, bottom and side margins.  

     	

		 ii. Text Spacing and Type.  Except for the reproduced sections of the solicitation document, the text size shall be no less than 12 point. Pages shall be numbered sequentially by section.



		iii.  Illustrations and Tables.  Tables, charts, graphs, diagrams and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation schedules, plans, etc.  These displays shall be uncomplicated, legible and shall not exceed 8.5 x 11 inches.  For tables, charts, graphs and figures, the text shall be no smaller than 16 pitch.  Elaborate formats, bindings or color presentations are not required.  Elaborate brochures or documentation, binding, detailed artwork, or other embellishments are not required and neither are they desired.



		iv.  Number of Copies/Page Limits.  The offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table below.  The titles and contents of the sections shall be as defined in the table, all of which shall be within the required page limits and with the number of copies specified.  Proposals exceeding the page limitation set forth will not be read or evaluated. 



Note:  Cover pages will not count against the page limitation. 



9.  	VOLUME I -TECHNICAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 



		i. The Offeror’s proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP.  In addition, it must contain a statement to the effect that it is firm for a period of at least 60 days from the date of receipt by the Government.



		ii. Offerors shall submit proposals and data comprehensive enough to provide 

the basis for a sound evaluation.  The information should be precise, factual and responsive.

				

		iii. The technical submission must include information on how the project is to be organized, staffed, and managed.  Information should be provided which will demonstrate your understanding and management of the requirements contained in the PWS.  Management and or subcontractor efforts must be contained, if applicable with your proposal.  Offerors shall provide an organizational chart, which displays internal and external organization relationships and demonstrates who has responsibility for administrative oversight over each contract activity.



		iv. The technical submission shall reflect a clear understanding of the work to be accomplished. Proposals should clearly demonstrate the Offeror’s competence, technical understanding and approach in order to accomplish the requirements set forth in the PWS.











10.  VOLUME II – PAST EXPERIENCE INSTRUCTIONS



The Government will evaluate the quality and extent of offeror’s experience deemed relevant to the requirements of this RFP.  The Government will use information submitted by the offeror and other sources such as the Federal Government offices and commercial sources, to assess experience.  Provide a list of at least two (2), within the past five (5), of the most relevant contracts performed for Federal agencies and commercial customers within the last 3 years of this solicitation closing date that demonstrate your ability to perform the proposed effort.  



11. VOLUME III – PAST PERFORMANCE INSTRUCTIONS

 

		  i. Provide any information currently available (letters, metrics, customers' survey, independent surveys, etc.) which demonstrates customer satisfaction with overall job performance and quality of completed product for same or similar type discipline in the past three periods. In addition, explain corrective actions taken in the past, if any, for substandard performance and any current performance problems such as cost overruns, extended performance periods, etc.

              

  		ii. Offeror shall provide the past performance questionnaire to their references for them to 

complete and return directly to the contracting office via email to  and .



		iii. Past performance regarding predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience, or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement will be given a rating.  Offerors with no relevant past or present performance history shall receive the rating “neutral”, meaning the rating is rated neither favorable nor unfavorably.

			

  		iv. The Government will evaluate each offeror on its performance under existing and prior contracts for similar services.  The Government will use performance information for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor in determining the acceptability of an offeror.  The Government may contact references, other than those identified by the offeror, and use the information received to evaluate the offeror’s past performance.  



12. 	VOLUME IV – PRICE 

     	            

		i.  Offerors must show prices for the Base, itemizing by TASK 1 and TASK 2 combined and TASK 3 separately. Offerors must provide a total contract price.  All cost/price responses must include an itemized breakdown of cost.

                       

		ii. Complete blocks 12, 17a, 17b, 30a, 30b, and 30c of the Standard Form 1449.  In doing so, the offeror accedes to the contract terms and conditions as written in the RFP. 



		iii. Insert proposed unit and extended prices for each Contract Line Item Number (CLIN). The offeror shall include a fully completed price schedule in this section of their RFP.  Any offer, which fails to cite a price for each item, or fails to make an entry, may be subject to rejection.  The government contemplates the award of a firm fixed priced award.  All issued amendments shall be acknowledged and returned as part of this volume.  




PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE



The Department of Treasury, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requests your assistance in providing past performance information on the company listed below for the contract referenced below.  Please complete the questionnaire, scan, and e-mail to the IRS using the address listed below:







INSTRUCTIONS:



For each item, circle the rating that best describes the contractor's work on the contract, or if you do not know how the contractor performed (or is performing on a particular item), please circle (Not Applicable (N/A) on that item.  The rating scale is defined below.



0	Not Applicable (N/A):  Does not apply or you do not know.



1	Unsatisfactory	Achievement of contract requirement is compromised



2	Poor			Requires major agency resources to ensure achievement of contract 

		                  requirements.



3	Fair			Requires minor agency resources to ensure achievement of contract 					requirements.



4	Good			Does not impact achievement of contract requirements



5	Excellent		No problems, issues, or delays in achieving contract requirements



6	Outstanding	Cases where contractor performance exceeds Excellent





CONTRACT INFORMATION

Type of contract (Check all that apply)



[  ]	Negotiated		[  ]	Sealed Bidding		[  ]	Competitive

        [  ]	Non-Competitive	        [  ]       Firm-Fixed-Price		        [  ]        Requirements

        [  ]     Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee     [  ]       Time-and-Material	        [  ]    Indefinite Quantity

        [  ]      Labor Hour	        [  ]       Other _______________



Complete the following:



Period of Performance: _____________________ to ______________________

Initial Contract Value:  $____________________

Current (or Completed) Contract Value:  $_____________________



Brief Description of Requirement:



______________________________________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



Complexity of Effort:  [  ]  Difficult	[  ]  Routine



1.	QUALITY OF SERVICE:



(a)	Overall ability to pro-actively and aggressively perform contract requirements(s).



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(b)	Effectiveness, reliability, and technical proficiency of contractor's key personnel.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________











(c)	Ability to recruit and maintain qualified personnel.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(d)	Ability to satisfy security requirements (clearances for personnel, information protection, facilities, etc.).



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(e)	Ability to effectively implement "start-up" contract performance.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(f)	Ability to appropriately manage IT systems and data in a classified environment



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________





2.	TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE



(a)	Overall performance in planning, scheduling, and monitoring the work effort.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(b)	Completion of major milestones on schedule:



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(c)	Responsiveness and flexibility in responding to changes (both formal and informal).



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(d)	Responsiveness/capability to respond to surge/short term requirements.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(e)	Timely completion of efforts within period of performance.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



3.	PRICE/COST CONTROL:



(a)	Quality, completeness, and accuracy of price/cost proposals.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(b)	Accuracy and timeliness of cost reports.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(c)	Ability to perform within negotiated cost/price.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________







(d)	Accuracy and completeness of vouchers/invoices.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________





(e)	Incurrence of costs is in accordance with contract terms.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



4.	BUSINESS RELATIONS:



(a)	Ability to effectively manage contract.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________





(b)	Ability to choose subcontracts (if applicable to this contract being reported on).



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(c)	Ability to manage subcontracts (if applicable to this contract being reported on).



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(d)	Provides prompt notification of problems.



0    1    2    3    4    5    6   Comment: _____________________________________________________



______________________________________________________________________________



(e)	Organizational support structure provides adequate span of control and supervision.



Section M – Evaluation Criteria



52.212-2 Evaluation -- Commercial Items (Jan 1999)

Addendum to 52.212-2 -- Evaluation -- Commercial Items (Jan 1999)

(a)Responses to this requirement will be evaluated in accordance with criteria provided in the Request for Proposal (RFP) to the offer(s) determined to be the best value to the Government.  “Best Value” means the expected outcome of an acquisition, which in the Government’s estimation, provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement.

Technical factors include all factors other than the price factor.  Although technical factors combined are significantly more important than price, the Government will not automatically award to an Offeror that submits a proposal receiving the highest technical rating.  In determining the best overall value, the Government has the discretion to make an award to an offeror whose proposal price is lower than that of an Offeror whose proposal receives the highest technical rating.  Although price is of less importance than technical factors combined, the closer the technical ratings of the various proposals are to one another, the more important price consideration becomes in determining the best value to the Government.  The Government intends to make more than one award resulting from this solicitiation to the offerors whose proposals have been determined to be the best value to the Government.

 

Each Offeror’s proposal will be rated in accordance with its content.  The Government will not assume adequacy of performance in areas not specified in an Offeror’s written proposal.  Because the Government intends to evaluate proposals and make award without discussions with Offerors, each initial offer should contain the Offeror’s best offer with respect to both technical and price.  The Government, reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the contracting officer to be necessary.

 

Proposals that are unrealistic in terms of either a technical or price nature may be reflective of an inherent risk lack of competence or indicative of failure to comprehend the complexity and risks associated with the solicitation requirements and may result in a determination of unacceptability.



Evaluation Criteria:

 

Offeror responses shall be evaluated as to whether or not they have demonstrated the following criteria.  Technical factors are more important than price.  The importance of price will increase as the difference in technical responses decreases.

 

Offerors will be evaluated under four factors.  Factors 1-4 are in descending order of importance, and when combined, are of more importance than price.  (Note:  Price will be evaluated, but will not be assigned an adjectival rating, or scored).

 

Factor 1 – Technical Approach

Factor 2 – Past Experience

Factor 3 – Past Performance

Factor 4 - Price 



	FACTOR 1 – TECHNICAL APPROACH



The Offeror's technical approach demonstrates a clear understanding of the work to be performed.  The proposal outlines an effective, efficient, achievable approach for accomplishing the work to be performed by this purchase order within the timeline specified by either performance periods or documented in a deliverable schedule.



The Offeror shall  demonstrate knowledge of tax processing systems, for example, Individual Master File (IMF), Business Master File (BMF), CADE 2 Daily Processing and CADE 2 Database, Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS); supporting tools consistent with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) such as Knowledge Incident/Problem Service Asset Management (KISAM); and be able to work in a team environment.



Adjectival Rating for Factor 1



“Excellent” – Demonstrates an exceptional technical solution and comprehension of the solicitation requirements. The proposed technical solution outlines an effective, efficient, achievable approach that addresses all of the requirements as defined in the PWS. Demonstrates knowledge of tax processing systems, for example, Individual Master File (IMF), Business Master File (BMF), CADE 2 Daily Processing and CADE 2 Database, Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS); supporting tools consistent with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) such as Knowledge Incident/Problem Service Asset Management (KISAM); The Contractor shall provide examples of prior experience with all of these systems. This represents a proposal with many strengths, few if any weaknesses and no deficiencies.



“Good” – Demonstrates an above average technical solution and comprehension of the solicitation requirements. The proposed technical solution outlines an effective, efficient, achievable approach that addresses all of the requirements as defined in the PWS. The proposed technical solution outlines an effective, efficient, achievable approach that addresses all of the requirements as defined by Section C of the PWS. Demonstrates knowledge of tax processing systems, for example, Individual Master File (IMF), Business Master File (BMF), CADE 2 Daily Processing and CADE 2 Database, Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS); supporting tools consistent with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) such as Knowledge Incident/Problem Service Asset Management (KISAM); The Contractor shall provide examples of prior experience with all of these systems. This represents a proposal with several strengths, few weaknesses and no deficiencies.  



“Marginal” – Demonstrates an average technical solution and comprehension of the solicitation requirements.  The proposed technical solution outlines an approach that addresses all of the requirements as defined in the PWS. Demonstrates knowledge of tax processing systems, for example, Individual Master File (IMF), Business Master File (BMF), CADE 2 Daily Processing and CADE 2 Database, Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS); supporting tools consistent with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) such as Knowledge Incident/Problem Service Asset Management (KISAM); The Contractor shall provide examples of prior experience with all of these systems. This represents a proposal with some strengths, several weaknesses, and no deficiencies.  



“Unsatisfactory” – Demonstrates an inadequate technical solution and/or comprehension of the solicitation requirements.  The proposed technical solution outlines an approach that does not address all of the requirements as defined in the PWS and/or is not effective, efficient and/or achievable. Demonstrates inadequate knowledge of tax processing systems, for example, Individual Master File (IMF), Business Master File (BMF), CADE 2 Daily Processing and CADE 2 Database, Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS); supporting tools consistent with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) such as Knowledge Incident/Problem Service Asset Management (KISAM); The Contractor cannot provide examples of prior experience with all of these systems. This represents a proposal with few strengths, if any, several or more weaknesses, and one or more deficiencies.









		FACTOR 2 – PAST EXPERIENCE 



Offerors must demonstrate their past experience with working on Information Technology (IT) software development projects of similar size, scope, magnitude, and complexity as outlined in the PWS.  The Government shall evaluate offerors’ quality of experience working on projects similar in size, scope, magnitude and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation as outlined in the PWS. Past Experience shall be evaluated through the submission of at least two (2) Project Profiles but no more than five (5). Show experience with structured and unstructured data analysis. Provide examples of experience doing visualization of the data. 



One of the two references (primary and alternate) identified for each profile should have the ability to rate the contractor’s skill level in regard to the preceding technical criteria.  



		                Adjectival Rating for Factor 2



“Excellent” – Extensive experience exists managing contracts similar in size, scope and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation. Little or no potential exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance.



“Good” – Better than adequate experience exists managing contracts similar in size, scope and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation. Minimal potential exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance. 



“Marginal” – Adequate experience exists managing contracts similar in size, scope and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation. Some potential exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance, which may be mitigated, however, by special contractor emphasis and close Government monitoring. 



“Unsatisfactory” – Limited experience exists managing contracts similar in size, scope and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation. Significant potential exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance even with special contractor emphasis and close Government monitoring.



             FACTOR 3 - PAST PERFORMANCE



Evaluation of past performance may be based upon past performance information contained in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), and upon the completed questionnaires obtained from the technical competency references identified by the Offerors.  PPIRS has been established as a Government-wide performance system, and serves as a central warehouse for performance assessment reports received from various Federal performance information collections systems. Based upon information contained in PPIRS and in the technical competency references, the Government shall evaluate offerors’ relevant corporate past performance by measuring the quality of management of all aspects of contracts similar in size, scope and complexity to that contemplated by the solicitation. Past performance is relevant when an Offeror has been confronted with the kinds of challenges and risks contemplated by the solicitation. In order for the past performance to be considered recent, it must be performed within the past three (3) years.  



The offeror shall provide one technical-competency reference and one alternate reference for each project profile submitted.  The references must have been associated with the project during the last three years.  The Offeror shall ensure that the contact information for each reference is current and accurate.  The Government will attempt to contact the reference for each project profile relative to past performance in addition to reviewing past performance questionnaires.  



		                      Adjectival Rating for Factor 3



“Excellent” – Highly relevant past/present performance record, managing contracts/task orders.  Little or no potential risk exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance based on the Offeror’s past performance.  



“Good” – Relevant past/present performance record managing contracts/task orders.. Minimal potential risk exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance based on the Offeror’s past performance. 



“Marginal” – Relevant past/present performance record managing contracts/task orders. Moderate potential risk exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance based on the Offeror’s past performance.



“Unsatisfactory” – Highly relevant or relevant past/present performance may exist; however, significant potential risk exists for disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance based on the Offeror’s past performance. 



“Neither Favorable or Unfavorable” – No record of relevant past/present performance exists or relevant past/present performance history is not available. There is no expectation of either successful or unsuccessful performance based on the Offeror’s past performance record.  The offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance.



	FACTOR 4 – PRICE



The Government will evaluate proposed price to determine if the overall prices are realistic for the work to be performed, reflect a clear understanding of the requirements, and are consistent with the offeror’s technical proposal. Prices that are unrealistic for the effort contemplated by this solicitation may indicate a lack of understanding of the solicitation requirement and may also result in a lower technical evaluation. Price analysis will be used to verify that the overall price is fair and reasonable.



AWARD OF FULL QUANTITY



Offerors must submit prices for all lines items and all quantities, including option quantities to be eligible for award.



COMPETITIVE RANGE DETERMINATION



The Government reserves the right to limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals. The Government may also limit the discussions/negotiations with the Offeror’s in the competitive range to purely technical and/or cost & price issues in the interest of efficiency. 



		Description of Risk Ratings



The risk ratings assess the risks and weaknesses associated with each Offeror’s proposed approach to performing the requirements stated in the RTCP/RTPP. One overall Risk rating will be assigned to each offeror.



“Low Risk” – Offeror is more likely to succeed than fail.



“Medium Risk” – Offeror is equally likely to succeed or fail.



“High Risk” - Offeror is more likely to fail than succeed.



b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.











SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

1.	REQUISITION NUMBER

Q-4-QR-01-A1-A60 000

PAGE 1 OF 662 



PAGE 1 OF 662 



PAGE 1 OF 662 



PAGE 1 OF 662 



2.	CONTRACT NO.



2.	CONTRACT NO.



2.	CONTRACT NO.



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



3.	AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



4.	ORDER NUMBER



4.	ORDER NUMBER



4.	ORDER NUMBER



4.	ORDER NUMBER



4.	ORDER NUMBER



4.	ORDER NUMBER



5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

5.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

TIRNO-14-R-00016

6.	SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

2014-02-06 05:00:00.0

6.	SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

2014-02-06 05:00:00.0

6.	SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

2014-02-06 05:00:00.0

6.	SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

2014-02-06 05:00:00.0

7.	FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

7.	FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:



a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

a. NAME

ANITA L PROCTOR

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

b.	TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

 2406138301

8.	OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

2014-03-03 20:00:00.0

8.	OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

2014-03-03 20:00:00.0

8.	OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

2014-03-03 20:00:00.0

8.	OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

2014-03-03 20:00:00.0

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

 9. ISSUED BY

CODE 

CODE 

CODE 

CODE 

CODE 

CODE 

12163 

12163 

12163 

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

     UNRESTRICTED OR

     UNRESTRICTED OR

     UNRESTRICTED OR

     UNRESTRICTED OR

     UNRESTRICTED OR

        SET ASIDE:        % FOR

        SET ASIDE:        % FOR

        SET ASIDE:        % FOR

        SET ASIDE:        % FOR

        SET ASIDE:        % FOR

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Internal Revenue Service   6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   SMALL BUSINESS 

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

   WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) 

     ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOSB PROGRAM

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

Oxon Hill, MD 20745

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS 

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   EDWOSB 	NAICS:   

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

   ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN 

       OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

     8(A) 	     SIZE STANDARD:  

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION 

   UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 

    13a. THIS  CONTRACT IS A 

     RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS 

     (15 CFR700)  

    13a. THIS  CONTRACT IS A 

     RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS 

     (15 CFR700)  

    13a. THIS  CONTRACT IS A 

     RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS 

     (15 CFR700)  

    13a. THIS  CONTRACT IS A 

     RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS 

     (15 CFR700)  

    13a. THIS  CONTRACT IS A 

     RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS 

     (15 CFR700)  

13b.  RATING



13b.  RATING



13b.  RATING



13b.  RATING



13b.  RATING



13b.  RATING











	SEE SCHEDULE 



	SEE SCHEDULE 



	SEE SCHEDULE 



	SEE SCHEDULE 



	SEE SCHEDULE 



	SEE SCHEDULE 





















	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

14.	METHOD OF SOLICITATION

	RFQ                         IFB                         RFP

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

15.  DELIVER TO

CODE



CODE



CODE



15977

15977

15977

15977

15977

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

16.	ADMINISTERED BY

CODE

CODE

CODE

12163

12163

12163

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745

ANITA L PROCTOR    2406138301

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road, Suite 500

Oxon Hill, MD 20745



17a.	CONTRACTOR/

	

17a.	CONTRACTOR/

	

17a.	CONTRACTOR/

	

CODE

CODE









FACILITY



FACILITY



FACILITY



FACILITY



FACILITY







18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

18a.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

CODE

CODE

15977

15977

15977

	OFFEROR

	OFFEROR

	OFFEROR













	CODE

	CODE

	CODE

	CODE

	CODE

	CODE































To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





To All Offerors





Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Rd

Oxon Hill , MD 20745



TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         

TELEPHONE NO.         





























	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

	17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 	  OFFER

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

18b.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK 

	BELOW IS CHECKED.		  SEE ADDENDUM

19.

ITEM NO.

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21.

QUANTITY

21.

QUANTITY

22.

UNIT

22.

UNIT

23.

UNIT PRICE 

23.

UNIT PRICE 

23.

UNIT PRICE 

23.

UNIT PRICE 

23.

UNIT PRICE 

23.

UNIT PRICE 

24.

AMOUNT 

24.

AMOUNT 

24.

AMOUNT 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 









NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

NSP

0001

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

TASK 1 Kick-Off Meeting - The IRS will 

1.00

1.00

LO

LO

__________

__________

__________

__________

__________

__________

__________

__________

__________



conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 

conduct the kick-off meeting via telephone 





























conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

conference

























































































TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 

TASK 2 Reverse Engineering - The Contractors 





























shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 

shall provide a preliminary reverse 





























engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 

engineering analysis for the subject ALC 





























code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 

code including any intermediary 





























representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 

representation (e.g. pseudo-code, call 





























trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 

trees, control-flow graphs, data-flow 





























(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)



























25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





25.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 





26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

26.	TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)



 

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	 27a.	SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4.  FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                             ARE 	      ARE NOT ATTACHED.

	

         27b.	CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA 		ARE	            ARE NOT ATTACHED.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

        28.  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN        1    

        COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER

        ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL  

        SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

       29.  AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.                                        OFFER  

	  DATED                               .  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK  5).      

        INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH   

        HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

30a.	SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

31a.	UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30b.  NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30c.  DATE SIGNED



30c.  DATE SIGNED



30c.  DATE SIGNED



30c.  DATE SIGNED



30c.  DATE SIGNED



30c.  DATE SIGNED



31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31b  NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)





31c.  DATE SIGNED



31c.  DATE SIGNED



31c.  DATE SIGNED





19.

ITEM NO.

19.

ITEM NO.

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21.

QUANTITY

22.

UNIT

23.

UNIT PRICE (US$)

24.

AMOUNT (US$)





  (CONTINUE)

  (CONTINUE)

  (CONTINUE)

  (CONTINUE)

  (CONTINUE)

  (CONTINUE)













machines, data structures and class 

machines, data structures and class 

machines, data structures and class 

machines, data structures and class 

machines, data structures and class 

machines, data structures and class 













diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).

diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).

diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).

diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).

diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).

diagrams).  (SEE PWS for further details).





































Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 













Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 













equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 













accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 













attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 













entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering.?





















































NSP

NSP

0002

0002

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

TASK 3 Forward Engineering - The Contractor 

1.00

LO

__________

__________





shall deliver a high-level design for 

shall deliver a high-level design for 

shall deliver a high-level design for 

shall deliver a high-level design for 

shall deliver a high-level design for 

shall deliver a high-level design for 













software that replicates the business 

software that replicates the business 

software that replicates the business 

software that replicates the business 

software that replicates the business 

software that replicates the business 













functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 

functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 

functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 

functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 

functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 

functionality of the demonstration ALC code. 













(See PWS for further details).

(See PWS for further details).

(See PWS for further details).

(See PWS for further details).

(See PWS for further details).

(See PWS for further details).





































Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 

Base Period - six weeks from date of award 













Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 

Contractor shall provide all personnel, 













equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 

equipment, and resources necessary to 













accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 

accomplish all tasks associated with the 













attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 

attached Performance Work Statement (PWS), 













entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

entitled ?ALC to JAVA Reengineering

















































































































































































































































































32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32a.	QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN



	RECEIVED	            INSPECTED	               ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 



32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT         

         REPRESENTATIVE

32c.  DATE

32d.  PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 

         REPRESENTATIVE

32d.  PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 

         REPRESENTATIVE

32d.  PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 

         REPRESENTATIVE

32d.  PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 

         REPRESENTATIVE

32d.  PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 

         REPRESENTATIVE

























32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e.  MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f.  TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f.  TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f.  TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f.  TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f.  TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE



































































32g.  E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g.  E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g.  E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g.  E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g.  E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE







































33.  SHIP NUMBER



33.  SHIP NUMBER



33.  SHIP NUMBER



33.  SHIP NUMBER



33.  SHIP NUMBER



34.  VOUCHER NUMBER

  35.AMOUNT VERIFIED 	CORRECT FOR

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

37.  CHECK NUMBER







PARTIAL

PARTIAL



FINAL





36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

36.  PAYMENT

      

       COMPLETE	     PARTIAL	     FINAL

37.  CHECK NUMBER





38.  S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

38.  S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

38.  S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

38.  S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

38.  S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

39.S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40.  PAID BY

40.  PAID BY

40.  PAID BY

40.  PAID BY

40.  PAID BY

40.  PAID BY

























        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

        41a.  I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41c.  DATE

42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



42.a.  RECEIVED BY (Print)



















42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)

42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)

42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)

42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)

42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)































































42.c DATE REC’D (YY/MM/DD)



42.c DATE REC’D (YY/MM/DD)



42.c DATE REC’D (YY/MM/DD)



42d.  TOTAL CONTAINERS



42d.  TOTAL CONTAINERS







Deliverable /Work Product

Schedule**



Task 1 – Kick-off Meeting



1.

Kick-off Meeting 

First Monday, but no sooner than 3 business days after award (Day 1)

2.

Signed Non-Disclosure and Conflict of Interest Agreements

One hour prior to kick-off

3.

Deliverables Form

One hour prior to kick-off

4.

Accounting period end dates

By end of kick-off

5.

Access method for virtual meetings for Tasks 2 & 3

End of day of kick-off



Task 2 – Reverse Engineering



6.

Question and Answer Session – SMEs available to answer technical questions/coding practices regarding the ALC

The First business day after kick-off (Day 2 – Tuesday)

7.

Reverse engineering representation; submit file ***

Desired Day 5 – Friday

8.

Preliminary reverse engineering analysis

Desired Day 5 – Friday 

9.

Intermediary representation artifacts ***

Desired Day 5 – Friday 

10.

Final reverse engineering analysis

Desired Day 10 – Friday (2nd wk)

11.

Evidence of completeness validation and verification

Desired Day 10 – Friday (2nd wk)

12.

Reverse Engineering Presentation Materials

Desired Day 10 – Friday (2nd wk)

13.

Reverse Engineering Presentation Delivery (by phone or web)*

As scheduled by the Government over a 5 business day period, no sooner than 10 business days after kick-off (Days 11 – 15)(Mon – Fri, 3rd week)



Task 3 – Forward Engineering



14.

High-level software design traced from ALC code

Desired Day 17 – Tuesday 4th wk

15.

Detailed software design traced from high-level design

Desired Day 20 – Friday 4th wk

16.

Target source code with driver or test environment, and documentation

Desired Day 25 – Friday 5th wk

17.

Test scenarios, test scripts, test cases and test results/reports

Desired Day 25 – Friday 5th wk

18.

Forward engineering paper and presentation materials

Desired Day 26 – Monday 6th wk

19.

Forward engineering Presentation Delivery (by phone or web)*

As scheduled by the Government over a 5 business day period, no sooner than 25 business days after kick-off (Days 26 – 30)(Mon – Fri, 6th week)



Name

Position

Employment History

Subject matter/system knowledge



























Task

Performance Standard

Expectation

The Contractor shall complete the Deliverables Form provided by the Government. 

The entire Deliverables form must be completed accurately.



Return to the COR at least 1-hour prior to the Kick-off Meeting.





Task

Performance Standard

Expectation

The Contractor shall participate in the Question and Answer session.

Contractor attends the meeting on time and has reviewed the ALC code.

No more than 3 follow-up questions after the session.

The Contractor shall provide preliminary reverse engineering analysis, including any intermediary representation and the preliminary analysis that demonstrates identification and understanding of the functionality. 

Tool output and preliminary analysis functionality is submitted timely.

50% of functionality is identified.

The Contractor shall provide the final analysis of the subject ALC code.

Representation of functionality and evidence of validation are submitted timely.

80% of functionality  is identified

The Contractor shall provide a presentation that includes the reverse engineering process that they followed.

Interactive presentation is 90 minutes or less and includes their reverse engineering methodology, observations from this engagement and future planning considerations. Actual level of effort for this task and percentage of time for the tool and manual intervention is included.

Presentation does not exceed time limit and is in a manner that is understood by the audience.



Task

Performance Standard

Expectations

The Contractor shall provide a high-level (logical) design based on their results from the Reverse Engineering Task.

High-level design based on transformation of business rules and functional requirements

Demonstration that software architectural design and data design is traceable to ALC functionality and/or business rules.

The Contractor shall provide a detailed design.

Software design description based on high level design.

Demonstration that detailed data structure and algorithmic representations are traceable ALC functionality and/or business rules through the high-level design.

The Contractor shall provide the Java (or other high-level language) source code electronically.

Tested and compilable source code, including any required framework or components not in basic installations.

Code can be compiled and run in standard Java (or other high-level language) environment.

The Contractor shall document the source code.

Code documentation.

Includes information about structure, data, use, and maintenance.

The Contractor shall develop test scenarios, test scripts, test cases, and test results/reports.

Copies of test scenarios, test scripts, test cases and test results/reports.

Defects are corrected and regression tested.

The Contractor shall provide a strategy or white paper addressing specific consideration when migrating from ALC (or other non-object oriented language) to Java

Paper addresses methods used or recommended in reverse engineering and in forward engineering. Considerations for planning a large scale migration are addressed.

Paper is well organized, clear and thorough. Problems and risks are identified; solutions and mitigations are evaluated and presented.

The Contractor shall provide a presentation that includes the forward engineering process that they followed.

Interactive presentation is 90 minutes or less and includes their reengineering methodology, observations from this engagement and future planning considerations. Actual level of effort for this task and percentage of time for each sub-task is included.

Presentation does not exceed time limit and is in a manner that is understood by the audience.







The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) requires each federal agency to provide periodic information security awareness training to all employees, including contractors, involved in the management, use, or operation of Federal information and information systems.  In addition, IRS contractors and their employees are subject to the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997, which prohibits willful unauthorized inspection of returns and return information.  Violation of the Act could result in civil and criminal penalties. 



Contractors and their employees who require staff-like access to IRS information or information systems at an IRS facility or a contractor-owned/managed facility shall complete IRS security awareness training annually, as specified in the contract. 



NOTE:  “IRS information” means Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) information, as defined in.   SBU may be categorized in one or more of the following groups—

Returns and Return Information 

Sensitive Law Enforcement Information

Employee Information

Personally Identifiable Information

Other Protected Information



The contractor shall ensure all contractor employees who require staff-like access to IRS owned or controlled facilities, or IRS information or information systems, regardless of their physical location, complete one or more Information Protection briefings on computer security, disclosure, privacy, physical security, and/or UNAX, as specified by CSLP.   Individually and collectively, these briefings make up the IRS Security Awareness Training (SAT) requirements for the Service’s information assets.



Personnel required to complete SAT include, but are not necessarily limited to, contractor employees involved in any of the following activities:



Manage, program or maintain IRS information in a production environment;

Operate an information system on behalf of the IRS;

Conduct testing or development of information or information systems on behalf of the IRS; or

Provide advisory and assistance (consulting) services, or administrative support. 



Unless otherwise provided under the terms of the immediate contract/order, contractor employees in the following service categories with facilities access only who do not have access to IRS workspace, or who work in buildings where a clean desk policy is in place for all IRS employees, are not required to complete SAT –with the exception of Physical Security Training.:



Medical;

Cafeteria; 

Landscaping;

Janitorial and cleaning (daylight operations);

Building maintenance; or 

Other maintenance and repair.  



All new contractor employees shall receive a system security orientation within the first ten (10) business days following initial assignment to any IRS contract/order, and IT security awareness training (commensurate with the individual’s duties and responsibilities) within five (5)  business days of being granted access to an IRS IT system.   



For each contractor employee assigned to this contract/order, the contractor shall submit confirmation of completed SAT (using the form at the  web site or upon email request to CSLP at ), via email, to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP) upon completion, but not later than ten (10) business days of starting work on this contract/task order.



Thereafter, each contractor employee assigned to this contract/order shall complete SAT annually not later than April 30th of each year in which there is an ongoing period of performance (in either the base period or any exercised option period).  The contractor shall submit confirmation of completed annual SAT on all contractor employees assigned to this contract/order, via email, to the CO, COTR, and the Contractor Security Lifecycle Program (CSLP) upon completion, or not later than May 12th of the then current calendar year or as requested by CSLP (whichever date is earlier).   



Contractors shall verify in writing within 30 days of contract modification, and by May 12, of each year thereafter, that all of their affected employees have successfully completed the specified SAT.  Verification reports shall be signed by an official with the authority to legally bind the Contractor.  



SAT is available on the  web site or if this site is not accessible, SAT materials will be made available by CSLP upon request via email to ).



Contractor employees who fail to comply with IRS security policy (to include completion and certification of SAT requirements within the timeframe specified) may be subject to having their access to IRS IT systems and facilities suspended, revoked or terminated (temporarily or permanently).



[End of clause]





In performing the services described herein, the contractor agrees to comply and assume responsibility for compliance by his/her employees with the following requirements:



(1)	The films or photo impressions and reproductions made there from shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and information contained in such material shall be treated as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.



(2)	All the services shall be performed under the supervision of the contractor or his/her responsible employees.



(3)	All material received for processing and all processed and reproduced material shall be kept in a locked and fireproof compartment in a secure place when not being worked upon.



(4)	All spoilage of reproductions made from the film or photo impressions supplied to the contractor shall be destroyed and a written statement under the penalties of perjury shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer that such destruction has been accomplished.



(5)	All film, photo impressions, and reproductions made there from shall be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service by personal delivery, express mail, first-class mail, parcel post, or bonded carrier.



(6)	Inspection by or disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor shall require prior written approval of the Internal Revenue Service.  Requests to make such inspection or disclosure shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer.



(7)	Should the contractor or one of his/her employees make any unauthorized inspection(s) or disclosure(s) of confidential tax information, the terms of the Default clause (FAR 52.249-6 Alternative IV Termination for convenience of the Government and default Time and Material and labor hour), incorporated herein by reference, may be invoked, and the contractor will be considered to be in breach of this contract.



 (8)	(Include any additional safeguards that should be stipulated.)



[End of Clause]





In performance of this contract, the contractor agrees to comply with and assume responsibility for compliance by his/her employees with the following requirements: 





(1) All work shall be performed under the supervision of the contractor or the contractor's responsible employees. 



(2) Any return or return information made available in any format shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract. Information contained in such material shall be treated as confidential and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract. Inspection by or disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor shall require prior written approval of the Internal Revenue Service. Requests to make such inspections or disclosures should be addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer. 



(3) All returns and return information will be accounted for upon receipt and properly stored before, during, and after processing. In addition, all related output shall be given the same level of protection as required for the source material. 



(4) The contractor certifies that the data processed during the performance of this contract shall be completely purged from all data storage components of his/her computer facility and no output will be retained by the contractor at the time the IRS work is completed. If immediate purging of all data storage components is not possible, the contractor certifies that any IRS data remaining in any storage component will be safeguarded to prevent unauthorized inspection or disclosure. 



(5) Any spoilage or any intermediate hard copy printout which may result during the processing of IRS data shall be given to the IRS Contracting Officer or his/her designee. When this is not possible, the contractor will be responsible for the destruction of the spoilage or any intermediate hard copy printouts and shall provide the IRS Contracting Officer or his/her designee with a statement containing the date of destruction, description of material destroyed, and the method used. 



(6) No work involving information furnished under this contract will be subcontracted without the specific approval of the IRS Contracting Officer. 



(7) All computer systems, processing, storing and transmitting tax data must meet or exceed Controlled Access Protections (CAP) wherein the operating security features of the system have the following minimum requirements: (a) an approved security policy; (b) accountability; (c) assurance; and (d) documentation. 



(8) Should a person (contractor or subcontractor) or one of his/her employees make any unauthorized inspection(s) or disclosure(s) of confidential tax information, the terms of the Default clause (FAR 52.249-6 Alternative IV Termination for convenience of the Government and default Time and Material and labor hour), incorporated herein by reference, may be invoked, and the person (contractor or subcontractor) will be considered to be in breach of this contract. 

 (9)	[Include any additional safeguards that may be appropriate.]



                             [End of Clause]





Any Treasury Department Information made available or to which access is provided, and which is marked or should be marked "Sensitive but Unclassified Use Only", shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.  Disclosure to anyone other than an officer or employee of the contractor or subcontractor at any tier shall require prior written approval of the IRS.  Requests to make such disclosure should be addressed to the IRS Contracting Officer.          [End of Clause] 





(1)	Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) at any tier to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by the person (contractor or subcontractor) that returns or return information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein constitutes a felony punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $5,000 or imprisonment for as long as five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized future disclosure of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount not less than $1,000 with respect to each instance of unauthorized disclosure plus in the case of willful disclosure or a disclosure which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the cost of the action.  These penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213 and 7431 and set forth at 26 CFR 301.6103(n)-1.



(2)	Each officer or employee of any person (contractor or subcontractor) to whom returns or return information is or may be disclosed shall be notified in writing by such person that any return or return information made available in any format shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and that inspection of any such returns or return information for a purpose or to an extent not authorized herein constitutes a criminal misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of as much as $1,000.00 or imprisonment for as long as 1 year, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.  Such person (contractor or subcontractor) shall also notify each such officer and employee that any such unauthorized inspection of returns or return information may also result in an award of civil damages against the officer or employee in an amount equal to the sum of the greater of $1,000.00 for each act of unauthorized inspection with respect to which such defendant is found liable or the sum of the actual damages  sustained by the plaintiff as a result of such unauthorized inspection plus in the case of a willful inspection or an inspection which is the result of gross negligence, punitive damages, plus the costs of the action.  The penalties are prescribed by IRC Sections 7213A and 7431.



(3)	Additionally, it is incumbent upon the contractor to inform its officers and employees of the penalties for improper disclosure imposed by the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a.  Specifically, 5 U.S.C. 552a(I)(1), which is made applicable to contractors by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1), provides that any officer or employee of a contractor, who by virtue of his/her employment or official position, has possession of or access to agency records which contain individually identifiable information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by the Privacy Act or regulations established thereunder, and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.

                                                                                             [End of Clause] 





1052.232-7003 Electronic Invoicing and Payment Requirements for the Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) (Aug 2012)







a.	Contractor Performance Evaluations



Interim and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR Subpart 42.15.  A final performance evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work.  In addition to the final evaluation, interim evaluations will be prepared to coincide with the anniversary date of the contract. (**If evaluations are to be conducted more or less frequently than annually, modify this sentence as appropriate.)



Interim and final evaluations shall be available to the Contractor through the National Institutes of Health Contractor Performance System (CPS) as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation.  The Contractor will be permitted thirty days to review the document and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement.  Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual one level above the CO, whose decision shall be final.



Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions.



b.	Electronic Access to Contractor Performance Evaluations



Contractors must register with CPS in order to review and comment on agency prepared contractor interim and final evaluation reports.  Contractors can do this by registering online at the CPS web site. 



The registration process requires the contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact and who will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment.  In addition, the Contractor will be required to identify an alternate contact who will be responsible for notifying the cognizant contracting official in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time frame.



[End of clause]





In accordance with 36 CFR 1194, Subpart D, the electronic information technology (EIT) products and product support services furnished in performance of this contract shall be documented to indicate the current conformance level with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, per the 1998 Amendments, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board’s Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards.  At no time during the performance of the award shall the level of conformance go below the level of conformance in place at the time of award.  At no additional cost, the contractor shall provide information, documentation, and support relative to the supplies and services as described in Attachment 1.  The contractor shall maintain this detailed listing of compliant products for the full contract term, including forms of extensions, and shall ensure that it is current within five calendar days after award and within three calendar days of changes in products being utilized as follows:



(a)	Product support documentation provided to end-users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request, at no additional charge.



(b)	End-users shall have access to a description of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in alternate formats or alternate methods upon request, at no additional charge.



(c)	Support services for products shall accommodate the communication needs of end-users with disabilities.



 [End of clause]





Each electronic and information technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will apply the remedies described under FAR 52.246-6, Inspection of Supplies _ Time and Material and Labor Hour.

The following technical standards and provisions have been determined to be applicable to this contract:

 __X_	1194.21, Software applications and operating systems. X(a) X(b) X(c) X(d) X(e) X(f) X(g) X(h) X(i) X(j) X(k) X(l)



 ___	1194.22, Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j) _(k) _(l) _(m) _(n) _(o) _(p)



 ___       1194.23, Telecommunications products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j) _(k)



 ___	1194.24, Video and multimedia products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d)



 ___	1194.25, Self contained, closed products. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d) _(e) _(f) _(g) _(h) _(i) _(j)



 ___	1194.26, Desktop and portable computers. _(a) _(b) _(c) _(d)



The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future.



The following functional performance criteria (36 CFR 1194.31) apply to this contract. 

 _x__	(a) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided.

 __x_	(b) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided.

 _x__	(c) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided.

 __x_ 	(d) 	Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided.

 _x__	(e) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided.

 _x__ 	(f) 	At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.



[End of clause]





 

 (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 5 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 6 months. 



(End of clause)  



52.212.-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications -- Commercial Items (Aug 2013)

An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via  . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision.

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision--

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.

“Inverted domestic corporation,” as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874.

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals;

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;

(8) FSC 9610, Ores;

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended.

Sensitive technology—

(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically—

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or

(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—

(1) Means a small business concern—

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.

“Subsidiary” means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned—

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation.

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern --

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127),” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States.

(b) 

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAMwebsite.

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through . After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply.

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern.

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern.

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that—

(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that—

(i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern.

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:

___________________________________________

(10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.]

(i) General. The offeror represents that either—

(A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or

(B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.

(ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that--

(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and

(ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 --

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that --

(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and

(ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that --

(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or

(ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made.

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act – Supplies, is included in this solicitation.)

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary]

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

(g)

(1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act.”

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary]

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”

Other Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary]

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Canadian End Products:

Line Item No.:

___________________________________________

[List as necessary]

(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary]

(4) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary]

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.

Other End Products

[List as necessary]

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and

(3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

(4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]

(1) Listed End Product

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]

[_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.

[_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly—

(1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2) [_] Outside the United States.

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]

(1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that—

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations;

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

(2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that—

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii));

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.

(l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.)

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

(2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).

[_] TIN:_____________________.

[_] TIN has been applied for.

[_] TIN is not required because:

[_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States;

[_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;

[_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government;

(4) Type of organization.

[_] Sole proprietorship;

[_] Partnership;

[_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);

[_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt);

[_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local);

[_] Foreign government;

[_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;

[_] Other ____________________.

(5) Common parent.

[_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent:

[_] Name and TIN of common parent:

Name ____________________________________

TIN ______________________________________

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874.

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that—

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

(o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran.

(1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at .

(2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror—

(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; 

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and

(iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at ).

(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if—

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

(End of Provision)





52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS. (Jan 2014)  



 





 52.216-1  TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of firm fixed price contract(s) resulting from this solicitation.



(End of Provision)

	

52.227-14 RIGHTS IN DATA--GENERAL (Dec 2007)  



 





 1052.204-9000 Screening Requirements  





LINE ITEM NO.

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

  

  

  

  

  

  

LINE ITEM NO.

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

  

  

  

  

  

  

LINE ITEM NO.

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

  

  

  

  

  

  

Line Item No.:

Country of Origin:

  

  

  

  

  

  

Line Item No.:

Country of Origin:

  

  

  

  

  

  

Line Item No.:

Country of Origin:

  

  

  

  

  

  

Listed End Product:

Listed Countries of Origin:

  

  

  

  

  

  



 

  a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:



(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 



___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 



(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). 



(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78) 



(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:



__ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government 

(Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). 



__(2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). 



__ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (JUNE 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 



__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 



__ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment ActReporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).

 

__ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Governments Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 



__(7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). 



__ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). 



__ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) 7501(15 U.S.C. 657a). 



__ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a).



__ (11) [Reserved]

	

__ (12) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644).



__ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011).



__ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011).



__ (13) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003)(15 U.S.C. 644).



  (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.



__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.



__ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).



__ (15) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011)(15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)).



__  (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.



__  (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.



___ (iv) Alternate III (JUL 2010) of 52.219-9.



_(16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). 



__  (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).



__  (18) 52.219-16,       Liquidated DamagesSubcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). 



__  (19) )(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 



__  (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.



__ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation ProgramDisadvantaged Status and Reporting (DEC 2010)(Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).



__  (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). 



__  (22) 52.219-27, Notice of  Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).



__  (23)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation 

(Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). 



__ (24) 52.219-29 Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012).  (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). 



__ (25) 52.219-30 Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012).  (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). 



_X_  (26) 52.222-3,  Convict Labor  (June 2003) (E.O. 11755) 



X  (27) 52.222-19, Child LaborCooperation with Authorities and Remedies 

(Jan 2014) (E.O. 13126).



X  (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).



X  (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)(E.O. 11246).



 X(30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sept 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).



X (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010)(29 U.S.C. 793).



X (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans, (Sept 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).



__ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 



__ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) 



__ (35)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPADesignated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 



__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 



X (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). 



__ (37)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 



__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. 



X(38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513). 



X (39) 52.225-1, Buy American ActSupplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). 



__ (40)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act Free Trade Agreements Israeli Trade Act (Nov 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, and Pub. L. 112-41). 



 (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. 



 (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. 



__ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3.



__ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Nov 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). 



__ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 



__ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). 



__ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). 



__ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). 



__ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). 



X (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferCentral Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). 



__ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferOther than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). 



__ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). 



X (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). 



__ (51)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). 



__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. 



c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 



__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract ActPrice Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract ActPrice Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain EquipmentRequirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain ServicesRequirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



__ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 



__ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) 

(31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). 



(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation.



(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractors directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.



(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.



(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.



(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause 



(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). 



(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 



(iii) [Reserved] 



(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 



(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sept 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 



(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). 



(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. 



(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 



__Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 



(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq



(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013).



(xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). 



(xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. 



(xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. 



(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 



(End of Clause)







As prescribed in 27.409(b)(1), insert the following clause with any appropriate alternates: 



 (a) Definitions. As used in this clause 



Computer database or database means a collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. 



Computer software 



(1) Means 



(i) Computer programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations; and 



(ii) Recorded information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. 



(2) Does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. 



Computer software documentation means owners manuals, users manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. 



Data means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 



Form, fit, and function data means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, and data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements. For computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithms, processes, formulas, and flow charts of the software. 



Limited rights means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(3) if included in this clause. 



Limited rights data means data, other than computer software, that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, to the extent that such data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, including minor modifications. 



Restricted computer software means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret, is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, or is copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of the computer software. 



Restricted rights, as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software. 



Technical data means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software documentation). This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature that is included in computer databases (See 41 U.S.C. 403(8)). 



Unlimited rights means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 



(b) Allocation of rights. 



(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government shall have unlimited rights in 



(i) Data first produced in the performance of this contract; 



(ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this contract; 



(iii) Data delivered under this contract (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this contract; and 



(iv) All other data delivered under this contract unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause. 



(2) The Contractor shall have the right to 



(i) Assert copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; 



(ii) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause; 



(iii) Substantiate the use of, add, or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and 



(iv) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause. 



(c) Copyright 



(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 



(i) Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor may, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, assert copyright in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract and published in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings, or similar works. The prior, express written permission of the Contracting Officer is required to assert copyright in all other data first produced in the performance of this contract. 



(ii) When authorized to assert copyright to the data, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, and an acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number). 



(iii) For data other than computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly by or on behalf of the Government. For computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted computer software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly (but not to distribute copies to the public) by or on behalf of the Government. 



(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract unless the Contractor 



(i) Identifies the data; and 



(ii) Grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause or, if such data are restricted computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (g)(4) of this clause (if included in this contract) or as otherwise provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this contract. 



(3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government will not remove any authorized copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and will include such notices on all reproductions of the data. 



(d) Release, publication, and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except 



(1) As prohibited by Federal law or regulation (e.g., export control or national security laws or regulations); 



(2) As expressly set forth in this contract; or 



(3) If the Contractor receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this contract that contain restrictive markings, the Contractor shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless specifically authorized otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer. 



(e) Unauthorized marking of data. 



(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this contract are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(3) or (g) (4) if included in this clause, and use of the notices is not authorized by this clause, or if the data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this contract, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Contractor, or cancel or ignore the markings. However, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 253d, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings. 



(i) The Contracting Officer will make written inquiry to the Contractor affording the Contractor 60 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings; 



(ii) If the Contractor fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 60-day period (or a longer time approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions. 



(iii) If the Contractor provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer will consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Contractor will be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer will furnish the Contractor a written determination, which determination will become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Contractor files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officers decision. The Government will continue to abide by the markings under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officers determination becoming final (in which instance the Government will thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed. 



(2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder. 



(3) Except to the extent the Governments action occurs as the result of final disposition of the matter by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Contractor is not precluded by paragraph (e) of the clause from bringing a claim, in accordance with the Disputes clause of this contract, that may arise as the result of the Government removing or ignoring authorized markings on data delivered under this contract. 



(f) Omitted or incorrect markings. 



(1) Data delivered to the Government without any restrictive markings shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights. The Government is not liable for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. 



(2) If the unmarked data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Contractor may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer in writing for good cause shown) after delivery of the data, permission to have authorized notices placed on the data at the Contractors expense. The Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Contractor 



(i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied; 



(ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent; 



(iii) Establishes that the proposed notice is authorized; and 



(iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice. 



(3) If data has been marked with an incorrect notice, the Contracting Officer may 



(i) Permit correction of the notice at the Contractors expense if the Contractor identifies the data and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or 



(ii) Correct any incorrect notices. 



(g) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. 



(1) The Contractor may withhold from delivery qualifying limited rights data or restricted computer software that are not data identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause. As a condition to this withholding, the Contractor shall 



(i) Identify the data being withheld; and 



(ii) Furnish form, fit, and function data instead. 



(2) Limited rights data that are formatted as a computer database for delivery to the Government shall be treated as limited rights data and not restricted computer software. 



(3) [Reserved] 



(h) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractors obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government those rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and shall not proceed with the subcontract award without authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. 



(i) Relationship to patents or other rights. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government. 



(End of clause) 

 







SECURITY SCREENING REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS TO SENSITIVE BUT

UNCLASSIFIED SYSTEMS OR INFORMATION (MAR 1998)



(a)	In addition to complying with any functional and technical security requirements set forth in the schedule and elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall request that the Government initiate personnel screening checks and provide signed user nondisclosure agreements, as required by this clause, for each contractor employee requiring staff-like access, i.e., unescorted or unsupervised physical access or electronic access, to the following limited or controlled areas, systems, programs and data:  %%List areas, systems, programs and data.

**7504



(b)	The Contractor shall submit a properly completed set of investigative request processing forms for each such employee in compliance with instructions to be furnished by the Contracting Officer or his/her designated representative. 

(c)	Depending upon the type of investigation necessary, it may take up to several months to complete complex personnel screening investigations.  At the discretion of the Government, background screening may not be required for employees with recent or current favorable Federal Government investigations.  To verify the acceptability of a non-IRS, favorable investigation, the Contractor shall submit the forms or information needed, according to instructions furnished by the Contracting Officer.



(d)	When contractor employee access is necessary prior to completion of personnel screening, each contractor employee requiring access may be considered for escort access. The Contractor shall promptly submit all requests for approval for escort access to the Contracting Officer or his/her designated representative so as not to endanger timely contract performance.



(e)	The Contractor shall ensure that each contractor employee requiring access executes any nondisclosure agreements required by the Government prior to gaining staff-like access.  The Contractor shall provide signed copies of the agreements to the Site Security Officer (SSO) for inclusion in the employee's security file.  The name and location of the SSO shall be provided by the Government after contract award.  Unauthorized access is a violation of law and may be punishable under the provisions of Title 5 U.S.C. 552a, Executive Order 12356; Title 5 U.S.C. 7211 governing disclosures to Congress; Title 10 U.S.C.1034, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military; Title 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(8) as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats; the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents; and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 18, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. Section 783(b)) and other applicable statutes.  



(f)	The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or the Site Security Officer no later than the end of the day of the termination for cause of an authorized employee's access.  The Contractor shall notify the COTR no later than ten days after an authorized employee no longer requires access for any other type of termination.  Verbal notifications shall be confirmed in writing within thirty days. 



[End of clause] 







     (a) Method of payment. 

          (1) All payments by the Government under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT), except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term "EFT" refers to the funds transfer and may also include the payment information transfer. 

          (2) In the event the Government is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either- 

               (i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or 

               (ii) Request the Government to extend the payment due date until such time as the Government can make payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of this clause). 

     (b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the CCR database. 

     (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR part 210. 

     (d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor's EFT information in the CCR database is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the CCR database; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. 

     (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. 

          (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Government used the Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the Government remains responsible for- 

               (i) Making a correct payment; 

               (ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and 

               (iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds. 

          (2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and- 

               (i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Government is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or 

               (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Government shall not make payment, and the provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall apply. 

     (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. 

      (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the CCR database and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to Subpart 32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. 

     (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor's financial agent. 

     (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in the CCR database. 

                                                              (End of clause) 







a) Definitions. "Services," as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or utilized in the performance of services. (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) If the Government performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) If any of the services do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by reperformance, the Government may (1) require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements and (2) reduce the contract price to reflect the reduced value of the services performed. (f) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or to take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the Government may (1) by contract or otherwise, perform the services and charge to the Contractor any cost incurred by the Government that is directly related to the performance of such service or (2) terminate the contract for default. (End of clause) 



Volume

Title

Copies  

Maximum Page Limit

I

Technical Approach

 1

20

II

Past Experience 

1

12

III

Past Performance

1

12, Excluding Questionnaires

IV

        Price

1

12



E-mail: anita.l.proctor@irs.gov



Phone Number:  (240) 613-8301





Agency:

Department of the Treasury

Internal Revenue Service

6009 Oxon Hill Road

Attn:  Anita L. Proctor, 

Anita.l.proctor@irs.gov





CONTRACT NUMBER

COMPANY BEING RATED











