<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSF1449.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSF1449.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>
September 14, 2009


Ladies and Gentlemen:

You are hereby invited to submit a quote in accordance with the requirements of this request for quote (RFQ) Number SSA-RFQ-09-2171 for the
development of an Electronic Health Record (EHR) System and related support services.

This requirement is 100% set-aside for small business and is being conducted under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 12, Acquisition of
Commercial Items and FAR Part 13.5, Test Program for Certain Commercial Items.

Your quote must be submitted via email to Syreeta.Gay@ssa.gov no later than 4:00 p.m. EST on September 18, 2009.  In the subject line, please
indicate the Solicitation No.  SSA-RFQ-09-2171.  In the event that you are unable to email your quote, please contact me.  Requests for any
information concerning this RFQ are to be referred to the attention of the undersigned via email no later than 3:00 p.m. EST September 16, 2009.


All submissions must include all the information requested in Section F of the RFP.  Failure to provide all the requested information may render
your offer non-responsive and ineligible for consideration.


Due to the high risk of virus infection of many types of files, SSA has a security policy in place to block the transmission of certain file
types via e-mail.  This means that any message attachments with the listed filename extensions will be stripped from all e-mail messages
automatically (whether or not the files are infected with a virus).   Attached is the current list of blocked filename extensions.



                                  Sincerely,

                                  /s/
                                  Syreeta Gay
                                  Contract Specialist

                  Current List of Blocked Filename Extensions


|Extension                  |File Type                                                         |
|asx                        |Windows media file, active streaming video                        |
|bat                        |Batch file                                                        |
|chm                        |Compiled HTML Help file                                           |
|cmd                        |Operating System (Microsoft Windows) Command Script               |
|com                        |Microsoft MS-DOS program, executable                              |
|cpl                        |Control Panel extension for Windows                               |
|eml                        |Microsoft Outlook Express Mail Message                            |
|exe                        |Commercial Off The Shelf Program file, executable machine code    |
|gz                         |GNU gzip compressed file - Unix                                   |
|hta                        |HTML program                                                      |
|htm                        |DOC filename extension  for a document with HTML code             |
|html                       |document with HTML code, read by www browsers                     |
|job                        |                                                                  |
|js                         |Jscript file                                                      |
|jse                        |Jscript Encoded Script file                                       |
|lnk                        |Shortcut file                                                     |
|mp3                        |Music File, MPEG Layer III compressed audio file playable using a |
|                           |QuickTime player                                                  |
|mpeg                       |Moving Picture Experts Group format; Movie or Animation File, MPEG|
|                           |encoded file playable using a QuickTime player                    |
|ocx                        |Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) Custom Control, filename       |
|                           |extension                                                         |
|pif                        |Program Information File, Windows â Shortcut to MS-DOS program    |
|reg                        |Registration entries, file extension                              |
|scr                        |Screen saver (Windows); Screen layout in dBASE                    |
|shb                        |Shortcut into a document                                          |
|shs                        |Shell Scrap Object                                                |
|vbe                        |Microsoft Visual Basic Encoded Script                             |
|vbs                        |Microsoft Visual Basic Script                                     |
|wmd                        |Windows media file                                                |
|wmv                        |Windows media video file                                          |
|wmx                        |Windows media file                                                |
|wsf                        |Windows Script file                                               |
|wsh                        |Windows Script Host Settings file                                 |


TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART 1 –     Addenda to Standard Form 1449   3


SECTION A – SCHEDULE OF ITEMS AND PRICE      4


SECTION B – DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES    5


PART II – CONTRACT CLAUSES AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS


SECTION C- ADDENDEUM TO FAR CLAUSE 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS

C-1   SUPPLEMENT TO PARAGRAPHS IN 52.212-4   15

C-2   ADDITIONAL FAR CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   17

C-3   FAR CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT  17

C-4   ADDITIONAL AGENCY SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS    17


SECTION D – CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED
TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS

D-1   FAR 52-212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRES TO
      IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE   ORDERS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009)   38


PART III – CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, ATTACHMENTS

SECTION E – CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND ATTACHMENTS

EXHIBITS
         ▪ Exhibit 1 – National Institute of Health (NIH) Performance System Information……………………………………………………………………44












Part IV -- SOLICITATION PROVISIONS

SECTION F – ADDENDUM TO FAR PROVISION 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS --COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008)

F-1    Revisions to Paragraphs in 52.212-1   45
F-2   Additional FAR Provisions Incorporated by Full Text     48
F-3   Additional Agency Specific Provisions  48




SECTION G – ADDENDUM TO FAR PROVISION 52.212-2, EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

G-1   52.212-2 EVALUATION – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)  49
G-2   Additional Agency-Specific Provisions  53
G-3   Basis for Award  53


SECTION H—FAR PROVISION 52.212-3, OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS—COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009) ………………………54



PART I - ADDENDUM TO STANDARD FORM 1449


In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 12.302 and 12.303, this Part I contains addenda to the Standard Form 1449.  The addenda
provide for the continuation of the schedule and description of the supplies and services to be acquired.






                                                     SECTION A – SCHEDULE OF ITEMS AND PRICE



The Contractor shall provide the services described in the description of services included at Section B,  and in accordance with all the terms
and conditions of this contract for a period of one (1) base year and two (2) option years (if exercised) at the prices listed in section A-1



SECTION A-1 --   PRICE OF SERVICES


The firm-fixed price for services includes all personnel, labor, facilities, materials, supplies, equipment (unless otherwise furnished by the
Government) necessary to perform the services required by the contract. The price is subject to change only as agreed to by the parties based on
changes in the requirement that may impact the price.

Contract Performance shall begin October 1, 2009.


|DESCRIPTION                                                            |QTY       |UNIT OF           |UNIT PRICE             |TOTAL PRICE                  |
|                                                                       |          |ISSUE             |                       |                             |
|A-1.1   BASE YEAR                                                      |          |                  |                       |                             |
|Development of Electronic Health Record (EHR) System                   |1         |EA                |$                      |$                            |
|EHR System Support & Consultative Services                             |12        |MO                |$                      |$                            |
|October 1, 2009 to September 30, 2010                                  |          |                  |                       |                             |
|                                                                       |          |                  |                       |                             |
|A-1.2   OPTION YEAR I                                                  |          |                  |                       |                             |
|EHR System Support & Consultative Services                             |12        |MO                |$                      |$                            |
|October 1, 2010 to September 30, 2011                                  |          |                  |                       |                             |
|                                                                       |          |                  |                       |                             |
|A-1.3   OPTION YEAR II                                                 |          |                  |                       |                             |
|EHR System Support & Consultative Services                             |12        |MO                |$                      |$                            |
|October 1, 2011 to September 30, 2012                                  |          |                  |                       |                             |













                                                 SECTION B – DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES

Section B-1 --STATEMENT OF WORK

The Contractor shall provide all necessary personnel and services needed to perform the work set forth in the following sections.


A.    Background


   The Social Security Administration (SSA), Office of the Medical Director (OMD) develops policy and procedures and has responsibility for
   providing high quality medical programs for employees in thirty Employee Health Centers nationwide.  The OMD is also responsible for providing
   medical leadership for the agency on infectious disease issues, medical emergency preparedness, and consultative advice to management.  The
   SSA Medical Office serves as a health information resource for employees, implements SSA's medical programs and oversees Employee Health
   Services nationwide.  There are six Employee Health Units (EHUs) at Headquarters (Main Complex, Security West, Meadows East, Metro West,
   National Computer Center (NCC), and Woodlawn Office Complex).  Each health unit provides preventative health care guidance/counseling to
   employees and medical care of ill or injured employees, contractors and visitors.


   There are currently a total of thirty Employee Health Centers (EHCs) nationwide; twenty-seven of these are staffed through an interagency
   agreement with Federal Occupational Health (FOH).  Currently, all medical records, logs and statistics are kept on paper.  Thus, there is a
   need to develop an automated system that will track information and gather statistics to ensure agency funds are being utilized in the most
   efficient manner to meet SSA employee health needs.



B.    Objective

   The objective of this task order is to gain an efficient, high quality, Electronic Health Record (EHR) System and related support services.
   The support services will include but not be limited to assisting the SSA project team located in SSA's Central Office in Woodlawn, MD in the
   technical and business process configuration, implementation, operation and maintenance of the EHR.


   The new automated system will be released as a pilot version among the six EHU’s at SSA Headquarters.  If the pilot version is successful the
   system may be implemented by SSA EHC’s nationwide.  National implementation shall not begin until at least one year after contract award.




   C. Scope

   The contractor shall provide the application software, associated licenses, training, hosting of data, technical support and consultation
   services for an EHR system that will allow the OMD to satisfy their mission every day without interruption.



   D. General Requirements

    • All EHR data shall be the property of SSA and will be returned in the manner specified by SSA immediately following a termination of
      contract for any reason.
    • The EHR System shall be hosted on the contractors server at a secure site provided and maintained by the contractor.
    • The EHR data shall be secure at all times and shall be recoverable in the event of a disaster.
    • The Contractor shall not access any SSA personal identification data, programmatic or sensitive data or any SSA automated systems.
    • Upon award, the contractor shall provide SSA with detailed specifications of all hardware (e.g. servers) and software required (e.g.
      database software) to run the system.  The Contractor shall provide SSA with all required EHR product software and will install this
      respective software as necessary.  The costs associated with the acquisition of any other hardware, software and equipment (i.e. servers,
      operating system) required to operate the EHR is the responsibility of the contractor.

   E. Technical Requirements

   1. Electronic Health Record System software – The Contractor shall provide the EHR software, install this software and provide the technical
      requirements to operate the software.  The Contractor shall also provide fixes and upgrades as they are available and SSA decides to
      implement. The contractor shall test and make any necessary software changes that may result from mandatory SSA upgrades (upgraded version
      of Web Browser, Security upgrades, Office upgrades, etc.).  If at any time the system is not functioning, the contractor shall implement
      all available efforts to have systems functioning as soon as possible.  SSA will not be billed or will be reimbursed for all costs
      resulting from any time that the system is not functioning.


      (a) System Requirements - The system shall meet the following requirements for account passwords and access security:


         • The system shall provide a mechanism for System Administrator(s) in OMD to modify accesses at any time.
         • The system shall provide security to ensure users may access only to what they “need to know” and “need to do” to successfully do
           their job as defined by the OMD.
         • The system will require all users to utilize their SSA PIN and password to access the system
      (b) Print-Outs - Once an employee record is in the system, users/nurses shall be able to print any part of an employee’s record. All chart
      fields shall be available as a paper version to be used as a contingency plan if the system is not accessible for any reason.


      (c) Reports - There shall be a set of pre-defined reports that the system’s users and administrators can access at any given time.  Users
      shall be able to export reports to MS Excel.  Users shall have the ability to enter specific date ranges, location, region when running a
      report, if the date range is left blank, the system shall return all of the records.


      The specifications for the reports shall include but not be limited to:

         • The total number of visits to the health unit.
         • The number of individuals visiting the health unit.
         • The total number of individuals visiting the health unit from a certain location with certain body concern (i.e. Annex respiratory
           problems)
         • A count of worker’s compensation claims filed by an individual (i.e. John Doe - # of claims).
         • A count of the number of visit types (emergency, urgent, non-urgent, self-care, lactation, etc.)
         • A search function shall be developed to allow users to query the database, create and customize ad hoc reports.  The users shall have
           access to add specific criteria on their reports.


      (d) Additional Technical Requirements


         • All technical requirements outlined shall have the ability to be turned on/off to users at the discretion of the OMD.
         • System must be certified by the Commission for Healthcare Information technology (CCHIT).
         • System must be 508 compliant.
         • System shall have the ability to remove all advertisement and add SSA logos.
         • All system changes or updates requested by the SSA OMD shall be completed timely and shall automatically update for all users and all
           charts.
         • System shall have the ability for all users to utilize the system concurrently without difficulty.
         • No two users shall be able to access the same chart concurrently.
         • System shall have the ability to interface with voice recognition software.
         • Electronic signature pads shall be provided, functional, and installed for each workstation by the contractor.
         • System shall have the ability to share information electronically, in bidirectional mode, with private physician offices in a secure,
           HIPPA compliant manner.
         • System shall have a Patient Access Portal, allowing patients to easily get information from the Health Center in a secure, HIPAA
           compliant manner. 
         • Contractor shall provide training for staff and provide a responsive help line available during all clinic hours of operation.
         • System shall have the ability to do marketing, health education, or make appointments over the internet or in a kiosk in the employee
           health center. 
         • System shall have the ability to create real time appointment slots that employees or providers can schedule and have access to
           confirm the time of the appointment. 
         • System shall have the ability to set different security access for specified users as indicated by OMD.
         • All EHR data shall be backed up daily and kept in a secure manner by the contractor.
         • System shall have a manual override function to correct appointment time available but shows that the time was manipulated.
         • System shall have the ability to scan and incorporate current paper records and future paper documents obtained from outside
           physicians or consent forms into the EHR.
         • System shall have the ability to print the EHR or a specified section of it.
         • The contractor shall provide and install functional interactive kiosks in the EHC’s
         • System shall have the ability to send specific information to select employees based on conditions.  For example, information on
           blood drives, blood pressure checks, allergy shots, flu shots for the flu season. Employees shall also have the ability to “opt out”
           of receiving future reminders. 
         • System shall have the ability to run reports on how long the employee has been waiting, the utilization time with the nurse, how many
           injuries occurred in the building that were documented in the system, how many employees presented with a certain complaint or
           condition, and weight or blood pressure over a specified number, who was sent home, who was sent to the hospital, why, where, how, or
           any other parameter collected by the system.
         • System shall be able to measure nursing service time based on patient check in and check out time.
         • System shall have the ability to have employees complete health questionnaires on line which can populate reports on population
           health.
         • System shall have a cover sheet that includes allergies, appointments and medical history.
         • System shall a menu of past clinical notes that can be accessed by point and click.
         • System shall have the ability to create custom templates that meet our exact criteria, ability to modify templates at any time, free
           text boxes available on all fields as desired by SSA OMD.
         • System shall have the ability to have pop up alerts such as allergies when opening a record.
         • System shall have the ability to attach any SSA form requested by the OMD, as a pop-up that automatically populates applicable
           fields, and can be completed and printed or e-mailed.
         • System shall have the ability to create algorithms with mandatory questions/fields based on the chief complaint entered.
         • System shall have an electronic signature for providers, which seals the notes.
         • System shall have the ability to make addendums to notes incorporating a system generated time/date stamp.




   2. Electronic Health Record System licenses – The Contractor shall provide the requisite licenses to operate all components of the EHR.  The
      Contractor shall also provide SSA with a systems testing environment.  The testing environment will be a mirror of production used to test
      configuration changes, data imports and report modifications before moved to the production environment.




   3. Support Services – The Contractor shall install, configure, implement and maintain the EHR system in all sites covered by the contract.

     a) User Requirements


      With this application, the SSA OMD shall be able to track employee visits to the health unit.  When an employee visits the EHC, he or she
      shall be able to log into the kiosk system by entering their SSA PIN and password.


      The first time the employee logs onto the system, he or she should be prompted to enter personal information such as first name, last name,
      DOB, supervisor, work location, position, and status (employee, contractor, and visitor) as well as allergies and medical history.  Future
      checks will result in the personal information being automatically populated and allowing for changes as needed.


      If a patient arrives as an emergency or is treated at the scene without coming into the health unit, the nurse will have the ability to
      complete the login page for the patient.  The record will identify the person who completed the login page each time it is completed.


      Once the employee has entered his/her information, a “Sign-In Online List” shall be created for the nurse; this list will display the
      employee’s name and the time they checked-in.  The list will be ordered by check-in time. In order for the nurse to have access to the
      list, which is part of the system, he/she will need to log-in the EHR system. The nurse will be able to click on each name on the list and
      view the employee’s personal information; the nurse will then enter information about the employee’s visit.  From the list she shall have
      the ability to mark an employee as seen, allowing the health unit to manage the employee visits.


      The nurses in the six headquarters units shall have access to all the patient/visit records in the different health units in headquarters.
      For the nationwide implementation, the nurses in the regions will have access to the records that belong to the specific region to which
      he/she is assigned.






     b) Administrator Role


      The System Administrator(s) will be identified by OMD and shall be able to retrieve all of the medical records nationwide and run all
      reports.  Access to the application will be role-based.  The administrators of the application shall have access to all the data and all
      the functions in the system and shall have the ability to run all reports.




   4. Data Requirements - The EHR shall capture the following data elements for each employee.  This list may be expanded or changed by the OMD
      at any time and the contractor shall accommodate these changes within a predetermined and reasonable amount of time.   Each element shall
      be marked as:
      P – Pre-filled; M - Mandatory; O – Optional; G - Systems generated; or S - Sensitive


     a) Employee Data Elements


    • Last Name                         M
    • First Name                              M
    • Middle Initial                          O
    • Full SSN (only the last 4 will be displayed) M
    • Date of Birth                           M
    • Building                                M
    • Work Location                           M
    • Employee Status                         M
         o Employee
         o Contractor
         o Visitor


     b)  Nurse Data Elements


    • First Name                              M
    • Last Name                         M
    • Middle Initial                          O
    • Health Unit                       M



     c) Case Data Elements

    • Date of Visit                           M S  P (System Generated)
    • Time-In                                 M S
    • Time-Out                                M
    • Health Unit (drop down menu)                 M
    • Reason for Visit (more than 1 can be selected)     M
         o Allergy Program
         o Assessment and Treatment of injury/illness
         o Blood Pressure Check
         o Flu-Program
         o Follow-up
         o Health Counseling
         o International Travel
         o Lactation Support
         o Self-Care program
         o Vaccinations
         o Other (free text box)

    • Type of Case                            M
         o Emergency at site
         o Urgent at building site
         o Non-urgent
         o Emergency at clinic
         o Urgent at clinic


    • Worker’s Compensation Case              M
         o Yes
         o No (default)


    • Service Performed                            M
      (These values can be changed at any time per OMD)
         o Allergy Shot
    o Assessment and Evaluation
    o Audiometry
    o Body Temperature
    o BP Screening
    o Cholesterol Finger Stick Screening
    o Cold/Heat Application
    o Colon Cancer Screening
    o Dressing application/change
    o Emergency Response
    o Eye or Ear Irrigation
    o Glucose screening finger stick
    o Health Education/Counseling
    o Health Risk Appraisal
    o Individual Health Counseling
    o Vaccine Administration - Dropdown with list of vaccines,
                       (Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis A and B, Polio, Tdap, Tetanus/Diphtheria, Typhoid, Other (with ability to write in))
         o Removal of Foreign Body
         o Tuberculosis Skin Test
         o Vision Screen
         o Vital Signs
         o Wound Care
         o Weight Measurement


    • Nurse’s Recommendations                      M
         o Return to Work
         o Private Medical Provider
         o Urgent Care Facility
         o Emergency Room

    • Followed Medical Advice
         o Yes (default)
         o No
                    i. 404 - Refusal to follow Medical Advice form pops up to be printed, signed by employee and sent to be scanned into record,
                       or electronic signature pad allows electronic 404 to be signed.


                    ii.      Employee Actions:
                    1. Returned to Work
                    2. Home
                    3. Private Medical Provider
                    4. Urgent Care
                    5. ER
                    6. Unknown

    • Transportation                          M
         o Ambulatory
         o Family
         o EMS
         o Other


    • Environmental Health/Safety Concern          M
         o Yes
                    i. Environmental form to pop up, be completed, and emailed as indicated by OMD.
         o No (default)

    • Nurse’s Notes                           M
         o Pulse
         o Blood Pressure
         o Oxygen Saturation
         o Respirations
         o Temperature
         o Notes



F.    Contractor Services & Training

   The contractor shall provide the following training for system use:


         o 2 Hour Overview of System for Pilot Users
         o 1 Day Online training for Appointment Scheduling & Implementation (may be broken into smaller intervals)
         o 1 Day Onsite Workflow analysis and implementation planning meeting
         o 2 hour Internet sessions training for each user
         o 4 Hours Recall Setup and Implementation via Internet
         o 1 Day Healthwatcher and Patient education Setup Training via Internet
         o 2 Days GO Live on-site Support
         o 1 Day Administration Training for Templating, WordMerge and Reporting Training
         o 1 Day Post Go Live Internet review
         o Project Management



G.    Post Award Meeting


   Within 7 business days after award of the contract, the Contractor and appropriate staff shall attend a post award meeting to discuss and
   ensure mutual understanding relative to the administration of the contract.  The Contractor will not be separately reimbursed for any travel
   expenses related to attending this meeting.  It is not anticipated that meetings other than the post award meeting will be held.  However,
   meetings may be scheduled as needed.  The Contractor will not be separately reimbursed for attendance at such meetings.


H.    Project Management

   The Contractor shall provide a Project Manager (PM) to conduct overall management coordination and be the central point of contact for overall
   performance of work under the contract.  The Contractor shall also designate an alternate PM to act during the PM’s absence.  The PM or
   designated alternate shall ensure that required supervision of Contractor personnel is provided whenever work is being performed.


   SSA anticipates that the PM will serve as the Contractor’s principal point of contact with the Contracting Office (CO) and the Contracting
   Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) or his/her authorized representative, regarding all contract management matters, providing overall
   supervision and direction of all Contractor activities and personnel, ensuring the successful and timely performance of all contract tasks.




I.    Reporting Requirements

   During the course of the contract, the Contractor Project Manger shall provide the reports identified below in electronic format to SSA.  All
   reports must be in Microsoft Office formats.


      1.   Monthly Status Report


      The monthly status report must arrive no later than ten (10) business days after the end of the month.  The monthly status report should
      include at a minimum a summary review of the project schedule and include the following:

            o summary of past month's accomplishments
            o progress on current activities
            o open issues

     2. Weekly Project Reports


      The weekly project reports must arrive no later than one (1) business day prior to the weekly status call and at a minimum include:


            o detailed status on all open issues (e.g., being researched, fixed or tested)

     3. Weekly Status Calls


            o review the status of each open item
            o analysis of impact on overall progress of the project



PART II -   CONTRACT CLAUSES AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS

SECTION C - ADDENDUM TO FAR CLAUSE 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS-COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009)

In accordance with FAR 12.301 (a)(3) and 12.302, the provision at 52.212-4 is hereby incorporated by reference via Block 27 of the Standard Form
1449 and tailored by this addendum as follows:

Section C-1 --   Supplement to Paragraphs in 52.212-4


In accordance with FAR 12.301(a)(3), FAR clause 52.212-4(g) Invoice is supplemented as follows:


INVOICE SUBMISSION AND PAYMENT RELATED INFORMATION

You may submit your invoice, electronically via email, by regular mail, or by hand carrying it to the Office of Finance at the addresses below.
Your invoice must include all of the elements of a proper invoice as defined in the invoice or payment clause used in this award as well as any
other information required below or in the contract.

Payment will be made to the awarded Contractors in three (3) parts.  The first payment will be made after SSA approval of the Sample CCD
submitted by the contractor, and verification that the contractor's EHR application is properly certified.  The second payment will be made
after SSA approval of Verification CCDs. The third payment will be made after SSA approval of up to 5% of expected annual volume Production CCDs
that comply with the specifications outlined in the SOW.   (Refer to Section 4.2 of the Statement of Work.) Evidence of the relevant SSA
approval must be submitted with each invoice.

SENDING THE INVOICE ELECTRONICALLY:

Submit your invoice either as an attachment to an email message, or within the message itself, to:   OFPO.OF.DAP.INVOICES@ssa.gov.

FOR INVOICES NOT SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY:

Submit an original and three (3) copies of the invoice to:

If sent by mail:

Social Security Administration
Office of Finance
Post Office Box 47
Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047

If Hand Carried:

Social Security Administration
Office of Finance
Customer Service Help Desk
2-B-4 East Low Rise Building
6401 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, Maryland 21235-0047

The telephone number of the customer service help desk is (410) 965-0607.

• Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS):

In order to assist the government in making timely payments, please include your TIN, your DUNS number, and the Order Number on each invoice.

• Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Information and Remittance Information:

The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.
In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the CCR database.

Remittance information associated with EFT payments is now available via the Payment Advice Internet Delivery (PAID) System on the Department of
Treasury's Internet site at http://fms.treas.gov/paid/index.asp.  This site provides an explanation of the system, how it works, security and
access information, a user demonstration, and registration information.  There is no charge to use the PAID system.

You may also direct payment inquiries to SSA's Office of Finance by using its Financial Interactive Voice Response System (FIVR).  FIVR is an
automated self-service telephone system available 24 hours a day that allows direct electronic access to administrative payment information
using the telephone keypad.  You can access FIVR by calling (410) 965-0607.  The services available through FIVR will be available through a
Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) Line at 410-597-1395.  Customer Service Representatives will be available to answer Contractor
payment inquiries Monday - Friday, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time.

You may also address any payment inquiries to SSA’s Office of Finance by sending an email to payment.inquiries@ssa.gov , or visiting its
internet site at http://www.ssa.gov/vendor/contact.htm .  You can also access the PAID system through a link on this site.

Section C-2 --   Additional FAR Clauses Incorporated By Reference


FAR 52.252-2   CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:
http://www.arnet.gov/far/.


           52.203-3    Gratuities (Apr 1984)

           52.233-1    Disputes (July 2002)


           52.217-5    Evaluation of Options (JUL 1990)



Section C-3 -- FAR Clauses Incorporated By Full Text




C-3.1       52.217-8 – Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999)



      The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates
      may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be
      exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise
      the option by written notice to the Contractor at any time during the contract performance period.





Section C-4 – Additional Agency Specific Terms and Conditions


The following agency-specific terms and conditions are hereby incorporated in full text as follows.

C-4.1            Security Clearance Requirements

All personnel working under the authority of this contract must have a current Level 5 – Moderate Risk clearance approved by SSA.  Clearances
granted by agencies other than SSA will be considered.

In the event any contractor personnel does not have a current, SSA accepted security clearance at the time of award of the order, those
individuals must undergo an appropriate Background Check in accordance with SSA’s System Security Handbook and Suitability Procedures and the
requirements of Section E-3, Security and Suitability Requirements Clause, below shall apply.


C-4.2       Security Requirements


52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sep 2007)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland
Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24, and Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201.

(b) The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a
Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system.



C-4.3       Security and Suitability Requirements Clause (October 2008)

   a. ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
      • Access to a facility, site, system or information means physical access to any Social Security Administration (SSA) facility or site,
        logical access to any of SSA’s information systems, or access to programmatic or sensitive information.


      • CO - Contracting Officer


      • CPSPM – Center for Personnel Security and Project Management


      • COTR – Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

      • PIV –    Personal Identity Verification




   b. Purpose 
      This clause provides information regarding the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) policies and procedures regarding the conduct of
      background investigations.  The purpose of these investigations is to determine the suitability of contractor employees needing access to
      an SSA facility, site, system, or information.  The clause also describes the process to obtain a PIV credential to gain access.  The
      successful contractor will be required to follow the procedures set forth in this clause commencing at the time of award.


      SSA requires all contractor employees to visit an SSA facility to obtain a credential after SSA has conducted and favorably adjudicated a
      background investigation.  The COTR will inform the contractor of the location and time to obtain a credential.


      This clause must be included in all subcontracts awarded by the contractor wherein subcontractor employees will have access to a facility,
      site, system, or information.

   c. Authorities
         • Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12)


         • Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-05-24


         • The Crime Control Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, subtitle E, as amended by Public Law 102-190 (for childcare center security
           requirements)


         • Executive Orders 10450 and 12968 and Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 731, 732 and 736 (for positions assigned a
           “National Security” designation)


   d. Background Investigation and Adjudication Process
      The background investigation and adjudication processes are compliant with 5 CFR 731.

   e. Required Forms
      All contractor employees who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit to SSA the following
      forms.  Some of the forms are available electronically (see website addresses below):

         • 2 Forms FD-258, Applicant Fingerprint Chart (The CO will provide the FD-258 forms at the time of the contract award.)
           NOTE: The contractor will be responsible for obtaining and providing acceptable fingerprints for use by SSA.  Regardless of the
           method used to fingerprint employees (electronic capture or ink) the only acceptable fingerprint card is the FD-258.


         • Optional Form 306, Declaration for Federal Employment
                     http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/of.asp

         • Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)  Authorization Form
                    http://www.opm.gov/extra/investigate/fin-1998/fin9802.asp


         • If the employee is not a U.S. Citizen, the employee must provide SSA with a legible photocopy of his or her work authorization permit
           and social security card.


        In addition to the forms above, every employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit
        ONE of the following forms:

         • Standard Form (SF) 85 for risk level 1 (Public Trust, Low Risk/Non-Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 85P for sensitivity levels 5 or 6  (Public Trust, Moderate or High Risk),  http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 86 for sensitivity levels 2,  3 or  4  (National Security, Non-Critical, Critical –Sensitive or Special
           Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp

      The risk designation associated with the work that the particular individual will be performing will determine which form the individual
      must complete.  For this contract, the following risk designation(s) apply:




      Labor Category                                                          Risk Designation
      All Employees                                 5 - Moderate Risk


   f. Forms Completion 
      The contractor must ensure that all forms are fully completed and signed prior to submission to SSA.  The contractor must ensure that the
      fingerprint charts and all forms are printed legibly or typed in black ink and all signatures are in black ink.  The contractor must also
      ensure there are no “breaks” in residences or employment.  SSA requires complete addresses, including zip codes and phone numbers.


   g. Forms Submission
      The contractor shall submit a cover sheet, including the contract number, name, and social security number of all contract employees for
      whom they are requesting a suitability determination, along with completed forms and one FD-258 fingerprint chart to:


      SSA
      CPSPM Security and Suitability Team
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


      Simultaneously, the contractor must submit a copy of the cover sheet to the COTR.


      The contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to the date work is to begin.  For new contract employees who will need
      access to an SSA facility, site, information, or system, the contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to beginning work
      under the contract.


   h. Preliminary Suitability Determination
      A Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint check will be used as part of the basis for making a preliminary suitability determination.
      If SSA makes a favorable preliminary suitability determination, the individual may perform under the contract pending SSA’s final
      suitability determination.  CPSPM will notify contractors, with carbon copy (cc) notifications sent to both the COTR and CO, of the results
      of these determinations.


      SSA requires each contractor employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information to present two forms of
      identification after the contractor employee receives notification of a preliminary suitability determination but prior to beginning work
      under the contract.  In order for SSA to continue the background investigation process and enroll the contractor employee in the PIV
      credentialing process, at least one of the forms of identification must be a Government-issued photo ID (please see Employment Eligibility
      Verification, I-9, for acceptable forms of ID).


   i. Final Suitability Determination
      Final suitability determinations are made in approximately 45-90 business days after submittal of the completed forms to CPSPM.  If CPSPM
      determines that any employee is unsuitable, the COTR, CO, and contractor will be notified and SSA will revoke the employee’s physical and
      logical access.  The contractor must confirm receipt of the revocation within one business day.


      A contractor is not entitled to an equitable adjustment of the contract as a result of SSA making an unfavorable suitability determination
      on contractor employees.  Additionally, if SSA determines that the number or percentage of unfavorable determinations make successful
      contract performance unlikely, SSA may terminate the contract for cause or default.

   j. Exceptions
      The COTR may request an exception to the normal background investigation process for emergency situations when access to a facility or site
      is needed, but where access to information systems or programmatic information is not required.  This request must be directed to CPSPM.
      COTRs may request an exception by sending an email to dchr.ope.hspd12appeals@ssa.gov.  If CPSPM grants temporary access, that temporary
      access will apply only for the period specified by CPSPM and only for the specific contract employee(s) identified by the COTR.  CPSPM
      expects that it will rarely grant exceptions.

   k. Contractor Notification to Government
      The contractor shall notify the COTR (who will notify CPSPM and the CO) within one business day if an employee is arrested or charged with
      a crime during the term of this contract, or if there is any other change in the employee’s status (e.g., the employee leaves the company;
      the employee no longer works under the contract; the employee’s alien status changes) that could impact the suitability determination for
      that individual.  The contractor must provide in that notification as much detail as possible, including, but not limited to:  employee
      name(s), contract number, the type of charge(s), if applicable, the court date, and, if available, the disposition of the charge(s).



   l. Government Control
      The Government has full control over and may grant, deny, or withhold access to a facility, site, system, or information and may require
      the COTR and contractor to remove personnel from performing under the contract for reasons related to conduct even after the individual has
      been found suitable to work on the contract (see paragraph n., below).

   m. Appeals Process for Unsuitable Determinations
      The contractor must notify the employee of any unsuitable determinations as soon as possible after receipt of such a determination.  If the
      employee would like clarification or wish to appeal an unsuitable determination, his/her request must be in writing and submitted within 30
      days of the date of the unsuitable determination.  The request can be emailed to SSA at
      dchr.ope.hspd 12 appeals@ssa.gov, or mailed to:

      Social Security Administration
      Attn:  CPSPM Suitability Program Officer
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


   n. Removal From Duty

      SSA may request that the contractor immediately remove any contractor employee(s) from working under the contract based on conduct that
      occurs after a pre-screening approval or favorable suitability determination.  The contractor must comply with these requests.  The
      Government's determination may be made based on, but not limited to, incidents involving the misconduct or delinquency as set forth below:



       i. Violation of the Rules and Regulations Governing Public Buildings and Grounds, 41 Code of Federal Regulations 101-20.3.  This includes
          any local badging requirements.

      ii. Neglect of duty, including sleeping while on duty, unreasonable delays or failure to carry out assigned tasks; conducting personal
          affairs while on duty; and refusing to cooperate in upholding the integrity of SSA's security program.

     iii. Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction of any official documents or records, or concealment of
          material facts by willful omissions from official documents or records.

      iv. Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation by words or actions, or fighting.  Also,
          participating in disruptive activities, which interfere with the normal and efficient operations of the Government.

       v. Theft, vandalism, or any other criminal actions.

      vi. Selling, consuming, possession of, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or substances which produce similar effects.

     vii. Improper use of official authority or credentials.

    viii. Unauthorized use of communications equipment or Government property.

      ix. Misuse of weapon(s) or tools used in the performance of this contract.

       x. Unauthorized access to areas not required for the performance of the contract.

      xi. Unauthorized access to employees' personal property.

     xii. Violation of security procedures or regulations.

    xiii. Prior determination by SSA or other Federal agency that a contractor's employee was unsuitable.

     xiv. Unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, agency programmatic or sensitive information, or IRS Tax Return information.

      xv. Unauthorized access to an agency Automated Information System.

     xvi. Unauthorized access of information for personal gain (including, but not limited to, monetary gain), or with malicious intent.

    xvii. Not providing for the confidentiality of and protection from disclosure of information entrusted to them.  Contractor personnel are
          considered the same as Federal employees for the purposes of applying certain provisions of:

           The Privacy Act of 1974;


           The Tax Reform Act of 1976 and the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997;


           SSA regulation 1;


           The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986; and


           Section 1106 of the Social Security Act.









C-4.4 Protection of Confidential Information (DEC 2008)


(a)  Confidential information, as used in this clause, means information or data, or copies or extracts of information or data, that is:  (1)
provided by the SSA to the Contractor for, or otherwise obtained by the Contractor in, the performance of this contract; and (2) of a personal
nature about an individual, such as name, home address, and social security number, or proprietary information or data submitted by or
pertaining to an institution or organization, such as employee pay scales and indirect cost rates.

(b)  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information or categories
of information that the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which are confidential.
Similarly, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during
the performance of the contract.  The confidential information will be used only for purposes delineated in the contract; any other use of the
confidential information will require the Contracting Officer’s express written authorization.  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor will
settle any disagreements regarding the identification pursuant to the "Disputes" clause.

(c)  The Contractor shall restrict access to all confidential information to the minimum number of employees and officials who need it to
perform the contract.  Employees and officials who need access to confidential information for performance of the contract will be determined in
conference between SSA's Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative, and the responsible Contractor official.  Upon
request, the Contractor will provide SSA with a list of “authorized personnel,” that is, all persons who have or will have access to
confidential information covered by this clause.

(d)  The Contractor shall process all confidential information under the immediate supervision and control of authorized personnel in a manner
that will:  protect the confidentiality of the records; prevent the unauthorized use of confidential information; and prevent access to the
records by unauthorized persons.

(e)  The Contractor shall inform all authorized personnel with access to confidential information of the confidential nature of the information
and the administrative, technical and physical safeguards required to protect the information from improper disclosure.  All confidential
information shall, at all times, be stored in an area that is physically safe from unauthorized access.  See paragraph (f) below regarding the
minimum standards which the safeguards must meet.

(f)   Whenever the Contractor is storing, viewing, transmitting, or otherwise handling confidential information, the Contractor shall comply
with the applicable standards for security controls that are established in the Federal Information Security and Management Act (FISMA).  (These
standards include those set by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) via the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)
publications and NIST Special Publications, particularly FIPS 199, FIPS 200, and NIST Special Publications - 800 series.)  The applicable
standards for security controls related to health care information technology systems are covered by the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).  The standards for HIPAA are detailed in NIST Special Publication 800-66.

(g)  If the Contractor, in the performance of the contract, uses any information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and/or
section 1106 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1306, the Contractor must follow the rules and procedures governing proper use and disclosure
set forth in the Privacy Act, section 1106 of the Social Security Act, and the Commissioner's regulations at 20 C.F.R. Part 401 with respect to
that information.

For knowingly disclosing information in violation of the Privacy Act, the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal
penalties as set forth in 5 U.S.C. Section 552(i)(1) to the same extent as employees of SSA.  For knowingly disclosing confidential information
as described in section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306), the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to the criminal
penalties as set forth in that provision.

(h)  The Contractor shall assure that each Contractor employee with access to confidential information is made aware of the prescribed rules of
conduct, and the criminal penalties for violations of the Privacy Act and/or the Social Security Act.

(i)  Whenever the Contractor is uncertain how to handle properly any material under the contract, the Contractor must obtain written
instructions from the Contracting Officer addressing this question.  If the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act and/or section
1106 of the Social Security Act or is otherwise confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor must obtain a
written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication.  Contracting Officer
instructions and determinations will reflect the result of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

(j)   Performance of this contract may involve access to tax return information as defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 6103(b) of the Internal Revenue
Code (IRC).  All such information shall be confidential and may not be disclosed without the written permission of the SSA Contracting Officer.
For willfully disclosing confidential tax return information in violation of the IRC, the Contractor and Contractor employees may be subject to
the criminal penalties set forth in 26 U.S.C. Section 7213.

(k)  The Government reserves the right to conduct on-site visits to review the Contractor's documentation and in-house procedures for protection
of and security arrangements for confidential information and adherence to the terms of this clause.

(l)  The Contractor must include this clause in all resulting subcontracts whenever there is any indication that the subcontractor(s), engaged
by the Contractor, and their employees or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees might have access to SSA's confidential information.

(m)  The Contractor must assure that its subcontractor(s) and their employees or any successor subcontractor(s) and their employees with access
to SSA confidential information are made aware of the prescribed rules of conduct.  For knowingly disclosing SSA's confidential information, any
subcontractor(s) and their employees or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees may be subject to criminal penalties as described in
section 1106 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306) and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).


C-4.5       Protecting and Reporting the Loss of Personally Identifiable Information:  Responsibilities Concerning Individual Employees (DEC
           2008)

1. Definitions

      The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:

      “Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).

      “Employee(s)” means an individual(s) employed, including, for the purposes of this clause, management officials, by either the Contractor
or subcontractor that are working under this contract.


      “Handling PII” means having access, either currently or in the future, to personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in this
clause.


      “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” means that, while the Contractor/employee is in possession of PII, the PII has become
physically missing (e.g., it has been stolen) or has been otherwise breached so that persons other than authorized users, and for other than an
authorized purpose, have access or potential access to the PII, regardless of the form (e.g., electronic or physical) in which it was stored.
Indications of lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII include missing equipment (e.g., laptops and removable storage devices such as
USB flash or “thumb” drives, CDs, DVDs, etc.) and/or paper documents potentially containing PII, as well as actions where PII was emailed in
violation of the terms contained in Section 2.(d), Emailing PII, below.


      “Personally Identifiable Information” (PII):  SSA follows the definition of PII provided by the Office of Management and Budget in OMB
Memorandum OMB M-07-16:  “The term ‘personally identifiable information’ refers to any information which can be used to distinguish or trace an
individual's identity, such as their name, Social Security number, biometric records, etc. alone, or when combined with other personal or
identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.”
Other examples of PII may include, but are not limited to:  Social Security benefit data, official State or government issued driver's license
or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number, home address, and
medical information.  Within this clause, “PII” shall specifically mean PII as defined above which:  (1) SSA has a primary responsibility for
and/or interest in protecting; and (2) is made available or becomes accessible to the Contractor and/or any subcontractor, including their
respective employees, as a result of performing under this contract (e.g., under the contract, SSA directly furnishes PII to the
Contractor/subcontractor, or the Contractor/subcontractor, in order to perform its duties under the contract, collects PII from outside sources,
such as in a public survey).


      “Secure Area” or “Secure Duty Station” means, for the purpose of this clause, either of the following, unless SSA expressly states
otherwise on a case-by-case basis:  (1) an employee’s official place of work that is in the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s established business
office in a commercial setting, OR (2) a location within SSA or other Federal- or State-controlled premises.  A person’s private home, even if
it is used regularly as a “home office” (including that of a Contractor or subcontractor management official), shall not be considered a secure
area or duty station.


2.  Employee Responsibility in Safeguarding PII

      The Contractor shall establish, maintain, and follow its own policy and procedures to protect PII, including those for reporting lost or
compromised, or potentially lost or compromised, PII (see Section 4. (a), below).  The Contractor shall inform its employees handling PII of
their individual responsibility to safeguard it.  In addition, the Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to:
(1) educate employees on the proper procedures designed to protect PII, as described below and as otherwise approved by the Agency; and (2)
enforce their compliance with the policy and procedures prescribed as follows:

      (a)  General.  Employees shall properly safeguard PII from loss, theft, or inadvertent disclosure.  Employees are responsible for
safeguarding this information at all times, regardless of whether or not the employee is at his or her regular duty station.   Examples of
proper safeguarding include, but are not limited to:  maintaining the confidentiality of each employee’s individual password (by not sharing the
password with any other individual or entity and not writing it down); verifying the identity of individuals before disclosing information to
them; preventing others in the area from viewing PII on one's computer screen; consistently locking or logging off one's workstation when one is
away; and ensuring that PII is appropriately returned or, upon receiving SSA’s approval, destroyed when no longer needed.

      (b)  Transporting PII Outside a Secure Area/Secure Duty Station.  Note:  The term “transporting” used here does not include shipping by a
common or contract carrier, as defined in FAR 47.001, or by the U.S. Post Office.

      (1) Employees shall make every reasonable effort to safeguard equipment, files, or documents containing PII when transporting information
from a secure area/secure duty station.  Employees must ensure that the laptops and other electronic devices/media being used to transport PII
are encrypted and password protected.  The Contractor shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that the encryption and password protection
are in accordance with any SSA-prescribed standards or policies which shall be communicated separately from this clause.  Employees must use
reasonable protection measures when transporting PII, e.g., storing files in a locked briefcase, not leaving files and/or equipment in plain
view.
      (2)  Employees transporting PII, including transporting PII duplications, such as electronic copies and photocopies, from their secure duty
station or an otherwise secured area to an unsecured area shall obtain prior approval in accordance with the Contractor’s established policy.
The Contractor shall provide employees with contact information and instructions based on the Contractor’s security/PII loss incident policy and
procedures. (NOTE:  Agency-prescribed contact information and instructions for reporting lost or possibly lost PII are discussed in Section 3.
below.)
      (3)  Tracking files.
      Unless the PII is being transported for disposal pursuant to the contract, (see (c) below), the Contractor shall, within reason, take
appropriate and necessary action to ensure that the file(s) or document(s) being physically transported or transmitted electronically outside
the secure area/secure duty station are tracked through a log:  they must be logged out prior to transport as well as logged back in upon
return.  The Contractor can establish any mechanism for tracking as long as the process, at a minimum, provides for the following information to
be logged:
            • first and last name of the employee taking/returning the material;
            • the name of the file or document containing PII that he/she intends to transport from the office;
            • all the forms or media in which the PII was transported (e.g., electronic, such as laptop, thumb drive, CD—be as specific as
              possible; paper, such as paper file folders or printouts);
            • the reason he/she intends to transport the file or document containing PII;
            • the date he/she transported the file or document containing PII from the secure duty station; and
            • the date he/she returned the file or document containing PII to the secure duty station.
      Materials must be returned or documented as destroyed within 90 days of removal from the office or have Contractor supervisory approval for
being held longer.


      The log must be maintained in a secure manner.  Upon request by the Agency, the Contractor shall provide the information from the log in a
format (e.g., electronic or paper) that can be readily accessed by the Agency.
       (c)  Employee Disposal of PII.  The marked statement below applies to this contract:


      [    ] This contract entails employee disposal of PII.  Employees shall follow the procedures described in [Contracting Officer:   Fill in
reference to appropriate section, paragraph, article, etc., of the contract as applicable.  Page numbers are optional.]


       [X] This contract does not entail employee disposal of PII.  The Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to
ensure that the procedures detailed in (3) above pertaining to the logging of PII that is transported outside a secure area/from their secure
duty station are followed.

      (d) Emailing PII.  The Contractor’s corporate or organizational email system is deemed not to be secure.  Therefore, the Contractor shall
put policies and procedures in place to ensure that its employees email PII using only the following procedures in (1)-(2), below:


      (1)  Sending from an SSA email address.  If employees have been given access to the SSA email system, they may use it to send email
messages containing PII in the body or in an unencrypted attachment but only to other SSA email addresses (which contain the “name @ssa.gov”
format) or to email addresses belonging to an SSA-certified email system. Email directed to any other address(es) may contain PII only if the
PII is entirely contained in an encrypted attachment.


(2)  Sending from a non-SSA email system.  If employees are using the Contractor’s own or any other non-SSA email system (e.g., Yahoo!, Gmail),
they may send email messages transmitting PII only if the PII is entirely contained in an encrypted attachment; none of the PII may be in the
body of the email itself or in an unencrypted attachment.  When emailing from such systems, this procedure applies when emailing PII to any
email address, including but not limited to, an SSA email system address.  Unless specifically noted otherwise, the Contractor and its employees
are expected to conduct business operations under this contract using the Contractor’s own email system, i.e., in accordance with the foregoing
rules for transmitting PII.

3.  Agency-Prescribed Procedures for Reporting Lost, Compromised, or Potentially Compromised PII.

      “Lost, compromised, or potentially compromised PII” is defined in Section 1, above.  The reporting requirement established in this section
is for reporting all incidents involving PII, with no distinction between suspected and confirmed breaches.

      SSA has its own reporting requirements for PII that is lost, compromised, or potentially compromised.  The purpose of this section is to
ensure that these requirements are met and that incident information is shared appropriately.

      (a)  Contractor Responsibility.   In addition to establishing and implementing its own internal procedures referenced in Section 2., above,
the Contractor is responsible for taking reasonable actions to implement Agency-prescribed procedures described in (c) below for reporting lost,
compromised, or potentially compromised PII.  These include educating employees handling PII about these procedures and otherwise taking
appropriate and necessary steps to enforce their compliance in carrying them out.


      (b)  Potential Need for Immediate, Direct Reporting by the Employee.  SSA recognizes that Contractor employees will likely make the initial
discovery of a PII security breach.  When an employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost or compromised, he/she is required to
follow the Contractor’s established security/PII loss incident reporting process (see Section 4. (a) below).  The Contractor’s reporting
process, along with SSA’s (see Section 3 (c) below), shall require the Contractor, and not necessarily the employee, in such circumstances to
notify SSA of the incident.  However, the Contractor shall inform each employee handling or potentially handling PII that he/she must be
prepared to directly notify outside authorities immediately as described in (c)(4) below, if, shortly following the incident or discovery of the
incident, he/she finds it evident that neither an appropriate Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be reached.   The Contractor should
emphasize to the employee that timeliness in reporting the incident is critical.


      (c)  Procedures.


      (1)  When an employee becomes aware or suspects that PII has been lost, compromised, or potentially compromised (see 1. Definitions,
above), the Contractor, in accordance with its incident reporting process, shall provide immediate notification of the incident to the primary
SSA contact.  If the primary SSA contact is not readily available, the Contractor shall immediately notify one of two SSA alternates, if names
of alternates have been provided.  (**See Attachment A for the identity of the designated primary and alternate SSA contacts.**)  The Contractor
shall act to ensure that each employee, prior to commencing work on the contract, has been given information as to who the primary and alternate
SSA contacts are and how to contact them.  In addition, the Contractor shall act to ensure that each employee promptly receives any updates on
such information as they are made available.   Whenever the employee removes PII from a secure area/secure duty station, he/she must comply with
the Contractor's security policies, including having on hand the current contact information for the primary SSA contact and the two alternates.


      (2)  The Contractor shall provide the primary SSA contact or the alternate, as applicable, updates on the status of the reported PII loss
or compromise as they become available but shall not delay the initial report.


      (3)  The Contractor shall provide complete and accurate information about the details of the possible PII loss to assist the SSA
contact/alternate, including the following information:

           I.     Contact information;
           II.    A description of the loss, compromise, or potential compromise (i.e., nature of loss/compromise/potential compromise, scope,
            number of files or records, type of equipment or media, etc.) including the approximate time and location of the loss;
           III.   A description of safeguards used, where applicable (e.g., locked briefcase, redacted personal information, password protection,
            encryption, etc.);
           IV.    An identification of SSA components (organizational divisions or subdivisions) contacted, involved, or affected;
           V.     Whether the Contractor or its employee has contacted or been contacted by any external organizations (i.e., other agencies, law
            enforcement, press, etc.);
           VI.    Whether the Contractor or its employee has filed any other reports (i.e., Federal Protective Service, local police, and SSA
            reports); and
           VII.  Any other pertinent information

      The Contractor shall use the worksheet (or a copy thereof) following this clause to quickly gather and organize information about the
incident.


      (4)  There may be rare instances outside of business hours when the Contractor is unable to reach either the primary SSA contact or any of
the alternates immediately.  In such a situation, the Contractor shall immediately call SSA’s Network Customer Service Center (NCSC) at 410-965-
7777 or toll free at 1-888-772-6111 to file the initial report directly, providing the information in (c)(3) above and completing the attached
worksheet to the best of its ability.  Overall, during this time, the Contractor shall cooperate as necessary with the NCSC or any of the other
external organizations described in (c)(3) above.

      The Contractor shall document the call with the CAPRS (Change, Asset, and Problem Reporting System) number which the NCSC will assign.
The Contractor shall provide the CAPRS number to the primary SSA manager, or, if unavailable, one of the alternates to this manager as described
above.

      If an employee initially detects the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII and finds it evident that neither an appropriate
Contractor nor SSA manager/contact can be promptly reached, the employee shall undertake the foregoing actions prescribed to the Contractor in
this part (i.e., immediately call the NCSC, document the CAPRS number assigned to the call, etc.).  (Reference Section 3.(b) above.)


      (5)  The Contractor and its employee(s) shall limit disclosure of the information and details about an incident to only those with a need
to know.  The security/PII loss incident reporting process will ensure that SSA’s reporting requirements are met and that security/PII loss
incident information is only shared as appropriate.

4.  Additional Contractor Responsibilities When There Is a Loss of PII.

      (a)  The Contractor shall have a formal security/PII incident reporting process in place that outlines appropriate roles and
responsibilities, as well as the steps that must be taken, in the event of a security/PII loss incident.  The plan shall designate who within
the Contractor’s organization has responsibility for reporting the loss, compromise, or potential compromise of PII to SSA.


      (b)  In the event of a security/PII loss incident, the Contractor shall take immediate steps to address consequential security issues that
have been identified, including steps to minimize further security risks to those individuals whose personal information was lost, compromised,
or potentially compromised.


      (c)  The Contractor shall confer with SSA personnel in reviewing the actions the Contractor has taken and plans to take in dealing with the
incident.


      (d)  The Contractor shall bear the responsibility and any cost for any data breach and/or remediation actions that might arise from the
security/PII loss incident.   If SSA determines that the risk of harm requires notification of affected individual persons of the security
breach and/or other remedies, the Contractor shall carry out these remedies without cost to SSA.

5.  Applicability of this Clause to Subcontractors/Subcontractor Employees

         a)  The Contractor shall include this clause in all resulting subcontracts whenever there is any indication that the subcontractor and
            their employees, or successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, will or might have access to PII.


         b) The Contractor shall, within reason, take appropriate and necessary action to assure SSA that its subcontractor(s) and their
            employees, or any successor subcontractor(s) and their employees, with access to PII know the rules of conduct in protecting and
            reporting the loss or suspected loss of PII as prescribed in this clause, such as those regarding the emailing of PII as stated in
            Section 2.(d) above.

      (c)  Notification of Subcontractor Handling of PII.  If the Contractor engages a subcontractor under this contract whose employee(s) will
actually or potentially be given or have access to PII, the Contractor shall do the following:  (1) Notify in advance both the SSA  COTR and the
Contracting Officer of this arrangement, providing the subcontractor name(s) and address(es) and, upon request, a description of the nature of
the PII to which the employee(s) will actually or potentially be given/have access (e.g., phone numbers, Social Security numbers); and


      (d)  Provide the SSA COTR the names of the subcontractor employee(s) who will actually or potentially be assigned and/or have access to the
PII.  The Contractor may satisfy this requirement when submitting the name(s) of the subcontractor employee(s) to the SSA COTR for the requisite
security background check described in Section 6., below.

6.  Contractor/Subcontractor Background Checks – Security & Suitability Requirements Clause

      For each Contractor and subcontractor employee handling PII, the Contractor shall fulfill the requirements of the Security & Suitability
Requirements Clause, found elsewhere in this contract, to ensure that any such individual has the appropriate background checks.


C-4.6 0402 Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and Agency Privacy Management (OCT 2008)

1. Definitions

The following terms are defined for the purposes of this clause:

“Agency” means the Social Security Administration (SSA).

“OAG” means the Office of Acquisition and Grants at SSA.


2. Agency Responsibility related to FISMA Training Requirements

The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) (Title III, Pub. L. No. 107-347) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
policy (through Circular A-130, Appendix III) require that all Agency employees, as well as Contractor and subcontractor employees working under
Agency service contacts, receive periodic training in computer security awareness and accepted computer security practice of all employees,
including contractors.  This includes training for Contractor personnel who do not have access to electronic information systems. The training
level is tailored to the risk and magnitude of harm related to the required activities.

SSA’s Security Awareness bulletin adequately covers the required IT security and privacy awareness training for this contract.  The bulletin is
located on OAG’s internet site (see information in Paragraph 3 below).  This training does not preclude any additional training specified
elsewhere in this contract.


3. Contractor Responsibilities related to FISMA Training Requirements

     a. Following contract award, the Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor employees performing under this contract have signed the
        security bulletin entitled “SSA Security Awareness: Contractor Personnel Security Certification.”  This requirement also applies to
        Contractor employees added to the contract after contract performance has commenced.  A copy of this form is located on OAG's Internet
        website.
     b. The Contractor must receive signed copies of the bulletin from each employee working under the contract within 45 days following
        contract award, or within 45 days after a contractor employee begins working under the contract.
     c. The Contractor shall send an email to security.awareness.training@ssa.gov, with a copy to the contracting officer, within 60 days
        following contract award and anytime a new Contractor employee is added to perform work under the contract.  The Contractor will include
        in the email the number of employees who have signed the security awareness bulletin.
     d. The Contractor shall retain copies of these signed bulletins for potential future SSA audits for a period of three years after final
        payment (per FAR 4.703).
     e. For each successive year the contract is in operation, the Contractor shall repeat the processes described in items 3. a. – d., above,
        on an annual basis.  The Contractor must submit the information in 3.c, above, within 60 days of: (i) the date the option was renewed,
        or (ii) the anniversary of the contract award date.


4. Applicability of this Clause to Contractor/subcontractor employees

   The Contractor is required to include a clause substantially the same as this in all subcontracts awarded for technical or support services
   under the prime contract.  This clause shall require the subcontractors to report the information listed in Paragraph 3 of this clause to the
   Contractor and the Contractor will be responsible for reporting all applicable numbers to SSA.  The subcontractor shall be responsible for
   maintaining its signed forms as detailed in Paragraph 3.d.


C-4.7       Designation of Government Contracting Officer


Syreeta Gay, Contracting Officer, Division of Operations Contracts, has been assigned to administer the contractual aspects of this contract.
Any changes in the scope of work, contract cost, price, quantity or quality, shall be done by the Contracting Officer, by a properly executed
modification.  All correspondence that in any way concerns the terms or conditions of this contract shall be submitted directly to the
Contracting Officer at the following address:

            Social Security Administration
            Office of Acquisition and Grants
            Attention: Syreeta Gay
            7111 Security Boulevard
            1st Floor, Rear Entrance
            Baltimore, Maryland 21244
            Email: Syreeta.Gay@ssa.gov


C-4.8       Designation of Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR)

(a)   The individual(s) named below is hereby designated as the Government COTR. If an Alternate COTR is also listed below, that person will
       serve in the COTR's stead when the COTR is unavailable. The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of this contract, in
       accordance with the provisions of the clause included herein entitled, "Technical Direction."


            COTR:            [To be completed at time of award]


            Alternate COTR:       [To be completed at time of award]

(b)   The COTR, or his/her authorized representative, shall be responsible for coordinating with the contractor the technical aspects of the
       contract. The COTR is not authorized to make any changes which affect the contract amount, terms or conditions. The Contracting Officer
       is the only person with the authority to act as agent of the Government under this contract.  Only the Contracting Officer has authority
       to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes in the Statement of Work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery
       schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the contractor any costs incurred during the performance of this contract; or (5) otherwise
       change any terms and conditions of this contract.

   (c)      The COTR's authorized representative at the SSA site is to be filled in at the time of contract award.

C-4.9            Technical Direction

Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the PO or his/her designee.    The term "technical
direction" is defined to include, without limitation, the following:

      (a)   Directions to the contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require the
           pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish contractual statements of work.

      (b)  Provision of information to the contractor which assists in the interpretation of specifications or technical portions of the work
           description.

            (c)   Review and, where required by contract, approve technical reports, drawings, plans or schedules.

Technical direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract.  The PO (or designee) does not have the authority to, and
may not, issue any technical direction which:

(1) Constitutes the assignment of any additional work outside the general scope  of the contract; (2) in any manner causes an increase or
decrease in the total contract cost, or time required for the contract performance or (3) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions or
specifications of the contract.

All technical directions shall be issued in writing by the PO or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within 5 working days after issuance.

If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the PO is within one of the categories as defined in (1) through
(3) above, the Contractor shall not proceed, but shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, within 5 working days after receipt of any
such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting Officer to modify the contract accordingly.  Upon receiving such notification
from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the Contractor, in writing, that, in
his/her opinion, the technical direction is within the scope of this article.  The Contractor shall thereupon proceed immediately with the
direction given.  A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the instruction or direction, or upon the contract action to be taken
with respect thereto, shall be subject to the provisions of contract clause 52.212-4(d).




C-4.10           Contract Administration

The performance of the work required by this contract shall be conducted under the direction of the contractor’s representative named below:




       Name:
       Title:
       Address:
       Phone Number:
       Email address:

C-4.11           Contractor Performance Reviews and Reports

As of March 31, 2001, the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the National Institute of Health (NIH) entered into an interagency agreement
that allows SSA to utilize the NIH Contractor Performance System (CPS) to record contractor performance.


The NIH Contractor Performance System is an Internet-based system currently shared by federal departments and agencies used to collect, maintain
and disseminate contractor performance evaluations.  The CPS system captures, maintains and disseminates contractor performance on quality of
product/service, cost control, timeliness, business practices and customer satisfaction.  The same information you currently receive on your
written Contractor Performance Report. Completed evaluations are flagged by NIH and made accessible to all authorized federal acquisition
personnel.  Contractors and COTRs can view their own finalized evaluations but cannot make any changes or add comments.




        A. BACKGROUND


           Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 42.15, "Contractor Performance Information" (effective May 30, 1995), provides policies
           and establishes responsibilities for recording and maintaining Contractor performance information.  FAR 42.1502(a) stipulates that
           agencies shall prepare interim evaluations of Contractor performance in order to provide current information for source selection
           purposes, for contracts with a period of performance, including options, exceeding one (1) year.  Furthermore, a final
           assessment/evaluation of Contractor performance will be made at the time the work under the contract is completed.


           The Contractor performance reports for this contract will be prepared using the National Institutes of Health's (NIH) Contractor
           performance system.  Interim Contractor performance reports and a final Contractor performance report summarizing the performance
           evaluation for the entire contract period will be prepared at the end of the contract performance.  The Contractor should review FAR
           Subpart 42.15, entitled Contract Performance Information.


        B. POLICY


           The Office of Acquisition and Grants (OAG) will maintain current information relevant to Contractor performance, used as a
           performance assessment for awards of future contracts by SSA and other agencies.  The information must be timely, accurate, and
           relevant.  To that end, interim and final evaluations will be prepared for ongoing contracts to coincide with exercising an option or
           at other intervals consistent with the contract effort.  The instructions and guidelines for complying with the "Contractor
           Performance Reviews and Reports" are contained in Exhibit E-1, National Institute of Health (NIH) Contract Performance System
           Information (CPS).






































SECTION D - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS


D-1   52.212-5 – Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders – Commercial Items - Aug (2009)


   (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by
   reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:


   (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
      ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).


   (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).


   (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).


   (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
   this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:


    _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and
    10 U.S.C. 2402).
    __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
    __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-
    5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
    __ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5).
    __ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    _X_ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (7) [Reserved]
    _X_ (8)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
    __ (9)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
    _X_ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
    __ (11)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
    _X_ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
    __ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
    __ (14)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
    __ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355,
section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102,
and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
    _X_ (18)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
    _X_ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).
    __ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Aug 2009) (E.O. 13126).
    _X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
    _X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
    _X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    _X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
    _X_ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    _X_ (26) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
    _X_ (27) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)
    __ (28)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
      __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-
shelf items.)
    __ (29) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
    __ (30)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
    __ (31) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
    __ (32)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C.
2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
    __ (33) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
    _X_ (34) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
    __ (35) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (36) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (37) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    __ (38) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    _X_ (39) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (40) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (41) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    _X_ (42) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
    __ (43)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
  (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
  [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
    __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Nov 2006)
(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Feb 2002) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).
    __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
    __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).
    __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).


  (d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records—Negotiation.


    (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right
to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
    (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to
  appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made
available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
    (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
  (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—
      (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
      (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction
of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.
      (iii) [Reserved]
      (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
      (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
      (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
      (vii) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
      (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
      (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
      (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).
      (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance
with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
      (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow
down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
    (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary
to satisfy its contractual obligations.







































PART III - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, ATTACHMENTS


SECTION E - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND ATTACHMENTS

EXHIBITS


E-1   National Institute of Health (NIH) Contractor Performance System Information

      The Social Security Administration is a subscriber to the National Institute of Health (NIH) Contractor Performance System (CPS).
      The CPS is a Federal, multi-agency, web-based system created to collect, maintain, and disseminate contractor performance
      information as required by Federal Acquisition Regulation, Subpart 42.15.  The system allows contractors to access interim and
      final evaluations electronically for review and comment following registration in the system.

      All contractors who are currently engaged in the performance of a contract within this office must register with the CPS in order
      to access interim and final evaluations electronically.  You may register using the following website:
      https://cpscontractor.nih.gov.  To register, simply logon and click on the "Register Here" link.  This site provides instructions
      on how to register and offers computer-based training for contractors through the “CPS Contractor On-Line Training” hyperlink.
      There is no fee for registration or use of this system.  Electronic evaluations are available to registered Contractors for review
      30 days from the date the evaluation is sent.  You can obtain a copy of the Contractor Performance System User Manual at
      http://cps.od.nih.gov/.

      For those Contractors who choose not to register or are unable to register electronically, please notify your Contracting Officer
      of the representative designated by your firm to receive a copy of the evaluations for comment.  This individual will receive
      copies of your organization's evaluations by regular mail services.  It will be the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that the
      Contracting Officer receives any comments your company may have within the period identified by the Contracting Officer.  Comments
      after the specified period will not be accepted, unless an extension is requested of the Contracting Officer and is granted.

      If you have any questions regarding registering in the CPS, contact the NIH CPS Support help desk at (301) 451-2771 or send an E-
      mail to cps-support-l@list.nih.gov.

























PART IV – SOLICITATION PROVISIONS



SECTION F - ADDENDUM TO FAR PROVISION 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS (June 2008)

In accordance with FAR 12.301 (a)(1) and 12.302, the provision at 52.212-1 is hereby incorporated by reference via Block 27 of the Standard Form
1449 and tailored by this addendum as follows:

Section F-1 --Revisions to Paragraphs in 52.212-1


In accordance with FAR 12.301(a)(1), FAR clause 52.212-1 is supplemented as follows:


      (a)   North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard.


           The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449).

     b) Submission of offers is hereby revised as follows:


           Submit a signed and dated offer to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this
           solicitation.  The closing time and date for receipt of offers is 4:00 P.M. EST on September 18, 2009.  Offers may be submitted via
           email to Syreeta.Gay@ssa.gov.  Offers received at the address specified for receipt of offers after the exact date and time specified
           for receipt of offers will not be considered under any circumstances.  At a minimum, the offer must include:

           (1)   The Request for Quote number SSA-RFQ-09-2171;


           (2)   Completed Section C-4.10, Contract Administration;


           (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror;


              4) A technical approach of the offeror in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the required services;


                 At a minimum, the technical approach must include:


         - Identification of milestones or work breakdown structures;
         - Offerors approach to comply with each task in section B-1;
                     - Offerors ability to complete all technical requirements for performing the project;
                     - A description of resources (personnel and facilities) to execute the plan to include a staffing chart indicating who will
                       be performing what, number of hours, etc.;
                     - Description of which portions (if any) of the effort will be subcontracted;
                     - Description of the number of hours required to accomplish the work effort at each stage of implementation;

           (5)   Prices and any discount terms (completed Section A)


           (7)   A completed copy of the Offeror Representations and Certifications in Section H;


           (8)   Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments (if any);


           (10)  A signed copy of the SF-1449;


           (11)  Experience and Past Performance Information.  The offeror shall include a full and complete description of the organization’s
                 most relevant experience and past performance in performing projects of comparable size, scope and complexity to the
                 requirements of this solicitation.  Offerors shall submit a sufficient number of citations/references in order to adequately and
                 conclusively demonstrate this requirement.  The total number of references provided shall not exceed five (5).


               Citations/references must have either been completed within the last three (3) years, or be currently active.  Note that
               currently active citations/references must be at least one (1) year old.  For EACH citation/reference listed the vendor shall
               provide the following information:

               (a)  Client/Company/Agency Name;

               (b)  Client Address:

                    (i)      Name of the Contracting Officer/Point-of-Contact;


                    (ii)     Telephone Number of the Contracting Officer/Point-of-Contact (including area code and extension, if appropriate);


                    (iii)    FAX Number of the Contracting Officer /Point-of-Contact;


                    (iv)     Name of the Project Officer/Technical Point-of-Contact;


                    (v)      Telephone Number of the Project Officer/Technical Point-of-Contact (including area code and extension, if
                        appropriate);


                    (vi)     FAX Number of the Project Officer /Technical Point-of-Contact.


               (c)     A complete and full description of the services provided for each reference.  Specifically, describe the extent to which
                    the work required under the cited/referenced effort is similar in size, scope and complexity to the requirements set forth
                    in Section C and elsewhere in this solicitation


                 Include any additional information that will further describe the activities/functions performed and demonstrate the
                 relationship of such experience to the requirement of this solicitation.




      (c)   Period for acceptance of offers.  The amount of time the offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm is hereby changed to 60
           days from the date specified for receipt of offers.


      (d)   Product samples is hereby deleted in its entirety as it has been determined to be not applicable to this solicitation.


      (e)   Multiple offers is hereby deleted in its entirety as it has been determined to be not applicable to this solicitation.


      (f)   Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers is hereby revised as follows:  Any offer, modification,
           revision or withdrawal of an offer received at the address specified for receipt of offers after the exact date and time specified
           for receipt will not be considered for award under any circumstances.


      (g)   Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids) is hereby revised as follows:


           The Government intends to evaluate responses and award a contract without discussions with offerors.  Therefore, the offeror's
           initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price, experience and past performance standpoint.  However, the
           Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government
           may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest and may waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers
           received.


      (h)   Multiple awards is hereby deleted in its entirety as it has been determined to be not applicable to this solicitation.


      (i)   Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation is hereby deleted in its entirety as it has been determined to be
           not applicable to this solicitation.




Section F-2 –FAR Provisions Incorporated in Full Text


F-2.1 52.216-1, TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

       The Government contemplates awarding a Firm Fixed-Price contract resulting from this solicitation.


F-2.2 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (AUG 1996)

       (a)  Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of
              any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as
              follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Christian Hellie, Social Security Administration (SSA),
              7111 Security Blvd, 1st Floor, Rear Entrance, Baltimore, MD 21244.


       (b)  The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one (1) business day of filing a protest with the
              GAO.





Section F-3 – Additional Agency Specific Provisions

F-3.1 Solicitation Inquiries

      Inquiries concerning the solicitation document shall be submitted in writing via e-mail to the attention of Syreeta Gay at
      Syreeta.Gay@ssa.gov.

      ALL INQUIRIES MUST BE RECEIVED NO LATER THAN 3:00 P.M., EST ON SEPTEMBER 16, 2009.

      The Government will make every attempt to answer questions which will not automatically result in the extension of the quote due date.


















SECTION G - ADDENDUM TO FAR PROVISION 52.212-2, EVALUATION – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)


G-1   52.212-2 Evaluation – Commercial Items (Jan 1999)



(a)   The Government will award a fixed price contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the
      solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, technical approach, experience, past performance and price considered. Evaluation
      criteria are listed in descending order of importance. Technical capability of the offer is the most important evaluation factor.
      Experience as demonstrated by the listing of previous and/or current contracts along with the full descriptions of previous work is the
      next most important factor.  Past Performance assessments by the references and/or other sources is the next most important factor.  Price
      is less important than the technical approach of the offeror, and also the experience and past performance assessment.


        1. Technical Approach


           Quotes will be evaluated in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section F-1, Paragraph (b) (4) to determine the offeror’s
           ability to complete all technical requirements for performing the project.   SSA will evaluate the Technical submissions to determine
           that the contractor has an understanding of the requirement, the necessary resources (personnel and facilities) for successful
           implementation, and sufficient resources to meet and complete all technical requirements for performing the project.


           Offers will be evaluated based on a subjective assessment of the offeror’s technical approach to accomplish all requirements.  All
           requirements in the Statement of Work must be addressed.  SSA will not consider merely indicating compliance, without stating how, as
           an acceptable response.




           To facilitate the assessment of the Offeror’s technical approach, the following scale of rating factors will be used:


           Outstanding – Proposed approach has major strengths that indicate a complete understanding of the requirement.  Essential elements of
           the particular factor are clearly demonstrated and documented.  There are no weaknesses in the proposed technical approach. There is
           no performance risk associated with the proposed technical approach.


           Good – Proposed approach is adequately responsive with no major weaknesses.  Offeror demonstrates an understanding of the
           requirement. There is low performance risk associated with the proposed technical approach


           Satisfactory – Proposed approach demonstrates a generally adequate, but not always in-depth, understanding of the requirement.
           Improvement is possible in some areas.  There is moderate performance risk associated with the proposed technical approach.


           Unsatisfactory - Proposed approach is unresponsive and reveals an inadequate understanding of the requirement.   The proposal has
           very few if any strengths.  Major weaknesses exist and/or many minor weaknesses that are not offset by strengths.  There is high
           performance risk associated with the proposed technical approach.


           If the offeror’s technical response is found to be unsatisfactory, the offeror may not be further considered for contract award.




        2. Experience

           Evaluation will consider demonstrated experience of the offeror’s organization in providing services of a type similar in size,
           scope, and complexity to that described in this solicitation.   The Government’s evaluation of experience will be a subjective
           assessment based upon information supplied by the offeror in their response to this solicitation.

           To facilitate the assessment of the Offeror’s experience, the following scale of rating factors will be used:


           Outstanding – Fully demonstrates relevant experience and qualifications to perform the activities identified in the Statement of
           Work.  No performance risk is associated with experience, or lack thereof.


           Satisfactory – Somewhat demonstrates relevant experience and qualifications to perform the activities identified in the Statement of
           Work. Moderate performance risk is associated with experience, or lack threof.


           Unsatisfactory - Does not demonstrate relevant experience and qualifications to perform the activities identified in the Statement of
           Work. High performance risk is associated with lack of relevant experience.










            3.    Past Performance


           Past Performance is defined as a measure of how well the offeror has satisfied its customers; obeyed applicable laws and regulations;
           and conducted its business in an ethical manner.  The government’s evaluation of an offeror’s past performance will be a subjective
           assessment based upon information supplied by the offeror in their response to this solicitation and via subsequent reference checks.
            The government will also use other resources, which may be available from a variety of other public and private resources. This
           criterion includes, but is not limited to, factors such as:


           Quality of Service - Compliance with contract requirements; conformance to standards of good workmanship; accuracy of reports;
           technical excellence; customer satisfaction; etc.


           Cost Control - Billings are current and accurate; complete and timely; cost efficiencies implemented; etc.


           Timeliness of Performance – Reliable, responsive to technical direction; adhered to the contract schedule; completed on time
           including wrap-up and contract administration; no liquidated damages or history of significant performance penalties/deductions, etc.


           Business Relations - Effective and efficient management; businesslike correspondence; responsive to contract requirements; prompt
           notification of problems; reasonable/cooperative behavior; flexible; pro-active behavior; etc.


           Personnel Management - Effective and efficient management of work force; work force properly trained and given proper direction to
           ensure that required tasks are successfully performed; responsive to contract requirements; reasonable/cooperative behavior; absence
           of staffing shortages; low employee turnover; etc.


           Subcontractor Utilization - Effective and efficient management of subcontractors; use of quality subcontractors; clear delineation of
           responsibilities; etc.


           SSA reserves the right to conduct any or all reference checks deemed necessary to enable an adequate evaluation of the offeror’s
           record of past performance.  SSA does not guarantee, however, that all citations/references provided will be contacted and/or used in
           performing this evaluation.
           In order to facilitate the Government's evaluation of the offeror's past performance, the Government reserves the right to make only
           two (2) attempts to contact any given citation/reference: an initial attempt, and one (1) follow-up attempt should the initial
           attempt be unsuccessful for whatever reason.  In the event that both attempts are unsuccessful, the offeror's past performance for
           the particular reference will be rated as neutral.   Therefore, it is incumbent upon the offeror to ensure that the appropriate
           points-of-contact for all references are accurate and that they are notified that they may be contacted relative to this
           solicitation.


           To facilitate the assessment of an offeror's past performance, the following past performance rating factors will be utilized:


           Description


           Outstanding – Past performance clearly and consistently exceeded customer expectations.


           Excellent - Entirely favorable past performance.


           Good - More favorable than unfavorable past performance.


           Neutral –No record or inconclusive record (favorable and unfavorable past performance approximately equal) of past performance.


           Poor – More unfavorable than favorable past performance.


           Unsatisfactory – Entirely unfavorable past performance.




           4.    Price


           The Government’s evaluation of price will consider the following:
           The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all Option Years to the total price for the Base
           Year.  This includes all prices proposed in both Section A-1 and Section A-2.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the
           Government to exercise the option(s).  Proposed prices will not be point-scored in the evaluation process.


           Offerors are advised that unrealistically low offers may be construed as indicative of a significant lack of understanding of the
           requirements of this solicitation/contract and will be considered in determining the risk inherent in awarding a contract to such an
           offeror.


(b)   Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic
      requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of
      options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).


(c)   A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for
      acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified
      expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless
      a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

G-2   Additional Agency-Specific Provisions

      G-2.1 Offeror’s Responsibility

      FAR 9.103(b) requires that the Contracting Officer make an affirmative determination of responsibility for a prospective Contractor with
      respect to any proposed contract award.  Therefore, due consideration shall also be given to those general standards for responsible
      prospective Contractors and subcontractors as set forth in FAR 9.104-1, including (but not necessarily limited to) whether the offeror is
      otherwise qualified and eligible to receive an award under applicable laws and regulations.



G-3   Basis for Award

      The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the offeror who represents the best value to the government
      in accordance with provision G-1 above.
      A comparative evaluation of the offers received will be conducted.  Such comparative evaluation will be based on information provided by
      the offeror, as well as on information known by the Government or obtained by the Government from other sources.
























SECTION H - FAR PROVISION 52.212-3, OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009)

  An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications
electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA
website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision.
  (a) Definitions. As used in this provision—
  “Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS
code designated.
  “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—
    (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not
offer himself voluntarily; or
    (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.
  “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—
    (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;
    (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;
    (3) FSG 88, Live Animals;
    (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;
    (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;
    (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;
    (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;
    (8) FSC 9610, Ores;
    (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and
    (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
  “Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials
into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not
the place of manufacture.
  “Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities,
oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of
2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person conducting the business can
demonstrate—
    (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;
    (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;
    (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
    (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;
    (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
    (6) Have been voluntarily suspended.
  “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
    (1) Means a small business concern—
      (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not
less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
      (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
    (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in
38 U.S.C. 101(16).
  “Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size
standards in this solicitation.
  “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
    (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
  “Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by
one or more women.
  “Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
of which is owned by one or more women; and
    (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
  (b)
    (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically
change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website.
    (2) The offeror ____ (check if completed) has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at
http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations
and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been
entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size
standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by
reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________.
  [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (m) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this
solicitation only, if any.
  These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the
date of this offer.
  Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
certifications posted on ORCA.]
  (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying
areas. Check all that apply.
    (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a small business concern.
    (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
    (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business
concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not a service-disabled veteran-
owned small business concern.
    (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ο is, ο is not a small disadvantaged business concern as
defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
    (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents that it ο is, ο is not a women-owned small business concern.
  Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
    (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did
not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ο is a women-owned
business concern.
    (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor
surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more
than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________
    (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small
Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the
size standards for this solicitation.]
      (i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated
industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ο is, ο is not an emerging small business.
      (ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated
industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows:
        (A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is
expressed in terms of number of employees); or
        (B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size
standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts).
  (Check one of the following):
|Number of Employees               |Average Annual Gross Revenues                     |
|__ 50 or fewer                    |__ $1 million or less                             |
|__ 51–100                         |__ $1,000,001–$2 million                          |
|__ 101–250                        |__ $2,000,001–$3.5 million                        |
|__ 251–500                        |__ $3,500,001–$5 million                          |
|__ 501–750                        |__ $5,000,001–$10 million                         |
|__ 751–1,000                      |__ $10,000,001–$17 million                        |
|__ Over 1,000                     |__ Over $17 million                               |


    (9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged
Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror
desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.]
      (i) General. The offeror represents that either—
        (A) It ο is, ο is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the
date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration
(PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is
owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not
exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or
        (B) It ο has, ο has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as
a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no
material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.
      (ii) ο Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of
its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in
paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The
offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]
    (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that—
      (i) It ο is, ο is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small
Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone
employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and
      (ii) It ο is, ο is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in
paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone
representation.
  (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246—
    (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It ο has, ο has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation;
and
      (ii) It ο has, ο has not filed all required compliance reports.
    (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It ο has developed and has on file, ο has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs
required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or
      (ii) It ο has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of
the Secretary of Labor.
  (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant
contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to
this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the
name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
  (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is
included in this solicitation.)
    (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and
that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside
the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as
domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of
“domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,”
“foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”
    (2) Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
  (g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free
Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a
domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced,
or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-
shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade
Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American
Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.”
      (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan,
Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade
Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this
provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall
list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an
end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”
  Other Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
    (2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled
  “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian End Products:
|Line Item No.                                                         |
|_______________________________________                               |
|_______________________________________                               |
|_______________________________________                               |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of
  this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or
designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”
      (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.
  Other End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO
GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American
Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer
determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the
solicitation.
  (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
principals—
    (1) ο Are, ο are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal
agency;
    (2) ο Have, ο have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for:
commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government
contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement,
theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or
receiving stolen property;
    (3) ο Are, ο are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of
these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and
    (4) ο Have, ο have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that
exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
      (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
        (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally
determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is
not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
        (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full
payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
      (ii) Examples.
        (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review
of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review,
this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
        (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice
under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal
to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the
underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is
not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised
all judicial appeal rights.
        (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in
full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.
        (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under
11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
  (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in
paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]
    (1) Listed end products.
|Listed End Product                |Listed Countries of Origin               |
|___________________               |___________________                      |
|___________________               |___________________                      |


    (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision,
then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]
      [  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured
in the corresponding country as listed for that product.
      [  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in
the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or
indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those
efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.
  (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly—
    (1) ο In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds
the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or
    (2) ο Outside the United States.
  (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.)
[The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]
    [  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ο does ο does not certify
that—
      (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or
traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of
normal business operations;
      (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and
      (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as
that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.
    [  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ο does ο does not certify that—
      (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or
subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;

      (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(d)(2)(iii));
      (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly
average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract
period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
      (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used
for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.
    (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—
      (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service
Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and
      (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.
  (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)
    (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection
requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued
by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
    (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the
Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN
provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.
    (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
      ο€ TIN: ________________________________.
      ο€ TIN has been applied for.
      ο€ TIN is not required because:
      ο€ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United
States;
      ο€ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
      ο€ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
    (4) Type of organization.
      ο€ Sole proprietorship;
      ο€ Partnership;
      ο€ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
      ο€ Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
      ο€ Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
      ο€ Foreign government;
      ο€ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
      ο€ Other ________________________________.
    (5) Common parent.
      ο€ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
      ο€ Name and TIN of common parent:
        Name ________________________________.
        TIN _________________________________.
  (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that it does not conduct any restricted business
operations in Sudan.

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

0449-09-1003 SSA-RFQ-09-2171
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls) 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1

2
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

09/14/2009

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

SYREETA GAY
CODE

410-965-9510 00600
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

09/18/2009 1400 ET
SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS % FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS Sole Source

9. ISSUED BY

Social Security Administration Office of Acquisition and Grants 1st Floor - Rear Entrance 7111 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1811
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X UNRESTRICTED OR

NAICS:

541511

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.0
13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

8(A)

X SEE SCHEDULE
15. DELIVER TO CODE

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

0013

16. ADMINISTERED BY

OAG

Social Security Administration After 4pm-Call First 410-965-4070 Rcvg Hrs: 7:30a-6:00p Operations Bldg Loading Dock 6401 Security Blvd Baltimore MD 21235-0001
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION Office of Acquisition and Grants 1st Floor - Rear Entrance 7111 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1811
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

This is a Request for Quote (RFQ) for the development and technical support of an Electronic Health Record (EHR)System. 0001 The Contractor shall provide services to include development, technical support and consultation services for an Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as required by the attached solicitation document SSA-RFQ-09-2171. Continued ...
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

1 EA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDEND

X ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

SYREETA GAY
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

2
24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

