
This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6 – Streamlined Procedures
for Evaluation and Solicitation for Commercial Items, in conjunction with FAR Part 13, as supplemented with additional information included in
this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This
solicitation is issued as a Request for Quotation (RFQ) number SP7000-15-Q-1003.

This notice incorporates provisions and clauses in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular (FAC) 2005-77 effective 13 Nov 2014, and Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) DPN  20141113 edition, and Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive (DLAD) Current to Revision
5, and PROCLTR 2015-07.

This acquisition is unrestricted. The associated North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code is 532420.

DLA Document Services HQ has a requirement to purchase a quantity of nine (9) volume band 1A Multi-functional devices and two (2) volume band 1B
Multi-functional devices, eleven (11) devices total. Volume band requirements and descriptions are located within the attached Statement of Work
(SOW).

Schedule of Supplies/Services
Base Period – Period of Performance: 1/1/2015 – 9/30/2015 (9 Months)
CLIN 0001 – VB-1A Networked Black and White, Standalone device.
QTY 9 @ $_________________ EACH = $_______________ TOTAL
CLIN 0002 – VB-1B Networked Black and White, Multi-Functional Device. With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.
QTY 2 @ $_________________ EACH = $_______________ TOTAL

1st Option Period – Period of Performance: 10/1/2015 – 4/30/2016 (7 Months)
CLIN 1001 – VB-1A Networked Black and White, Standalone device.
QTY 9 @ $_________________ EACH = $_______________ TOTAL
CLIN 1002 – VB-1B Networked Black and White, Multi-Functional Device. With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.
QTY 2 @ $_________________ EACH = $_______________ TOTAL

Delivery is 30 days after receipt of order. Shipping shall be FOB Destination.  Delivery schedule is attached.

Any award resulting from this solicitation will be issued on a Standard Form (SF) 1449.

All invoicing under this contract will be accomplished via Wide Area Workflow (WAWF).


The following FAR, DFARS and DLAD clauses and provisions apply to this solicitation. The complete text of any of the clauses and provisions may
be accessed in full text at http://farsite.hill.af.mil/.

FAR 52.212-1: Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Items Addenda to 52.212-1; the following paragraphs are hereby deleted from this provision:
(d) product samples, (e) multiple offers, and (h) multiple awards.
NOTE: To receive an award resulting from this solicitation, offerors MUST be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) database IAW
FAR 52.212-1(k) and DFARS 204.1104. Registration may be completed online at: http://www.sam.gov/.


52.217-9 - Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 15 days provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 16 months.
(End of Clause)

The following provisions are included in full text:
DLAD 52.233-9000 AGENCY PROTESTS (NOV 2011)
(a) Companies protesting this procurement may file a protest

(1) with the Contracting Officer,

(2) with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), or

(3) pursuant to Executive Order Number 12979, with the Agency for a decision by the Activity’s Chief of the Contracting Office.

(b) Protests filed with the agency should clearly state that they are an "Agency Level Protest under Executive Order Number 12979."

(c) Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) procedures for Agency Level Protests filed under Executive Order Number 12979 allow for a higher level
decision on the initial protest than would occur with a protest to the Contracting Officer; this process is not an appellate review of a
Contracting Officer's decision on a protest previously filed with the Contracting Officer. Absent a clear indication of the intent to file an
agency level protest, protests will be presumed to be protests to the Contracting Officer.

(End of Provision)

DLAD 52.233-9001 DISPUTES: AGREEMENT TO USE ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) (NOV 2011)

(a) The parties agree to negotiate with each other to try to resolve any disputes that may arise. If unassisted negotiations are unsuccessful,
the parties will use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques to try to resolve the dispute. Litigation will only be considered as a last
resort when ADR is unsuccessful or has been documented by the party rejecting ADR to be inappropriate for resolving the dispute.

(b) Before either party determines ADR inappropriate, that party must discuss the use of ADR with the other party. The documentation rejecting
ADR must be signed by an official authorized to bind the Contractor (see Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.233-1), or, for the
Agency, by the Contracting Officer, and approved at a level above the Contracting Officer after consultation with the ADR Specialist and with
legal. Contractor personnel are also encouraged to include the ADR Specialist in their discussions with the Contracting Officer before
determining ADR to be inappropriate.

(c) The offeror should check here to opt out of this clause:

[ ] Alternate wording may be negotiated with the Contracting Officer.

(End of Provision)

1. Quotations may be submitted in contractor format and shall include:

      (1) Company name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and FAX number

      (2) Solicitation number

      (3) Contractor DUNS Number and Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code

      (4) Unit Price and extended price for CLIN

      (5) Technical information (as stated below under FAR 13.106-2)

      (6) Signed acknowledgements of amendments (applicable only if any amendments are issued against this solicitation)

2. Contractors are required to include a copy of the FAR provision 52.212-3-Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items with its
proposal or may indicate completion of the representations and certifications on the internet at http://orca.bpn.gov. Failure to include the
certifications along with the price proposal or to complete the certifications on the internet may result in elimination from consideration for
award.

FAR 13.106-2 Evaluation of Quotations or Offers – The Government intends to evaluate quotes in response to this quotation and will award one
firm-fixed priced contract to the lowest price, technically acceptable contractor whose quote represents the lowest price. Therefore, to be
considered for award, contractors are required to submit descriptive product literature/technical information which clearly indicates the
product offered meets the Government minimum requirements. This information will be used to determine technical acceptability. Technical
information will be evaluated for acceptability (only) on a pass/fail basis and will not be rated. Any contractor who has submitted technically
acceptable product information will then have its quote evaluated for price.



FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items, Addenda to 52.212-4; the following clauses apply:

FAR 52.247-34 FOB DESTINATION

FAR 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders – Commercial Items; in paragraph (b) the
following clauses apply:

FAR 52.222-19, Child Labor – Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies
FAR 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons
FAR 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products
FAR 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving
FAR 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases
FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration
DFARS 252.225-7001, Buy American and Balance Payments Program
DFARS 252.225-7036, Buy American Act – Free Trade Agreements – Balance of Payments Program with Alternate I
DFARS 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea with Alternate III

Additional required clauses other than those above may be included as Addenda on the award document.

All questions and inquiries should be addressed via email to the Contract Specialist POC, matthew.obrien@dla.mil -- Request for Quotation Number
SP7000-15-Q-1003.

Offerors responding to this announcement must submit their quotation via email to matthew.obrien@dla.mil.  All quotes and supporting
documentation must be received by November 26, 2014 at 12:00 PM EST to be considered for award.  Offers and supporting documentation submitted
after the closing date will not be considered for award.

SOW FY142

Date created/revised:  FY15             November 24, 2014      Statement of Work (SOW)    DLA DOCUMENT SERVICES    DLA Document Services       Pacific       Office Group seeks to enter into a contract for up to   16   months of  services and equipment associated with    11     MultiFunctional Devices (MFDs) and copier machines (hereafter  collectively referred to as devices) including installation and removal, full service maintenance, all consumable  supplies (excluding paper), key operator training, reports, relocations, network functionality, and network  security.    The geographic scope of this contracting action is:       THE CONTIGUOUS UNTIED STATES (CONUS) does not include Alaska or Hawaii.  See delivery schedule    for initial installations.   x   OUTSIDE THE CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES (OCONUS) and limited to a 50 mile radius and within the           same country (ies) of the delivery schedule.         CAMP KINSER, CAMP COURTNEY, YOKOSUKA, KADENA, CAMP FOSTER, ZAMA, YOKOTA, MISAWA, SASEBO,  ATSUGI (JAPAN     
 

1.0     1.1

GENERAL INFORMATION.  This is a firm fixed price commercial acquisition.  The contractor is responsible to comply with all rules and regulations to obtain installation access in order to  meet all response times stated in the SOW.  The contractor shall comply with base access and vehicle  registration requirements regarding contractorowned and contractor employee privately owned vehicles as  set forth in the base/command regulations.  All vehicles, including those with passes or decals, are subject to  random search at any time.    All deliveries or services provided under this contract require a Customer Acceptance Form (attached) be                      signed and dated by the DLA Document Services' customer.      Upon completion of any installations, deliveries, relocations, removals, maintenance services, or any  support action, the contractor will provide the receiving customer with the Customer Acceptance Form, for  their signature as a means of consent by the receiving agency/command that the action was completed.    This Customer Acceptance Form will be signed to include the following:  (1) Activity Name, (2) Model and  Serial numbers; (3) date of removal; (4) removal locations (to include building numbers, room numbers, (5)  Information Assurance Managers (IAMs) or their designated assignee's name, phone numbers, email  addresses and their validating signature confirming receipt of the devices status.     This Customer Acceptance Form must be submitted to the DLA Document Services Contracting Officer  Representative (COR) within 10 calendar days of completing the install/removal.    Invoices will be submitted via Wide Area Work Flow (WAWF) and will include the Installation Report and  spreadsheet with the serial numbers and locations of each device on a monthly basis.  Invoices will be in 

1.2

  1.3

SOW FY142

United States Dollars.   The first invoice will not be paid unless the installation report spreadsheet  referenced in Paragraph 6.2 of the Statement of Work has been provided.   No Invoice will be approved without a fully completed spreadsheet and the signed Customer Acceptance  Form. There will be no interest penalty incurred by the government for delay of payment due to a vendor  delay in providing the Installation Report.    1.4     The final invoice must include the Removal Report referenced in Paragraph 2.5 of this Statement of Work.   Failure to provide the Removal Report will result in an invoice rejection.  The government will not pay the  final invoice until such time as the Removal Report has been furnished IAW Paragraph 2.5.  There will be no  interest penalty incurred by the government for delay of payment due to a vendor delay in providing the  Removal Report.    2.0  INSTALLATION & REMOVALS.  The contractor shall:      2.1  Initial installations will be IAW the timeframes outlined in the chart below.  Installation of optional devices  can only be authorized by a Contracting Officer.   New installations requests shall not occur within the last  12 months of the contract term.  Regardless of installation date, all devices will maintain a coterminus  Period of Performance (PoP) unless an extension of the PoP is issued the Contracting Officer.    2.2  The Government requires delivery to be made according to the following schedule:      Amount of Devices  Maximum Number of Calendar Days  Per Contracting Action  to Complete Installation  Up to 100  101 ­ 200  201 ­ 500  More than 500  30  45  60  90 

    2.3  Provide a toll free telephone number(s) to place service maintenance calls and order consumable supplies.   The contractor shall affix its toll free telephone number(s) on each device placed on this contract, as well as  the DLA Document Services EMS sticker.  (DLA Document Services will provide the stickers).  In addition, the  contractor shall ensure each device has the manufacturer's name, model number, and machine serial  number legibly stamped or affixed to the device in a readily accessible location.  The contractor shall provide  English speaking personnel at the tollfree number(s) it provides in this paragraph.    2.4  Remove all devices and associated supplies from Government premises within thirty (30) calendar days of  contract expiration or receipt of a valid removal order.  Contractor is required to submit the Customer  Acceptance Form after the removal. In the case of termination, DLA Document Services shall provide the  contractor with a final cancellation and removal order depicting each device's serial number, location, and  local contact phone number.  Devices not removed by the contractor within thirty (30) calendar days shall  be deemed abandoned and subject to such disposal as the Government may deem appropriate at the  contractor's expense.      

SOW FY142

2.4.1 

Upon termination or expiration of the contract, the hard drive and/or any component containing  residual data, will be removed by the vendor/contractor and turned over to DLA Document  Services (or its designated assignee) and provide written verification to the designated COR. In all  cases where the customer or DLA Document Services requests to own the hard drive at the term  of the contract and at time of removals, the contractor, as part of their quoted price, shall provide  a replacement hard drive to ensure equipment is fully operational.    

   2.4.2  Government Owned Equipment, as part of the Contractors quoted price, when requested.  It will be the Contractor's responsibility for removal and disposal of existing Government Owned  Equipment which refers to those MFDs purchased and may require the removal and disposal from  Government premises.  As part of the Contractors quoted price; prior to removal, DLA Document  Services requires the Contractor to remove all hard drives from the controllers and print engines,  turn the hard drives over to DLA Document Services, and provide documentation to the COR  signed by the Contractor and the local DLA Document Services representative attesting to the  hard drive removal and receipt by DLA Document Services.  All hard drives will remain the  possession of DLA Document Services.  It will be the Contractor's responsibility to remove and  dispose of existing equipment.  Offerors will have the opportunity to list the cost of removing the  equipment when pricing the contract.  Removal of existing equipment will be coordinated by the  location POC named in the delivery order.      2.5     Provide a Vendor Removal Report to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) within (10) calendar days  after removal.  The Removal Report must be provided in an excel spreadsheet format (version 2003 or newer) that  provides the Purchase Order Number (PO#) along with the following:  (1) date of installation; (2) date of removal  (3) serial numbers/ CLIN; (4) removal locations to include building numbers, room numbers, customer POC name,  phone numbers, email addresses; and (5) copy of trucking company pickup order/GBL.   3.0  TRAINING.  The contractor shall:    3.1  Provide onsite training in English within three (3) business days after installation to key operators.  A  training schedule shall be established prior to device delivery and shall be noted on the installation report.     The training schedule shall show training dates and times.  Special and remote areas shall be provided  training at the new device's location(s).      3.2  The contractor shall provide initial training upon installation of devices and any follow up training can be  furnished via a quick reference desk guide in addition to a CD ROM or web based selfguided instructions     3.2.1  Quick reference guide should be single sheet,  2 sided print, no larger than 8.5 X 11 paper size,  laminated, full color and easily stowed away with the device.       4.0  MAINTENANCE (Including Operational Standards & Performance).  The contractor shall:    4.1 Maintain each device at a minimum 95% monthly available rate based on the 21 standard federal work days  in a month.  Maintaining the devices includes, but is not limited to, preventive maintenance, service calls,  repairs, troubleshooting, connectivity and maintenance as required, to correct hardware and software  malfunctions within 30 days, and to mitigate high risk findings identified by customers running DOD  approved network scanning tool as well as all associated labor and travel.      4.2 Provide service technician support Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. ­ 4:30 p.m. local time, except  varying Federal or local Holidays.  The contractor shall provide a service technician who speaks English.  

SOW FY142

4.3

  Respond to work stoppage situations within two (2) or four (4) business hours of a service call.  A  telephone call (unless it results in solving the problem) shall not be deemed as an acceptable service  response.  The service technician shall call the key operator within an hour to discuss service problem and  time of arrival.  It is estimated that 10% of service calls will be classified as "work stoppage" across the total  device population on a yearly basis.  Respond to nonwork stoppage situations within four (4) or eight (8) business hours of a service call.  A  telephone call (unless it results in solving the problem) shall not be deemed as an acceptable service  response.  The service technician shall call the key operator within an hour to discuss service problem and  time of arrival.    

  4.4

In the case of devices cleared for CLASSIFIED material, the contractor's repair technicians shall have a  Department of Defense (DOD) security clearance equal to or higher than the classification of the device and  be able to provide verification when requested.    4.6  Inform the designated COR within two (2) business days of the determination that device is nonrepairable  and provide comparable replacement device within two (2) or five (5) business days from receipt of an  order from the contracting officer.      5.0  CONSUMABLE SUPPLIES.  The contractor shall:    5.1 Provide all consumable supplies (including staples) necessary for the operation of the devices.  Paper is  excluded as a consumable supply.      5.2 Deliver all required consumable supplies to the designated locations listed on the delivery schedule within  two (2) business days after receipt of an order.    6.0  REPORTS.  The contractor shall:     6.1  Provide to the designated COR a quarterly usage report in electronic (Microsoft compatible) format on the  total and average monthly production volumes by serial number for all devices. Reports are due 15 business  days in the months of December, March, June and September after the 3 month usage period is completed.   In addition, the COR may request adhoc usage report by serial numbers.     6.2 Submit a device installation report to the designated COR within ten (10) calendar days after installation.   Each installation report shall include an excel spreadsheet format (version 2003 or newer) that provides the  Purchase Order Number (PO#)  along with the following:  (1) date of installation; (2) serial numbers/ CLIN;  (3) delivery locations (to include building numbers, room numbers, DLA Document Services' customer  names, phone numbers, email addresses); and (4) delivery report (packing slip or a separate spreadsheet)  which clearly identifies the Contract Line Item Number(s) (CLINs) of the order.    6.3 Provide service history reports containing frequency of service calls, production volume between repairs,  type of repairs, parts required, and device down time to the designated COR within 5 business days upon  request for information.    6.4 Provide a summary of training report within 5 business days of training completion by serial number and  listing personnel trained.   

  4.5

SOW FY142

Maintain an accurate listing of all devices under contract (model, serial number, location) and provide to the  designated COR with the monthly invoice.  The contractor shall invoice in and be paid in U.S. Dollars.    6.6     Report all labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services                    executed under this agreement with DLA Document Services. Using the following website:  http://www.ecmra.mil/ completely fill in the appropriate information pertaining to all labor hours  performed and report them during the period of performance of that contract during each Government  fiscal year (FY) which runs from October 1 through September 30.  Information may be reported into the  website at any time during the fiscal year but all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each  calendar year.        7.0     EMS  MODEL SUBSTITUTIONS.  The contractor shall:  After contract award and initial installation, determine if an alternative solution (1) meets or exceeds all the  requirements set forth in this Statement of Work, (2) meets or exceeds all the performance qualities set  forth in the contractor's quote, AND (3) can be offered at unit prices that are equal to or less than those of  the contractor's quote or the current contract price, whichever is less.     7.1  Provide confirmation of model discontinuance due to equipment life cycles.    7.2  Verify the substitution.    7.3  Validate nocost impact.    7.4  No model substitutions will be made without first receiving written approval by the contracting officer.    8.0  DEVICE RELOCATION.  The contractor shall:    8.1   Provide relocations aggregating to an amount equal to the total number of devices under contract for each  year of the contract.  (For example, if there 36 devices under contract then the contractor will provide up to  36 relocations per year.  This may mean relocating the same device 36 times, relocating 36 different devices  once each, or any other combination thereof each year.)   Relocations shall be limited to a 50 mile radius  from where the devices to be moved are located and shall not require rigging or special handling.  Devices  shall not be relocated without written approval from the designated COR and shall be completed within 30  calendar days after receipt of the approved request.  Contractor is also required to submit the Customer  Acceptance Form after the relocation.      Note:  Device relocation shall include the following depending on the needs of the Government: breakdown  and packing of equipment, shipping, uncrating, reinstallation and key operator training.     9.0  DEVICES & CONFIGURATIONS.  The contractor shall:     9.1  Provide devices for all Volume Bands that:    9.1.1    Is new or remanufactured as well as currently manufactured, and actively marketed. The      terms "new" and "remanufactured" are defined at FAR 52.2115.  9.1.2  Comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. § 794d), and the Architectural  and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information Technology (EIT)  Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194) as amended.  See Enclosure (1). 

6.5

SOW FY142

   

  9.1.3 

Comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) when installed at  government medical sites.  Upon delivery, at no additional cost above the bid price, have the following features and  configurations included as standard options:  The MFDs shall, upon delivery of the device, be able to meet the capabilities and functions              specified within this paragraph.  All scan, all print, all fax, all copy, basic inline finishing  functions. Printing is defined as but not limited to digital printing or reproduction output  to hardcopy from a digitalbased image or electronic document file, created in various  software programs, directly to a variety of media using ink, toner, inkjet, or other  dye/pigment based imaging system.  Printing functions will include the ability to select  various print settings such as single sided; double sided; enlargement/reduction; varying  paper sizes and orientation; various image control and quality settings such as color,  where applicable; gray scale, draft mode etc.   For the purposes of this Statement of Work,  Digital Printing does not include 3D printing. Faxing capability is defined as analogue fax  only.  Any other form of fax capability required by a customer will be specified at the time  of the task order.  DLA Document Services understands that any fax capability other than  analogue will be priced accordingly. Scan functions are defined as functions to include but  not limited to standard scanning and network scanning with full integration to standard  network infrastructure destinations, which comprises ScantoEmail, ScantoFolder, Scan toNetwork, ScantoServer and PC.  Full integration does not mean scanning to  proprietary backend content or document management systems supporting customized  indexing or metadata requirements. Scanned documents must be made available as a .TIF  and as a .PDF file format.  Copying is defined as reproduction output from hardcopy to  hardcopy to a variety of media using ink, toner, inkjet, or other dye/pigment based  imaging system.  Copy functions will include the ability to use an onboard automatic  document feeder or paten scan and provide for the selection of various document output  settings such as single sided, double sided, image enlargement/reduction, varying paper  sizes and orientation, various image control and quality settings such as color, where  applicable, gray scale, draft mode etc.  Basic inline finishing functions are defined as  document collation, document stapling, offset of finished sets, when requested, choice of  more than one output tray.  Finishing options may also include in line hole punch or  booklet making however, DLA Document Services understands that any finishing  capability other than basic, as defined in this paragraph will be priced accordingly.  9.1.4.2  Automatic Duplexing; Reversing Automatic Document Feeder with minimum 30 page  document capacity.   9.1.4.3    Operate correctly and efficiently using at least 50% or greater recycled 20 lb paper;  9.1.4.4  Devices with hard drives must have an encryption or overwrite capable Security Kit;  9.1.4.5  The default setting for device operation will be, 2 sided printing, gray scale print and the  default language setting shall be English.  9.1.4.6  Configure devices so the fax function is physically isolated from the network controller;  9.1.4.7   Configure devices Page Description Language (PDL) to support Adobe PS3, as well as  PCL5e or PCL6;  9.1.4.8  Provide uptodate software and drivers to include, but not limited to: print drivers and  web interface drivers.  9.1.4.9    Equipment must be capable of operating using standard U.S. office 120 volt 15 amp 60 Hz  AC electrical current or U.S. office 120 volt 20 amp 60 Hz AC electrical current.  In the  9.1.4.1 

9.1.4   

         

SOW FY142

event the later (20 amp) is offered, the Contractor will clearly identify these models in  proposals and in all price lists.  9.1.4.10  Preset/default to "draft" quality printing rather than "high" quality.  9.1.4.11  Desktop and server operating systems currently supported by Microsoft.   9.1.4.12    Provide uptodate software and drivers to include, but not limited to: 32bit and 64     architecture driver support and web interface drivers;  9.1.4.13  In the case of MFDs, will be delivered with all USB ports disabled, except the port used to  connect the device to a single computer, to prohibit the use of USB flash drives/thumb  drives;  9.1.4.14   If File Transfer Protocol (FTP) services capability exists, the device must have secure FTP  (SFTP)  functionality available;  9.1.4.15   Have changing device settings so that the device moves to "sleep mode" at the end of the  working day and on weekends.    9.1.4.16   Preset/default to toner efficient fonts.  Fonts such as Century Gothic, Garamond or Times  New Roman reduce toner costs over Arial.  9.1.4.17   Preset/default all MFDs to automatically go into sleep mode after 20 minutes of inactivity             and automatically go into hibernation after an hour of inactivity.    9.2  Provide devices for Volume Band 0 that, in addition to what is set forth at paragraph 9.1; also have these  features/capabilities/configurations.      9.2.1  Maximum Measurements:  Width 25" x Depth 25" x Height 23"  Desktop/tabletop device shall be small enough to fit on a desk or table comfortably without  dominating the desktop/tabletop surface.  Floor standing models are not acceptable;    9.2.2  Copy from/to multisized materials up to and including 8.5 x 14 paper;    9.2.3  Feeds from at least two (2) paper sources, one of which must be a bypass tray.    9.3  Provide devices for Volume Band 1 and above that, in addition to what is set forth at paragraph 9.1, also  have these features/capabilities/configurations:        9.3.1  At least 256 Megabytes of document management memory;    9.3.2  MultiPosition Stapler Finisher;    9.3.3  Floor standing with wheels (or cabinets provided as needed);    9.3.4  Copy from/to multisized materials up to and including 11 x 17 paper;     9.3.5  Feeds from at least three (3) paper sources one of which must be a bypass tray.    9.3.6  Preset/default output duplexing.    9.3.7  Preset/default output black and white printing on color devices.      9.4  Provide devices for Volume Band 2 and above that, in addition to what is set forth at paragraphs 9.1 and  9.3, also have these features/capabilities/configurations:      9.4.1    Feeds from at least four (4) paper sources one of which must be a bypass tray.    9.5  Provide an operator's manual written in English with each device.    9.6  Only classified devices can be placed on the SIPRNET.  Devices with hard drive shall be protected at the  highest level of classified material produced. 
 

   

Any one of the following conditions is acceptable for devices on Classified Networks:  9.6.1  Devices without hard drives ensure the MFD does not have an internal hard drive.  

SOW FY142

9.6.2 

Provide devices that have No Hard Drive  (See delivery instruction).  Removable Hard Drive (a removable hard drive is a hard drive the operator may easily remove, and  reinsert into the device on a reoccurring basis).   9.6.2.1 Any Volume Band that is used for classified processing in a physical environment NOT  approved for Open Secret Storage will require a removable hard drive so they can be removed and  locked in an approved container/room.  Provide devices that have a Removable Hard Drive  (See delivery instruction).  Any Volume Band that has a hard drive readily accessible and easily removable requires  that the MFD must have a mechanism to lock and prevent access to the hard drive. 

     

Provide devices that have a lockable cabinet door to prevent access to the Hard Drive    (See delivery instruction). 

Devices with hard drives using an encryption or overwrite capable Security Kit are cleared for use  with CLASSIFIED material; the contractor, working with the DLA Document Services COR and  designated government Information Assurance (IA) and security personnel, will remove any/all non volatile memory chips or cards, hard drives and surrender them to DLA Document Services (or its  assignee).    Note:  If the contracting officer has designated an assignee, the contractor's written verification must  include a validating signature from the designated assignee confirming receipt of the components.     10.0   NETWORK FUNCTIONALITY.  For those devices that shall be connected to a DOD local area network, the  contractor shall:    10.1  Devices shall be capable of being configured to comply with the current Defense Information Systems  Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide titled SPAN MultiFunction Device (MFD) and  Printer STIG (latest version and release), developed by DISA for the DOD.   URL for zip files of this DISA documents found at:  http://iase.disa.mil/stigs/index.html.     Note:  DOD policy prohibits the publishing of network configuration information, and therefore DOD  installations will not fill out preinstallation site surveys.  The required information will be provided  at time of installation by the local IT support.  Contractor shall supply onsite support during installation.  At time of installation, the end user IT  department shall be present for collaboration.    10.2 Provide technical and system analysis support and appropriate digital cards/products to successfully connect  devices to DLA Document Services' customer networks.    10.3 Provide, upon installation, two (2) hours of technical and analyst support to the agency network  administrator onsite for each digital/multifunctional unit installed.  Support may be requested for the  physical and software interface of the controller/device to the DLA Document Services' customer's network.   Support shall be provided for network configurations based on agency hardware/software and initial Digital  Site Survey provided prior to date of installation.    11.0 NETWORK SECURITY.  For those devices that shall be connected to a DOD local area network, the contractor  shall: 
 

SOW FY142

11.1   Warrant that the devices shall operate on and coexist on a network supporting any and all of the following:   Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4),   Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6),    A hybrid of IPv4 and IPv6.  11.2  Additional Network Security Requirements.  If the box is checked, the contractor shall provide devices that:     

11.2.1 NIAP:   Multifuctional Devices must be ISO/IEC 15408 (Common Criteria) certified using the 
National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) approved criteria. To be technically acceptable  all devices must meet the following two conditions:    11.2.1.1 Common Criteria Certification and Validation by one of two methods:     Products listed on the NIAP PCL  (ccevs.org/CCEVS_Products/pcl.cfm?tech_name=Multi+Function+Device)   have been evaluated and validated in accordance with previous provisions of the NIAP Common  Criteria Evaluation and Validation Scheme. Products on this list have been evaluated and  accredited at licensed/approved evaluation facilities in the U.S. for conformance to the Common  Criteria for IT Security Evaluation (ISO Standard 15408).        Products that have been evaluated and granted certificates (up through EAL4) under CCRA  partnering schemes are recognized by the NIAP/CCEVS; US Customers (accreditors, integrators,  etc.) may treat these mutuallyrecognized evaluation results as being equivalent. For the complete  list of products which have received Common Criteria certifications, please visit the Common  Criteria Portalhttp://www.commoncriteriaportal.org/products/). 
       11.2.1.2.  Compliance with existing NIAP Protection Profile standard.  Where the current standard  has been modified or changed by NIAP, MultiFunctional Device vendors/manufacturers will have  14 months from the date of NIAP Protection Profile standard modification/change to have new  models tested and certified by NIAP.  Devices certified under the previous NIAP Protection Profile  standard will be acceptable for up to 18 months after the implementation of the new NIAP  Protection Profile standard 

11.2.2 DIACAP:  Are capable of obtaining accreditation through the Department of Defense Information  Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP).  As part of this, the contractor agrees  to provide all requested information and work in good faith with DLA Document Services so the  DLA Document Services' customer(s) can expeditiously obtain DIACAP accreditation.  The  contractor further agrees that should the DLA Document Services' customer(s), after good faith  efforts, not obtain DIACAP accreditation, the contractor shall remove the device(s) at no  additional expense to the government to include, but not be limited to, waiving any and all early  or premature discontinuance/termination/cancellation/etc. fees.      [Information regarding DIACAP is found in DOD Department of Defense Information Assurance  Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) Instruction 8510.1 dated 10 November 2007.  http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/851001p.pdf].   11.2.3 SMARTCARD:  The contractor shall supply a SMARTCARD PKI Solution, which is compliant with  DOD CAC and NIST FIPS 201 (PIV) standards. The contractor shall provide card readers that are  capable of reading and processing all approved CAC and PIV cards.  The contractor shall maintain  compliance with DOD wide SMARTCARD and DOD PKI standards, and support all approved  physical cards during the full lease period.   

SOW FY142

  The contractor must produce certificates of compliance if requested.  CAC authentication is required for the following capabilities:     Scanning                 11.2.3.1 Equipment shall be capable of digitally signing emails using the senders                                     DOD PKI Certificate(s)  11.2.3.2 Equipment shall be capable of encrypting emails using the receivers DOD                           PKI Certificate(s)  11.2.3.3 Equipment shall be capable to scan to file on networked devices   NOTE: SIPRNET Devices are not compatible with the current CAC capabilities  11.2.4 Configured for installation at selected DOD or Federal Sites in accordance with the following:  The contractor shall (only applicable if checked): 
 

    Copying             

 

 

  NMCI   Provide networked equipment that is certified to operate on the Navy & Marine Corps  Intranet (NMCI) for the "Printer, Scanner and Fax" functions. Certification is determined by  being listed on the NMCI Certified Device List (CDL) at time of award. 
 

  ONENET   Provide networked equipment that is approved to operate on Outside the Continental United  States (OCONUS) Navy Enterprise Network (ONENET) for the "Printer, Scanner and Fax"  functions. This equipment must be listed on the Naval Network Warfare Command  (NETWARCOM) Approved Product List (APL) at time of award.  See Enclosure 2       U.S. Army Sites:  Provide devices that are configured for installation at U.S. Army Sites in  accordance with the following:   Office of the Secretary of the Army Memorandum, NETCESTIA, 1 Nov 05, Subject:  Army  Implementation of TwoFactor Network Authentication for User Accounts and Compliance  with Homeland Security Presidential Directive12  (HSPD12)   Army Regulation 252, Information Assurance, 23 March 2009, Chapter 45c(6) and  Chapter 412a (http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/pdf/r25_2.pdf)    Army CIO/G6 Message, SAISZA CIO/G, DTG 041939Z Feb 06, Subject:  Army Accelerated  Implementation of Common Access Card Cryptographic Network Logon, paragraph 2.           U.S. Air Force Sites:  Provide devices that are configured for installation at U.S. Air Force sites in accordance with  the MultiUser Information Systems guidance reference AFI 33202, Network and Computer  Security and in conjunction with AFSSI 8580 Remanence Security. See Enclosure 3    11.3  Enterprise Management Tool (if checked contractor shall provide):     11.3.1 Enterprise Management Capability tool that manages devices. A commercially available  management/monitoring software tool that will reside within the customers' network in order to 

SOW FY142

monitor, manage and generate usage to facilitate continued fleet optimization reports.  Configuration settings should be accomplished utilizing the .dlm format.    Enterprise Management Tool must use SNMP V3  The management tool must monitor meter reads, volume, usage, supplies consumed with  notification to order more and provide device uptime performance on networked output devices.     See paragraph 13.0 for associated requirements beyond the commercially available management/  monitoring software tool.    Note:  If a regulation cited in Paragraphs 10 or 11 is updated or revised, the contractor must comply with the  most current version of the regulation.    12.0   CONTRACTOR PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.   The contractor shall:    12.1   Assign a single point of contact to coordinate with the contracting officer and/or designated COR in all  aspects of this contract.  Quotes shall state the assigned point of contact's name, title, business address,  phone number and email address.    13.0   ADDITIONAL EXCEPTIONAL REQUIREMENTS.      If the box is checked, as part of its quoted price, the contractor shall:                           

SOW FY142

VOLUME BAND/CLIN STRUCTURE:    CLIN  Volume  Band  Description  Quantities 

     

VB0 

Low Volume Black and White or Color Desktop/Tabletop Devices:  Minimum 15 to maximum 24 pages per minute.  600 DPI or greater. (Applies to all  volume band 0 requirements).  Estimated maximum of 2,000 copies per month.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.   Networked Color MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, and Scan, Capabilities.                  

                       

0B 

0D 

                

Volume Band0 Devices  

Desktop/Tabletop Devices cannot be combined with VBs 15 below.  Low Volume Black and White or Color Devices:  Minimum 25 pages per minute B/W and a minimum 25 pages per minute Color. 600  DPI or greater with collating and staple finishing capabilities. (Applies to all volume band  1 requirements).  Estimated maximum of 5,000 copies per month for B/W and 2,000  copies per month for color.   Black and White standalone device.  Black and White standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.   Black and White standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including           .                       Networked Black and White, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional SIPRNET only.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                                          9    

 

VB1 

    001      

1A 

          

1A1 

                

          

1A2 

                

  002    

1B 

             2   

          

1B1 

                

          

1B2 

                

          

1B3 

                

          

1B4 

                

SOW FY142

          

1B5 

 Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                       Color standalone device.  Color standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.  Color standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                            Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device SIPRNET Only.   Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                                 Networked Color MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                      

                

          

1C 

                

          

1C1 

                

          

1C2 

                

          

1D 

                

          

1D1 

                

          

1D2 

                

          

1D3 

                

          

1D4 

                

          

1D5 

                

          

1E 

Option for ShortTerm Rental Devices:  VB         (target single VB)                         Not to exceed twelve (12) months per device.    Mid Volume Black and White or Color Devices:  Minimum 30 pages per minute or  greater B/W and a minimum 30 pages per minute Color.  600 DPI or greater with  collating and staple finishing capabilities.  (Applies to all volume band 2 requirements).   Estimated maximum of 10,000 copies per month for B/W and 5,000 copies per month  for color.  Black and White standalone device.  Black and White standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.                  

 

VB2 

          

2A 

          

2A1 

                

SOW FY142

          

2A2 

 Black and White standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including           .                       Networked Black and White, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional SIPRNET only.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                               Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                       Color standalone device.  Color standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.  Color standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                            Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device SIPRNET Only.   Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                               

                

          

2B 

                

          

2B1 

                

          

2B2 

                

          

2B3 

                

          

2B4 

                

          

2B5 

                

          

2C 

                

          

2C1 

                

          

2C2 

                

          

2D 

                

          

2D1 

                

          

2D2 

                

          

2D3 

                

          

2D4 

                

SOW FY142

          

2D5 

 Networked Color MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                      

                

          

2E 

Option for ShortTerm Rental Devices:  VB         (target single VB)                         Not to exceed twelve (12) months per device.    High Volume Black and White or Color Devices:  Minimum 40 pages per minute or greater B/W and a minimum 35 pages per minute  Color.  600 DPI or greater.  (Applies to all volume band 3 requirements).  Estimated  maximum of 20,000 copies per month for B/W and 10,000 copies per month for color. 

 

VB3 

          

3A 

Black and White standalone device.  Black and White standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.   Black and White standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including           .                       Networked Black and White, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional SIPRNET only.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                               Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                       Color standalone device.  Color standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities. 

                

          

3A1 

                

          

3A2 

                

          

3B 

                

          

3B1 

                

          

3B2 

                

          

3B3 

                

          

3B4 

                

          

3B5 

                

          

3C 

                

          

3C1 

                

SOW FY142

          

3C2 

Color standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                            Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device SIPRNET Only.   Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                                 Networked Color MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                      

                

          

3D 

                

          

3D1 

                

          

3D2 

                

          

3D3 

                

          

3D4 

                

          

3D5 

                

       

VB4 

HighVolume HighSpeed, Black and White or Color Devices:  Minimum 50 pages per  minute B/W, minimum 40 pages per minute Color.  600 DPI or greater. (Applies to all  volume band 4 B/W and all volume band 4 color requirements).  Estimated maximum  of 35,000 copies per month for B/W and estimated maximum of 20,000 copies per  month for color.  Black and White standalone device.  Black and White standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.   Black and White standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including           .                       Networked Black and White, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.                  

          

4A 

          

4A1 

                

          

4A2 

                

          

4B 

                

          

4B1 

                

          

4B2 

                

SOW FY142

          

4B3 

Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional SIPRNET only.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                               Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                       Color standalone device.  Color standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.  Color standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                            Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Color, MultiFunctional Device SIPRNET Only.   Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                                 Networked Color MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                      

                

          

4B4 

                

          

4B5 

                

          

4C 

                

          

4C1 

                

          

4C2 

                

          

4D 

                

          

4D1 

                

          

4D2 

                

          

4D3 

                

          

4D4 

                

          

4D5 

                

 

VB5 

HighVolume HighSpeed, Black and White Devices:  Minimum 55 pages per minute  with a maximum 70 pages per minute. 600 DPI or greater. (Applies to all volume band  5 requirements). Estimated maximum of 70,000 copies per month for B/W.  Black and White standalone device.                  

          

5A 

SOW FY142

          

5A1 

Black and White standalone device.  With Fax Capabilities.   Black and White standalone device.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including           .                       Networked Black and White, MultiFunctional Device.  With full Fax, Scan, Copy and Print Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  (Print Only)  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Fax) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.  With (Scan) Capabilities.  Networked Black and White MultiFunctional SIPRNET only.  Classified device capable of reproducing up to and including            .                               Networked Black and White MultiFunctional Device.   With full Fax, Scan, Copy, Print and Common Access Card (CAC)  Capabilities.                        

                

          

5A2 

                

          

5B 

                

          

5B1 

                

          

5B2 

                

          

5B3 

                

          

5B4 

                

          

5B5 

                

 

TOTAL 

                 

 
 

 

Estimated total for Short Term Rental Devices. 

                 

                                 

SOW FY142

CUSTOMER ACCEPTANCE FORM 
Activity Name:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Customer POC Phone Number:                    Contract Number:                                                                NOTE:  This document is required for all installations, relocations, maintenance services, deliveries and removals.                 Use back for multiple installations or removals.   Device  Manufacturer:  Serial Number:                Model #:          Customer Address:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Customer POC Email Address:                  

Training Date: (MM/DD/YYYY)          Service Location (Room):         

Service  Date: (MM/DD/YYYY):         

                   
 

 Installation                                                   Delivery of Supplies/Parts                   *  

 Relocation                                                 Removal (IAM Signatures required) 

 Maintenance     

            
 

            

  Other (Describe here or on Back):                        
     * IAM of Receipt of Hard Drive (Signature): 

* IAM of Receipt of Hard Drive (Print Name): 

                
Contractor Technician Name (Print): 

  
Technician Signature: 

               

  

Customer Accepting Receipt of device (Print): Must be the EMS  Customer Signature:   COR Manager, or designated representative.                     CLIN#:   Model #:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Serial Number:                                                                                                                                                                                     Service Location (Room):                                                                                                                                                                                 

Customer Acceptance Form

SOW FY142

CLIN#:   Model #:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Serial Number:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

 Service Location (Room):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

NOTE: This space below is for any action other than an installation, relocation, maintenance, delivery and/or removal.                                        

Customer Acceptance Form (continued)

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Government Product Accessibility Template for Multifunction Machines
Summary
Column one includes all the Sections of the Standard that may apply to any deliverable. The total number of provisions within each Section of the Standard is shown in parentheses.  Column two identifies the total number of provisions that typically apply to a deliverable of this type. Some of these may not be features of the vendor's deliverable. Conversely, others not noted may be features of the vendor's deliverable. If the deliverable includes additional features, the accessibility of these features must also be considered.  Column three is for general notes about the Sections of the Standard. Some apply to all deliverables and some are specific to the deliverable.  Column four is a summary of the vendor's response to applicable provisions and additional deliverable features from the Sections of the Standard.  Column five is where the vendor can note explanations for any of the preceding columns, e.g. there are differences between expected applicable provisions and actual product features. Total Number of Total Supported CFR 1194 Standard Number of Notes Please explain Provisions Sections Applicable Provisions Fully Partial Not
Section 1194.21 Software Applications and Operating Systems (12 provisions) This Section applies if the multifunction machine is connected to a computer and has application software.



12

Section 1194.22 Webbased Internet and Intranet Information and Applications (16 provisions)

0

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Section 1194.23 Telecommunications Products (14 provisions) These four provisions apply to input devices such as integral parts of printers (keypads, touchscreens and contact sensitive controls) as referenced in 1194.25(c), Multifunction machines generally do not include telephones that can be used for voice communication. Additional provisions from this Section would apply if the multifunction machine does include a telephone that can be used for voice communication. Section 1194.24 Video and Multi-media Products (5 provisions) 0

4

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Section 1194.25 SelfContained, Closed Products (13 provisions) Section 1194.26 Desktop and Portable Computers (4 provisions) 13 Multifunction machines do not typically have computer functions, but they often link to computers. Functional performance criteria always apply. If information, documentation, and support are to be provided by the vendor, then this Section applies.

1

Section 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria (6 provisions) Section 1194.41 Information, Documentation and Support (3 provisions)

6

3

Subpart B -- Technical Standards
Note: If there is a possibility that the provision applies, the default value is "Yes".     Column one is the full text of the provision from the Standard. Column two documents the agency's accessibility requirement based on common characteristics of the EIT deliverable. Place a Yes or No in this column based on program need and actual characteristics of your expected deliverable (i.e., Is this provision seen as applicable to the expected deliverable?) Column three provides explanatory information about the provision to help both the agency in determining applicability and the vendor in providing accessibility information. Column four is for the vendor to check off whether the deliverable meets, partially meets or does not meet the specific provision.

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
 Column five is for the vendor to provide an explanation of how the deliverable meets or does not meet the specific provision. It is also an opportunity to explain why a deliverable does not have an applicable feature or why it has a feature that was not identified as applicable.

Section 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems
Provision Text
(a) When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a keyboard where the function itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually. (b) Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified as accessibility features, where those features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable activated features of any operating system that are identified as accessibility features where the application programming interface for those accessibility features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer.

Applicable

Notes
This applies if the multifunction machine uses a QWERTY keyboard.

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully   Partially   No

Please explain

Yes

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(c) A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input focus changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that Assistive Technology can track focus and focus changes. (d) Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and state of the element shall be available to Assistive Technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text. (e) When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the meaning assigned to those images shall be consistent throughout an application's performance. (f) Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The minimum information that shall be made available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes. (g) Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes.   Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No In this requirement, the term "bitmap" refers to a broad number of image formats, such as .bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .tif and .svg.

  Fully   Partially   No

Yes

  Fully Yes   Partially   No   Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(h) When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user. (i) Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. (j) When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a range of contrast levels shall be provided. Self-scrolling and moving texts are considered animation. Yes   Fully   Partially   No This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(g). Yes   Fully   Partially   No See www.lighthouse.org/color _contrast.htm Yes This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(h). Other elements include turning graphics on and off or changing between images. This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.22(j) and 1194.25(i). This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.22(n). Yes   Fully   Partially   No

(k) Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

  Fully   Partially   No

Yes

(l) When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

  Fully   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Section 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications
Provision Text
(a) A text equivalent for every nontext element shall be provided (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content).

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully

Please explain

No

  Partially   No

(b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation. No

  Fully   Partially   No

(c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup. (d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet.

  Fully No   Partially   No   Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map. No   Fully   Partially   No (f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape. (g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables. No   Fully No   Partially   No   Fully   Partially   No (h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. (i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation No   Fully No   Partially   No   Fully   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.   Fully No   Partially   No (k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes. (l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with functional text that can be read by Assistive Technology. (m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with Section1194.21(a) through (l). (n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links. No   Fully   Partially   No (p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.   Fully No   Partially   No

Section 1194.23 Telecommunications products
Provision Text
(a) Telecommunications products or systems which provide a function allowing voice communication and which do not themselves provide a TTY functionality shall provide a standard non-acoustic connection point for TTYs. Microphones shall be capable of being turned on and off to allow the user to intermix speech with TTY use. (b) Telecommunications products which include voice communication functionality shall support all commonly used cross-manufacturer non-proprietary standard TTY signal protocols.

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?

Please explain

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(c) Voice mail, auto-attendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems shall be usable by TTY users with their TTYs. (d) Voice mail, messaging, autoattendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems that require a response from a user within a time interval, shall give an alert when the time interval is about to run out, and shall provide sufficient time for the user to indicate more time is required. (e) Where provided, caller identification and similar telecommunications functions shall also be available for users of TTYs, and for users who cannot see displays. (f) For transmitted voice signals, telecommunications products shall provide a gain adjustable up to a minimum of 20 dB. For incremental volume control, at least one intermediate step of 12 dB of gain shall be provided. (g) If the telecommunications product allows a user to adjust the receive volume, a function shall be provided to automatically reset the volume to the default level after every use.   Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No   Fully No   Partially   No   Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(h) Where a telecommunications product delivers output by an audio transducer which is normally held up to the ear, a means for effective magnetic wireless coupling to hearing technologies shall be provided. (i) Interference to hearing technologies (including hearing aids, cochlear implants, and assistive listening devices) shall be reduced to the lowest possible level that allows a user of hearing technologies to utilize the telecommunications product. (j) Products that transmit or conduct information or communication, shall pass through cross-manufacturer, non-proprietary, industry-standard codes, translation protocols, formats or other information necessary to provide the information or communication in a usable format. Technologies which use encoding, signal compression, format transformation, or similar techniques shall not remove information needed for access or shall restore it upon delivery. (k)(1) Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys shall comply with the following: Controls and Keys shall be tactilely discernible without activating the controls or keys.   Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(k)(2) Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys shall comply with the following: Controls and Keys shall be operable with one hand and shall not require tight grasping, pinching, twisting of the wrist. The force required to activate controls and keys shall be 5 lbs. (22.2N) maximum. (k)(3) Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys shall comply with the following: If key repeat is supported, the delay before repeat shall be adjustable to at least 2 seconds. Key repeat rate shall be adjustable to 2 seconds per character. (k)(4) Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys shall comply with the following: The status of all locking or toggle controls or keys shall be visually discernible, and discernible either through touch or sound.

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Section 1194.24 Video and multimedia products
Provision Text
(a) All analog television displays 13 inches and larger, and computer equipment that includes analog television receiver or display circuitry, shall be equipped with caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed captions from broadcast, cable, video-tape, and DVD signals. As soon as practicable, but not later than July 1, 2002, widescreen digital television (DTV) displays measuring at least 7.8 inches vertically, DTV sets with conventional displays measuring at least 13 inches vertically, and stand-alone DTV tuners, whether or not they are marketed with display screens, and computer equipment that includes DTV receiver or display circuitry, shall be equipped with caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed captions from broadcast, cable, videotape, and DVD signals.

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?

Please explain

  Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(b) Television tuners, including tuner cards for use in computers, shall be equipped with secondary audio program playback circuitry.   Fully No   Partially   No (c) All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain speech or other audio information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be open or closed captioned. (d) All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain visual information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be audio described. (e) Display or presentation of alternate text presentation or audio descriptions shall be userselectable unless permanent.

  Fully No   Partially   No

  Fully No   Partially   No   Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Section 1194.25 Self-contained, closed products
Provision Text
(a) Self-contained products shall be usable by people with disabilities without requiring an end-user to attach Assistive Technology to the product. Personal headsets for private listening are not Assistive Technology. (b) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully

Please explain

Yes

  Partially   No This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.22(p).   Fully   Partially   No

Yes

(c) Where a product utilizes touchscreens or contact-sensitive controls, an input method shall be provided that complies with Section1194.23 (k) (1) through (4).

Many multifunction machines have either mechanically operated controls and/or touchscreens. This requirement includes touchscreens and contact-sensitive controls that can be touched in any way; by the human body, a mouth stick, stylus, pencil, etc. This requirement is addressed in provisions 1194.25(c), 1194.26(a), and 1194.26(b).   Fully   Partially   No

Yes

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(d) When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does not require the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided. (e) When products provide auditory output, the audio signal shall be provided at a standard signal level through an industry standard connector that will allow for private listening. The product must provide the ability to interrupt, pause, and restart the audio at any time. (f) When products deliver voice output in a public area, incremental volume control shall be provided with output amplification up to a level of at least 65 dB. Where the ambient noise level of the environment is above 45 dB, a volume gain of at least 20 dB above the ambient level shall be user selectable. A function shall be provided to automatically reset the volume to the default level after every use. This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.26(c). Yes   Fully   Partially   No This requirement applies, if auditory instructions are provided to the operator. Yes Auditory output includes audio voice output, not audible tones such as beeps. This provision applies, if auditory output is provided through a speaker rather than a personal headset.

  Fully   Partially   No

  Fully   Partially   No

Yes

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(g) Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. Yes This requirement applies, if color is used in the display, touchpad or keypad. If the touchpad or keypad conforms to Section 1194.25(c) this requirement would not apply. This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.21(i). See www.lighthouse.org/color _contrast.htm Yes This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.21(j). LED's and illuminated buttons are not covered by this requirement. Yes This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.21(k) and 1194.22(j).

  Fully   Partially   No

(h) When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a range of color selections capable of producing a variety of contrast levels shall be provided.

  Fully   Partially   No

(i) Products shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

  Fully   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(j) (1) Products which are freestanding, nonportable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with the following: The position of any operable control shall be determined with respect to a vertical plane, which is 48 inches in length, centered on the operable control, and at the maximum protrusion of the product within the 48 inch length on products which are freestanding, non-portable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls. (j)(2) Products which are freestanding, nonportable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with the following: Where any operable control is 10 inches or less behind the reference plane, the height shall be 54 inches maximum and 15 inches minimum above the floor. (j)(3) Products which are freestanding, nonportable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with the following: Where any operable control is more than 10 inches and not more than 24 inches behind the reference plane, the height shall be 40 inches maximum and 15 inches minimum above the floor.

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(j)(4) Products which are freestanding, nonportable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with the following: Operable controls shall not be more than 24 inches behind the reference plane.   Fully Yes   Partially   No

Section 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers
Provision Text
a) All mechanically operated controls and keys shall comply with Section1194.23 (k) (1) through (4). No

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully   Partially   No

Please explain

(b) If a product utilizes touchscreens or touch-operated controls, an input method shall be provided that complies with Section1194.23 (k) (1) through (4). (c) When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does not require the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided.

  Fully No   Partially   No   Fully No   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(d) Where provided, at least one of each type of expansion slots, ports and connectors shall comply with publicly available industry standards.   Fully Yes   Partially   No

Subpart C -- Functional Performance Criteria
Section 1194.31 Functional performance criteria
Provision Text
(a) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for Assistive Technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided. (b) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for Assistive Technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided.

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully

Please explain

Yes

  Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
(c) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for Assistive Technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided. (d) Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided. (e) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for Assistive Technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided. (f) At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.   Fully Yes   Partially   No

  Fully Yes   Partially   No   Fully Yes   Partially   No   Fully Yes   Partially   No

SOW FY14 

Enclosure 1                                508 Compliance Document 
Subpart D -- Information, Documentation, and Support
Section 1194.41 Information, documentation, and support
Provision Text
(a) Product support documentation provided to end-users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request, at no additional charge. (b) End-users shall have access to a description of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in alternate formats or alternate methods upon request, at no additional charge. (c) Support services for products shall accommodate the communication needs of end-users with disabilities.

Applicable

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement?
  Fully

Please explain

Yes

  Partially   No   Fully

Yes

  Partially   No   Fully

Yes

  Partially   No

 

Enclosure 2                       ONENET Requirements 
ADDITIONAL SPECIFICATION/PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ONENET  Theses exceptional requirements shall be added or supersedes the SOW Template referenced paragraphs.  2 GENERAL INFORMATION. 

SOW FY141

Award of this this contract will be made to lowest priced, technically acceptable offer contingent upon  the contractor's proposed MFD model(s) achieving Navy Operational Designated Approval Authority  (ODAA) Certification and Accreditation and being added to the ONENET Approved Products List (APL).  See enclosure (2a).  If a device cannot obtain Navy ODAA Certification and Accreditation (C&A), the contractor shall remove  the device at no additional expense to the government to include, but not be limited to, waiving any and  all early or premature discontinuance, termination, cancellation, etc. fees.   In all cases, ONENET devices being installed or serviced must involve Network Operations and Security  Center (TNOSC) or Local Network Service Center (LNSC) qualified personnel.  The contractor will supply a  technical representative to assist the TNOSC or LNSC qualified personnel with either the servicing or  device installation.  Contractor personnel must be escorted at all times by TNOSC or LNSC personnel.  At any point where a classified drive is deemed unrepairable on site, it must be disposed of and  destroyed by the agency IAW the National Security Agency Guidelines.   These procedures can be found  by accessing http://www.nsa.gov/cmc/.  Under no circumstances will any classified drive be removed  from the government facility by the contractor.  Prior to removing the device from government property, the contract will remove any/all memory chips  or cards, hard drives, and other internal parts as deemed prudent by the Customer and surrender them  to the Navy customer activity's Information Assurance Manager or their designated assignee. A  Customer Acceptance (CA) form will be signed and include the following:  (1) Activity Name, (2) Model  and Serial numbers; (3) date of removal; (4) removal locations (to include building numbers, room  numbers, (5) Navy IAM's or their designated assignee's name, phone numbers, email addresses and  their validating signature confirming receipt of the components. (CA form attached). 

MAINTENANCE (Including Operational Standards & Performance).  The contractor shall: 
Maintain each device at a minimum 95% monthly available rate based on the 40 hour work week.   Maintaining the devices includes, but is not limited to, preventive maintenance, service calls,  troubleshooting, repairs, repair parts, labor, and travel and network connectivity.  Provide service technician support Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. ­ 4:30 p.m. local time,  except local holidays.  The contractor shall provide a service technician who speaks English.   Respond to work stoppage situations within Four (4) business hours of a service call.  A telephone call  (unless it results in solving the problem) shall not be deemed as an acceptable service response.  The  service technician shall call the key operator within an hour to discuss service problem and time of  arrival.  It is estimated that 10% of service calls will be classified as "work stoppage" across the total  device population on a yearly basis.  Respond to nonwork stoppage situations within Eight (8) business hours of a service call.  A telephone  call (unless it results in solving the problem) shall not be deemed as an acceptable service response.  The  service technician shall call the key operator within an hour to discuss service problem and time of  arrival.     In the case of devices cleared for CLASSIFIED material, where the contractor's repair technicians do not  possess a Department of Defense (DOD) issued security clearance equal to or higher than the 

Enclosure2                        ONENET Requirements 

SOW FY141

classification of the device being serviced, physical access to the CLASSIFIED device will require that the  contractor technician be escorted by Government sponsor with security clearances equal to or higher  than the classification of the device being serviced.  The Government sponsor will ensure all Classified  Hard Drives have been removed and verify all jammed or stuck papers have been removed prior to  allowing access to the device.  Contractor repair technicians can obtain a DOD issued security clearance  through the Defense Security Service Industrial Clearances Division.  Information for obtaining a DOD  Security Clearances can be initiated at http://www.dss.mil/disco/indus_disco_process_applicant.html.   The cost and processing of the Security Clearance will be borne by the contractor.  Inform the designated COR within two (2) business days of the determination that device is non repairable and provide comparable replacement device within five (5) business days from receipt of an  order from the Contracting Officer.   9.0 ONE NET MODEL SUBSTITUTIONS.  The contractor shall:   11.2.4.1 No model substitutions will be made without first receiving ODAA Certification and  Accreditation. See Enclosure (2a).  11.0

DEVICE CONFIGURATIONS.  The contractor shall:  
9.1.4.10  Have electrical power capability and power cable/plug as checked:   120 VAC         
 

11.2 Provide devices for all Volume Bands required by ONENET: 

 60Hz 

 

 220 VAC     

 50Hz 

 

Identify Power Plug Part Number Required                                          

11.0  NETWORK SECURITY REQUIREMENTS    SMARTCARD/COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC) CAPABILITY (OPTIONAL):  The contractor shall  supply a SMARTCARD PKI Solution, which is compliant with DOD CAC and NIST FIPS 201 (PIV)  standards. The contractor shall provide card readers that are capable of reading and  processing  all approved CAC and PIV cards.  The contractor shall maintain compliance with  SMARTCARD standards, and support all approved physical cards during the full lease period.     11.2.3.4 CAC is Not Required by ONENET, but if CAC is requested, CAC enabled devices            shall be provided.  The CAC capability must be internal to the Device.    NOTE:   Host Foreign Nationals using a nonDOD CAC or smart card may not be compatible  with DOD approved CAC readers. If the use of Host Foreign Nationals using a non DOD CAC or smart card is a local requirement you must notify the DLA Document  Services' Customer Support Representative at time of the order request and provide  information on the type of card that will be use.  CLASSIFIED SIPRNET TOKENS  

ONENET NETWORK SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  The contractor shall: 
It is preferred that the contractor provide the IA validation package within 15 business days of  receipt of notice of award. (See enclosure 2a)  However, if the contractor is unable to complete the actions on its own, the contractor may  ship the proposed device(s), for IA validation testing, to DLA Document Services HQ,  Bldg. 410, NSA Mechanicsburg, PA  17055; at no cost to the government, within 15 

Enclosure2                        ONENET Requirements 

SOW FY141

business days of notice of award. Device(s) sent for testing must be configured to  accept standard USA power requirements of 120 volts and 60 Hz AC. DLA Document  Services will notify the contractor when to ship.  Upon satisfactory device configuration in accordance with the SPAN STIG and the ONENET  Security Validator Team approval, the contract must deliver, in softcopy, a step by  step guide on how the configuration was achieved within 15 days to the DLA  Document Services EMS IA Representative, COMM: 7176051770, DSN: (312)430 1770 who will review the package for completeness and content.    NOTE:   DOD policy prohibits the publishing of network configuration information, and  therefore DOD installations will not fill out preinstallation site surveys.  The  required information will be provided at time of installation by the local IT support.  Contractor shall supply onsite support during installation.  At time of installation,  the end user IT department shall be present for collaboration. 

  Continue to Enclosure 2a for additional ONENET requirements.                       
 

Enclosure 2a                        Additional ONENET Requirements 
ONENET CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION PROCESS FOR NETWORKED DEVICES 

SOW FY141 

1. All requests for networked printing devices must begin with the customer contacting their DLA Document  Services Regional ONENET Coordinator and providing their device requirements.   2. DLA Document Services will then submit the solicitation to industry vendors via FEDBIZOPS.  Award will be  made to the lowest priced, technically acceptable offeror.  If the lowest priced, technically acceptable  offeror's proposed device(s) is(are) not currently on the ONENET Approved Products List (APL), the device(s)  shall undergo and complete the Navy ODAA accreditation process before delivery may start. Failure to  achieve accreditation will result in cancelation of the contract at no cost to DLA Document Services.  3. Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services' Equipment Management Solutions (EMS) Headquarters  Office will notify PEOEIS (ONENET CM) that a device has been selected and needs to be added to the APL.  PEOEIS will then document the requirement on an Enterprise Request for Change (RFC) in ONENET's web based change management tool, CMPro, and submit the RFC to C10F for validation and approval.   4. Once the contractor is notified of the award they may proceed with their development of the IA Validation  package, or ship the proposed device(s) to DLA Document Services HQ, Bldg. 410, NSA Mechanicsburg, PA   17055; at no cost to the government, for IA compliance verification. Device(s) sent for testing must be  configured to accept standard USA power requires of 120 volts and 60 Hz AC and must be shipped within 15  business days of notification of ECCB's approval to proceed. For Vendor IA Evaluation packages include a DISA  STIG Implementation Guide and STIG Compatibility Matrix 

     5. The IA validation packages will be delivered to the DLA Document Services EMS IA Representative, COMM:  7176051770, DSN: (312)4301770, who will review the package for completeness and content. Once the  review by the DLA Document Services EMS IA Representative is complete he will forward the package on to  the ONENET Security Validator Team, care of the ONENET CM Lead at ONENET_APL@navy.mil.  6. Vendor/contractor engineering assistance shall be made available to the ONENET Security Validator Team  while the Retina scan results are being evaluated via phone and email. The contractor will exercise due  diligence to mitigate and resolve any questions and/or concerns raised during the evaluation process.  7. The ONENET Security Validator Team will develop and submit the DIACAP package to the Navy ODAA for  approval.    8. If the contractor fails to gain Navy ODAA Approval to Operate (ATO) for their proposed devices within 120  calendar days from the submission of their IA package, DLA Document Services will not proceed with  installations at customer locations and DLA Document Services may terminate the contract.  9. Once the device(s) achieves Navy ODAA ATO, the contractor shall be notified and delivery will commence.  10. All ONENET networked devices shall be preconfigured IAW the SPAN STIG to meet ONENET requirements at  delivery.      11. As applicable, the IA validation packages shall consist of the following in table provided below. For questions  and clarification contact DLA Document Services EMS IA Representative, COMM: 7176051770, DSN:  (312)4301770 before starting the IA package   

product_name_STIG XYZS _Compatability_Matrix MFD_Implementation_

Enclosure 2a                        Additional ONENET Requirements 
Local Printers Vendor Spec Sheet Hardware Firmware Version Contact Information for personnel with device access DISA SPAN STIG findings Retina Scan (soft copy of printable report and .rtd session files) Vendor STIG Implementation guide manual Common Criteria Evaluation Report FIPS 140-2 Compliance Certificate for all CAC enabled devices X X X X X Networked Printers X X X X X All MFDs X X X X X

SOW FY141 

X

X X X

                     

Enclosure 3                AIR FORCE Requirement 

SOW FY141

AIR FORCE CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION PROCESS FOR NETWORKED DEVICES  AFI 33202, Network and Computer Security and in conjunction with AFSSI 8580 Remanence Security  (Continued from paragraph 11.2.4)   11.2.4.1 Hardware Evaluation:  DLA Document Services will perform equipment testing in accordance with Air Force  Network Printer and Multifunction Printer Settings and Requirements.  Within 5 business  days of the issuance of a task order, the contractor shall deliver the proposed MFDs for  each proposed model to DLA Document Services HQ, Bldg. 410, NSA Mechanicsburg,  Mechanicsburg, PA  17055 for testing, at no cost to the government.  The point of contact  for the testing will be provided upon award.  Estimated time for testing is 15 business  days.  Testing shall be performed by the DLA Document Services Information Technology  Division in coordination with the contractor's assistance.  The Contractor shall provide at  no additional cost, onsite engineering assistance and other support necessary to configure,  setup, and test the equipment as needed.      The contractor will collaborate with DLA Document Services to develop the testing  evaluation package.  If all MFDs pass the testing identified for the Air Force Network Printer  and Multifunction Printer Settings and Requirements and in accordance with our COTS  Hardware Certification Process, DLA Document Services Contracting Office will provide the  Contractor with a Memorandum of Compliance for the applicable MFDs.  In the event that  not all proposed MFD's pass the testing, DLA Document Services reserves the decision to  not recommend the devices to be submitted for award.    Prior to the completion of the DLA Document Service's testing period, the contractor will  develop and provide the MFD Implementation Guide.  The Implementation Guide provides  for stepbystep instruction and screen shots to configure the MFDs in accordance with the  testing results per the Air Force Network Printer and Multifunction Printer Settings and  Requirements.  DLA Document Services will exercise due diligence to mitigate and resolve  any questions and/or concerns raised during the evaluation process.  If DLA Document  Services does not declare MFDs compliant for any reason, they will not proceed with  installation at customer locations and DLA Document Services may terminate the contract.    11.2.4.2 Installation:  The contractor shall install and configure MFDs at customer locations in accordance with  the MFD Implementation Guide and Connecting Certified Hardware to a Network/Enclave  Guide.  These devices are to be configured for installation at U.S. Air Force sites with Simple  Network Management Protocol version 3 (SNMPv3) and in accordance with Air Force  standard security and resource management configurations for network printers and  MFDs, listed on the Infostructure Technical Reference Model (ITRM).    All AF devices shall be preconfigured to meet AF requirements prior to delivery for  installation.  The contractor shall deliver preconfigured.  Contractor must have IA support  available at time of installation.       

Enclosure 3                AIR FORCE Requirement 

SOW FY141

11.2.4.3:  Connecting Hardware to a Network/Enclave Guide  Getting devices connected to the AFGIG still requires a local security review by the  Information Assurance Manager (IAM) and documentation of the change added to the  specific enclave C&A packages prior to network connection.      DIACAP and Air Force process:     Any change to a system (to include enclaves) must be reviewed by the IAM (IAWDODI  8510.01).   References: DODI 8510.01, November 28, 2007    The DOD IS IAM has primary responsibility for maintaining situational awareness and  initiating actions to improve or restore IA posture.     The IAM continuously monitors the system or information environment for security  relevant events and configuration changes that negatively impact IA posture and  periodically assesses the quality of IA controls implementation against performance  indicators such as security incidents, feedback from external inspection agencies (e.g.,  IG DOD, Government Accountability Office (GAO)), exercises, and operational  evaluations. In addition the IAM may, independently or at the direction of the CA or  DAA, schedule a revalidation of any or all IA controls at any time.     The IAM shall annually provide a written or DOD PKIcertified digitally signed statement  to the DAA and the CA that indicates the results of the security review of all IA controls  and the testing of selected IA controls as required by Reference (a). The review will  either confirm the effectiveness of assigned IA controls and their implementation, or it  will recommend: changes such as those described in subparagraph 6.3.4.2.; a change in  accreditation status (e.g., accreditation status is downgraded to IATO or DATO); or  development of an IT Security POA&M. The CA and DAA shall review the IAM statement  in light of mission and information environment indicators and determine a course of  action that will be provided to the concerned CIO or SIAO for reporting requirements  described in Reference (a). The date of the annual security review will be recorded in the  SIP. A DAA may downgrade or revoke an accreditation decision at any time if risk  conditions or concerns so warrant.       The IAM must assess the change to determine if any change in the security posture of  the system has occurred. If the change negatively impacted the security posture the  IAM must initiate the reaccreditation process for the system (or enclave).      If the change does not negatively impact the security posture the IAM must document  the change and state that there is no effect on the security posture and sign a letter  attesting to that fact.  This letter or communication must be included in the current  C&A package and be made available to the AFDAA and the AFCA for informational  purposes.        DODI 8510.01 the IAM shall annually provide a written or DOD PKIcertified digitally  signed statement to the DAA and the CA that indicates the results of the security  review.       

Enclosure 3                AIR FORCE Requirement 

SOW FY141

In the future when all systems and enclaves are in EITDR and using the IT Lean/SISSU  process; the IAM letter/statement will be entered into Phase 4 of the IT Lean process in  EITDR and be available for the AFDAA and AFCA to review.      Until EITDR has the Phase 4 capabilities in place follow the process indicated below.      The IAM Emails the signed letter to: afnetops/daa@barkdale.af.mil and  afca/ev@us.af.mil   Or    The IAM sends DOD PKIcertified digitally signed statement to  afnetops/daa@barkdale.af.mil and afca/ev@us.af.mil    


CLIN Volume Band Networked Non-Networked Command Base Location Bldg./Floor Number Room/Pole Number Address City State Zip Code Contact Name Contact Phone Contact Email Notes / Message
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP KINSER BLDG.107 RM 107 BLDG. 107 RM 107, CAMP KINSER URASOE OKINAWA 901-2100 Carma Sheehan 81-6117-37-4899 carma.sheehan@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP COURTNEY BLDG.4408 WIC OVERSEAS CAMP COURTNEY, BLDG. 4408, RM 5/6 CAMP COURTNEY URUMA OKINAWA 904-2200 Natalie Spitler 81-6117-22-9424 natalie.spitler@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM  CAMP FOSTER BLDG.5674 WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP FOSTER, BLDG. 5674 US BASE CAMP FOSTER GINOWAN OKINAWA 904-0100 Kathy Moss 81-6117-45-9302 kathy.moss@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM  CAMP ZAMA BLDG.681 CAMP ZAMA, BLDG. 502, KANAGAWA-KEN,  ZAMA-SHI ZAMA KANAGAWA 252-0027 Rita-Lynn Dumlao 81-46-407-8960 rita-lynn.a.dumlao.ctr@mail.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM YOKOTA BLDG. 4018  UNIT 5074 BLDG. 4018, YOKOTA AB FUSSA TOKYO 197-0000 Kendra Kelly 81-3117-55-5490 kendra.kelly.ctr@us.af.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM MISAWA BLDG. 696 1 CHOME HIRAHATA MISAWA-SHI, BLDG. 696 MISAWA MISAWA AOMORI 033-0000 Carmela Williams 81-3117-66-5596 carmela.williams.ctr@us.af.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM SASEBO BLDG.138  US NAVAL BASE, DDYJ DETACHMENT SASEBO BLDG. 138 SASEBO, TATEGAMI-CHO, SASEBO-SHI SASEBO NAGASAKI 857-0063 Casey Moebius 81-956-50-8781 jmerrill@choctawcontracting.com
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM ATSUGI BLDG. 984  RM114  BHC ATSUGI, BLDG. 984 RM 114, NAF ATSUGI, ATSUGI KICHI, AYASE-SHI, KANAGAWA-KEN, US BASE US NAVAL ATSUGI KANAGAWA 252-1101 Jennifer Villanueva 81-467-63-4559 jennifer.villanueva@med.navy.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM IWAKUNI BLDG. 577 1F  RM137  BLDG. 636, MCAS BOX 14100, KANYUU-CHI, MISUMI-CHO, IWAKUNI IWAKUNI YAMAGUCHI 740-0029 Sheila Ricafrente 81-827-79-4928 sheila.v.ricafrente@usmc-mccs.org
0002 1B x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM YOKOSUKA BLDG.3365 RM326 BLDG. 3365 RM 326, YOKOSUKA NAVAL BASE, YOKOSUKA YOKOSUKA KANAGAWA 238-0001 Lee Dorsey 81-46-816-9426 lee.dorsey@med.navy.mil
0002 1B x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM KADENA BLDG.428  UNIT 5268 FM 270, DAVIS AVE, BLDG. 428 KADENA AB, OKINAWA KADENA OKINAWA 904-0000 Michelle Viramontes 81-6117-32-9427 jmerrill@choctawcontracting.com

CLIN Volume Band Networked Non-Networked Command Base Location Bldg./Floor Number Room/Pole Number Address City State Zip Code Contact Name Contact Phone Contact Email Notes / Message
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP KINSER BLDG.107 RM 107 BLDG. 107 RM 107, CAMP KINSER URASOE OKINAWA 901-2100 Carma Sheehan 81-6117-37-4899 carma.sheehan@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP COURTNEY BLDG.4408 WIC OVERSEAS CAMP COURTNEY, BLDG. 4408, RM 5/6 CAMP COURTNEY URUMA OKINAWA 904-2200 Natalie Spitler 81-6117-22-9424 natalie.spitler@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM  CAMP FOSTER BLDG.5674 WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM CAMP FOSTER, BLDG. 5674 US BASE CAMP FOSTER GINOWAN OKINAWA 904-0100 Kathy Moss 81-6117-45-9302 kathy.moss@okinawa.usmc-mccs.org
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM  CAMP ZAMA BLDG.681 CAMP ZAMA, BLDG. 502, KANAGAWA-KEN,  ZAMA-SHI ZAMA KANAGAWA 252-0027 Rita-Lynn Dumlao 81-46-407-8960 rita-lynn.a.dumlao.ctr@mail.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM YOKOTA BLDG. 4018  UNIT 5074 BLDG. 4018, YOKOTA AB FUSSA TOKYO 197-0000 Kendra Kelly 81-3117-55-5490 kendra.kelly.ctr@us.af.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM MISAWA BLDG. 696 1 CHOME HIRAHATA MISAWA-SHI, BLDG. 696 MISAWA MISAWA AOMORI 033-0000 Carmela Williams 81-3117-66-5596 carmela.williams.ctr@us.af.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM SASEBO BLDG.138  US NAVAL BASE, DDYJ DETACHMENT SASEBO BLDG. 138 SASEBO, TATEGAMI-CHO, SASEBO-SHI SASEBO NAGASAKI 857-0063 Casey Moebius 81-956-50-8781 jmerrill@choctawcontracting.com
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM ATSUGI BLDG. 984  RM114  BHC ATSUGI, BLDG. 984 RM 114, NAF ATSUGI, ATSUGI KICHI, AYASE-SHI, KANAGAWA-KEN, US BASE US NAVAL ATSUGI KANAGAWA 252-1101 Jennifer Villanueva 81-467-63-4559 jennifer.villanueva@med.navy.mil
0001 1A x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM IWAKUNI BLDG. 577 1F  RM137  BLDG. 636, MCAS BOX 14100, KANYUU-CHI, MISUMI-CHO, IWAKUNI IWAKUNI YAMAGUCHI 740-0029 Sheila Ricafrente 81-827-79-4928 sheila.v.ricafrente@usmc-mccs.org
0002 1B x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM YOKOSUKA BLDG.3365 RM326 BLDG. 3365 RM 326, YOKOSUKA NAVAL BASE, YOKOSUKA YOKOSUKA KANAGAWA 238-0001 Lee Dorsey 81-46-816-9426 lee.dorsey@med.navy.mil
0002 1B x WIC OVERSEAS PROGRAM KADENA BLDG.428  UNIT 5268 FM 270, DAVIS AVE, BLDG. 428 KADENA AB, OKINAWA KADENA OKINAWA 904-0000 Michelle Viramontes 81-6117-32-9427 jmerrill@choctawcontracting.com
