PL 105-220, 1998 HR 1385 PL 105-220, enacted on August 7, 1998, 112 Stat 936 codified as: Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. § 794d

WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998
SEC. 508. ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY. (a) REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.-(1) ACCESSIBILITY.-(A) DEVELOPMENT, PROCUREMENT, MAINTENANCE, OR USE OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.--When developing, procuring, maintaining, or using electronic and information technology, each Federal department or agency, including the United States Postal Service, shall ensure, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the department or agency, that the electronic and information technology allows, regardless of the type of medium of the technology-(i) individuals with disabilities who are Federal employees to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and (ii) individuals with disabilities who are members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal department or agency to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by such members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities. (B) ALTERNATIVE MEANS EFFORTS.--When development, procurement, maintenance, or use of electronic and information technology that meets the standards published by the Access Board under paragraph (2) would impose an undue burden, the Federal department or agency shall provide individuals with disabilities covered by paragraph (1) with the information and data involved by an alternative means of access that allows the individual to use the information and data. (2) ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS.-(A) IN GENERAL.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, the Architectural and Transportation

Barriers Compliance Board (referred to in this section as the 'Access Board'), after consultation with the Secretary of Education, the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of Commerce, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, the Secretary of Defense, and the head of any other Federal department or agency that the Access Board determines to be appropriate, including consultation on relevant research findings, and after consultation with the electronic and information technology industry and appropriate public or nonprofit agencies or organizations, including organizations representing individuals with disabilities, shall issue and publish standards setting forth-(i) for purposes of this section, a definition of electronic and information technology that is consistent with the definition of information technology specified in section 5002(3) of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1401(3)); and (ii) the technical and functional performance criteria necessary to implement the requirements set forth in paragraph (1). (B) REVIEW AND AMENDMENT.--The Access Board shall periodically review and, as appropriate, amend the standards required under subparagraph (A) to reflect technological advances or changes in electronic and information technology. (3) INCORPORATION OF STANDARDS.--Not later than 6 months after the Access Board publishes the standards required under paragraph (2), the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation and each Federal department or agency shall revise the Federal procurement policies and directives under the control of the department or agency to incorporate those standards. Not later than 6 months after the Access Board revises any standards required under paragraph (2), the Council shall revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation and each appropriate Federal department or agency shall revise the procurement policies and directives, as necessary, to incorporate the revisions. (4) ACQUISITION PLANNING.--In the event that a Federal department or agency determines that compliance with the standards issued by the Access Board under paragraph (2) relating to procurement imposes an undue burden, the documentation by the department or agency supporting the procurement shall explain why compliance creates an undue burden. (5) EXEMPTION FOR NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.--This section shall not apply to national security systems, as that term is defined in section 5142 of the ClingerCohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1452). (6) CONSTRUCTION.-(A) EQUIPMENT.--In a case in which the Federal Government provides access to

the public to information or data through electronic and information technology, nothing in this section shall be construed to require a Federal department or agency-(i) to make equipment owned by the Federal Government available for access and use by individuals with disabilities covered by paragraph (1) at a location other than that where the electronic and information technology is provided to the public; or (ii) to purchase equipment for access and use by individuals with disabilities covered by paragraph (1) at a location other than that where the electronic and information technology is provided to the public. (B) SOFTWARE AND PERIPHERAL DEVICES.--Except as required to comply with standards issued by the Access Board under paragraph (2), nothing in paragraph (1) requires the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of a specific accessibility-related peripheral device at a workstation of a Federal employee who is not an individual with a disability. (b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.--The Administrator of General Services and the Access Board shall provide technical assistance to individuals and Federal departments and agencies concerning the requirements of this section. (c) AGENCY EVALUATIONS.--Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, the head of each Federal department or agency shall evaluate the extent to which the electronic and information technology of the department or agency is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities described in subsection (a)(1), compared to the access to and use of the technology by individuals described in such subsection who are not individuals with disabilities, and submit a report containing the evaluation to the Attorney General. (d) REPORTS.-(1) INTERIM REPORT.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, the Attorney General shall prepare and submit to the President a report containing information on and recommendations regarding the extent to which the electronic and information technology of the Federal Government is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities described in subsection (a)(1). (2) BIENNIAL REPORTS.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, and every 2 years thereafter, the Attorney General shall prepare and submit to the President and Congress a report containing information on and recommendations regarding the state of Federal department and agency compliance with the requirements of this section, including actions regarding individual complaints under subsection (f).

(e) COOPERATION.--Each head of a Federal department or agency (including the Access Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the General Services Administration) shall provide to the Attorney General such information as the Attorney General determines is necessary to conduct the evaluations under subsection (c) and prepare the reports under subsection (d). (f) ENFORCEMENT.-(1) GENERAL.-(A) COMPLAINTS.--Effective 2 years after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, any individual with a disability may file a complaint alleging that a Federal department or agency fails to comply with subsection (a)(1) in providing electronic and information technology. (B) APPLICATION.--This subsection shall apply only to electronic and information technology that is procured by a Federal department or agency not less than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998. (2) ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINTS.--Complaints filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed with the Federal department or agency alleged to be in noncompliance. The Federal department or agency receiving the complaint shall apply the complaint procedures established to implement section 504 for resolving allegations of discrimination in a federally conducted program or activity. (3) CIVIL ACTIONS.--The remedies, procedures, and rights set forth in sections 505(a)(2) and 505(b) shall be the remedies, procedures, and rights available to any individual with a disability filing a complaint under paragraph (1). (g) APPLICATION TO OTHER FEDERAL LAWS.--This section shall not be construed to limit any right, remedy, or procedure otherwise available under any provision of Federal law (including sections 501 through 505) that provides greater or equal protection for the rights of individuals with disabilities than this section.


NIH Child Care Subsidy Program
                                                             Statement of Work (SOW)

1.    Introduction and Overview

The intent of this Statement of Work (SOW) is to secure a contractor that will provide administrative services for the NIH Child Care Subsidy
Program.

2.    Background 

The National Institutes of Health is soliciting proposals from qualified organizations to administer Agency’s child care tuition assistance
program.  On November 12, 2001, President George W. Bush signed H.R. 2590 into Public Law 107-67 which includes permanent legislation
authorizing the use of appropriated funds by executive agencies to provide child care services for Federal civilian employees.  This legislation
permits Federal agencies to administer a program to assist their lower income Federal employees with the costs of child care.  The contractor
will administer the program on behalf of the agency for the period of October 1, 2010 through September 30, 2015.

The NIH Child Care Subsidy program was approved by Dr. E. Zerhouni, NIH Director, as a three year pilot program in September 2004.  The program
was launched by the Office of Research Services (ORS) in June 2005.  Due to the success of the pilot program, the NIH Child Care Subsidy program
was approved as ongoing program under the ORS Division of Amenities and Transportation Services in September 2007.

In FY 2009, 124 NIH Federal Employees were approved to receive the tuition assistance from the NIH Child Care Subsidy program and 162 children
were enrolled in the program.

3.    Scope

The goal is to assist lower income Federal employees with the cost of child care services.  Tuition assistance can reduce the amount of tuition
parents pay for child care by providing subsidies, directly to the child care provider.  By providing assistance with child care cost, the
employee can obtain quality dependable child care.

4.    Objectives

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) requires a contractor to demonstrate it has the ability to effectively manage the NIH Child Care Subsidy
program.  In responding to this request, a contractor must demonstrate its ability to perform the following services:

    • Handle all administrative tasks associated with the NIH Child Care Subsidy program appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner.

    • Maintain confidentiality of all the information contained child care subsidy applications.

    • Determine the eligibility of the NIH Federal Employee

    • Determine the eligibility of the licensed/regulated child care provider to receive Federal funds

      Notify the Federal employee and the approved child care provider of the amount of the tuition assistance that each family will receive and
      the effective dates

    • Review monthly invoices for the tuition assistance amounts and provide payment to the approved child care provider in a timely manner

    • Provide to the NIH monthly reports









5.    Requirements/Tasks




    • The NIH seeks a contractor who is knowledgeable in providing child care subsidy(ies) to individuals and has knowledge of the NIH Child Care
      Subsidy Program (see NIH Child Care Subsidy at:  http://does.ors.od.nih.gov/childcare/cc_subsidy.htm.)  

    • The contractor is required to have experience in working with the Federal Government and experience in distributing child care tuition
      assistance.

    • The contractor will maintain independent financial database to manage and distribute NIH Child Care Subsidy tuition assistance.
    • The contractor will notify the NIH Federal Employee and approved child care provider of eligibility and amount of tuition assistance within
      10 business days of receiving a completed application.

    • The contractor will determine the eligibility of the applicant by requiring and reviewing the following documentation:

    o NIH Form #2897 Policies of the NIH Child Care Subsidy Program

    o OPM Form 1643 Child Care Subsidy Applicant Form

    o OPM Form 1644 Child Care Provider Information for the Child Care Subsidy/ Program for Federal Employees

    o Form SF-50 (Verification of NIH Employment)

    o Two most recent pay statements for each parent or guardian

    o A copy of the most recent Federal income tax returns for each parent or guardian

    o A copy of the child care provider's current license or statement of compliance with State and/or local child care regulations

    • The contractor will insure the NIH Federal Employee understands if whatever reason he/she is no longer a NIH Federal employee, he/she must
      notify the contractor immediately to terminate participation in the subsidy program.

    • The contractor will determine the eligibility of the child care provider to receive Federal funds (all must comply with all applicable
      licensing and/or other regulatory requirements) by:

   1) Requiring each child care provider to submit a copy of current licenses and any statement of compliance from anybody charged with
      regulating that provider;

   2) Requiring child care provider to submit their taxpayer identification numbers; and

   3) Insuring that licensed child care providers understand that if, for whatever reason, the provider is no longer licensed or subject to
      regulatory oversight or is not in compliance with applicable regulations, the provider will immediately notify the contractor and the
      Federal employee whose child is enrolled in the child care program.  In such cases, the provider will no longer be permitted to receive the
      tuition subsidy.

    • The contractor will review monthly invoices for the tuition assistance amounts from the approved child care providers, and provide payment
      if appropriate, based on the invoiced amount no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the invoice.

    • The contractor will pay the tuition assistance directly to the approved child care provider, and not the NIH Federal employee.

   1) Ensure that the child care provider submits a written invoice on a monthly basis, to the contractor.

   2) Invoices that are submitted more that 60 days after the end of that month will not be eligible for payment.

   3) Tuition assistance will be quoted as weekly amounts and the invoices must be prepared using full week amounts unless the child leaves the
      child care provider’s program during a particular week.

    • The contractor will notify the Project Officer 60 calendar days prior to the program going to a waitlist status.

    • The contractor will provide on request the name and address of each approved child care provider that receives tuition assistance from the
      NIH Child Care Subsidy program.

    • The contractor will provide the agency with monthly reports for tax purposes if payments do not qualify for the DCAP exclusion.

    • The contractor will determine eligibility for the program on an annual basis.  Employees who do not submit re-determination information by
      the annual May 1st deadline will be removed from the program and may be placed on the subsidy program waiting list or be required to re-
      apply for the program.


    • The contractor must have appropriate safeguards established and in place to protect Personal Indentifying Information that is obtained in
      the regular course of business;

    • The contractor must have personnel assigned to perform tasks through this SOW.

    • 508 Compliance: Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that Federal agencies' electronic and information technology is accessible
      to people with disabilities. This courseware product must be Section 508 conformant. Specifically, the end product must be conformant with
      all applicable provisions, including:
      • 1194.21   Software Applications and Operating Systems
      • 1194.22   Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications
      • 1194.31   Functional performance criteria
      • 1194.41   Information, documentation, and support
      These provisions can be found at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/standards.htm.
    • Rules of Behavior

      The contractor employees shall comply with the NIH Information Technology General Rules of Behavior at:
      http://irm.cit.nih.gov/security/nihitrob.html.

    • Confidential Treatment of Sensitive Information

      The Contractor shall guarantee strict confidentiality of the information/data that it is provided by the Government during the performance
      of this contract.  The Government has determined that the information/data that the vendor will be provided during the performance of the
      task order is of a sensitive nature.  Disclosure of the information/data, in whole or in part, by the vendor can only be made after the
      vendor receives prior written approval from the Contracting Officer.  Whenever the vendor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling
      of information/data under the contract, the vendor shall obtain a written determination from the ETSO Program Manager.

    • Quality Assurance Plan

      The contractor must have an establish quality assurance plan that meets the needs of the Government as outlined in the SOW.


6.    Deliverables

    • The contractor will issue quarterly reports to the NIH on the status of the NIH Child Care Subsidy program.  Reports will contain the
      following information, and will be due on the fifteenth day of the month following the quarter:

   1) The Name and NIH Institute of the employee

   2) The amount of tuition assistance disbursed in a given month

   3) The number of children enrolled whose parents receive the tuition assistance

   4) The number of NIH Federal employees from the agency who qualified for a subsidy and who are receiving the subsidy

   5) The total family income of each family that receives a tuition subsidy

   6) The amount of the weekly tuition subsidy for each recipient

   7) The remaining balance of the agency’s funds




    • The contractor will issue quarterly reports which will contain the following information and be due the fifteen day following the end of
      the month:

   1) The number of total applications for the month

   2) The number of application in process

   3) The number of new tuition assistance subsidies

   4) The number of applicants who were ineligible

   5) The number of applicants who were denied assistance and why

   6) Names of NIH Federal employees who may reach the $5,000 maximum tuition reimbursement in the next quarter

7.    Source

    • http://olpa.od.nih.gov/actions/public/session1/pl107-67.asp

    • http://does.ors.od.nih.gov/childcare/cc_subsidy.htm

    • http://main.opm.gov/Employment_and_Benefits/WorkLife/FamilyCareIssues/ChildCare_Subsidy/index.asp

    • http://www.opm.gov/Employment_and_Benefits/worklife/officialdocuments/handbooksguides/childcare_legislation/index.asp

    • http://opm.gov/Employment_and_Benefits/WorkLife/OfficialDocuments/HandbooksGuides/Childcare_Legislation/p-law.asp







8.    Government-Furnished Property



      Government will not provide any furnished property to the contractor.  The contractor must provide a suitable location in order to perform
      the tasks listed above.




9.    Security



    • Information Security Training

      If the contractor interfaces with the NIH intranet, the contractor will meet all HHS Information Security Requirements.  HHS policy
      requires contractors/subcontractors receive security training commensurate with their responsibilities for performing work under the terms
      and conditions of their contractual agreements.  The contractor shall ensure that each contractor/subcontractor employee has completed the
      NIH Computer Security Awareness Training course at:  http://irtsectraining.nih.gov/ prior to performing any task order work, and thereafter
      completing the NIH-specified fiscal year refresher course during the period of performance of the task order.

    • Contractor’s Official Responsible for Information Security

      The Contractor shall include in the "Information Security" part of its Technical Proposal the name and title of its official who will be
      responsible for all information security requirements should the vendor be selected for an award.

    • Personnel Security Responsibilities

      The contractor shall perform and document the actions identified in the "Employee Separation Checklist"
      (http://nitaac.nih.gov/downloads/ciosp2/Employee_Separation_Checklist.doc) when a contractor employee terminates work under this contract.
      All documentation shall be made available to the Project Officer and/or Contracting Officer upon request.




10.   Place of Performance



      Contractor must be accessible to the Project Officer, Contract Officer, NIH Federal Employees, and the child care provider by postal mail,
      telephone, fax, and email.  The Contractor must appear in person at the request of the Project Officer and/or Contract Officer.




11.   Period of Performance

      The contract will be a Firm-Fixed Contract with (1) base year and (4) option years.

      Base:       October 1, 2010 to September 30, 2011

      Option 1:   October 1, 2011 to September 30, 2012

      Option 2:   October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013

      Option 3:   October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014

      Option 4:   October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015




12.   Evaluation Criteria



      30%   Key Personnel qualifications and experience in administering similar programs

      25%   Past Performance in administering this program

      25%   Technical and Management Approach to implementation of tasks and deliverables stated

      20%   Cost/Price must be within ± 10% of Fair Market value














