PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT FORTHE MILITARY SURFACE DEPLOYMENT AND DISTRIBUTION COMMAND
INTEGRATED COMPUTERIZED DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM (ICODES) NEXT GENERATION FY14-FY18

29 April 2014

1

This page is intentionally left blank

2

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT MILITARY SURFACE DEPLOYMENT AND DISTRIBUTION COMMAND INTEGRATED COMPUTERIZED DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM Table of Contents SECTION 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 TITLE DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES DELIVERABLES SERVICE DELIVERY SUMMARY GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED AND CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED EQUIPMENT GENERAL INFORMATION SECURITY NON-DISCLOSURE OF DATE/INFORMATION CONTRACT TRANSITION Appendices A B C D E F G H I J ACRONYMS APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS GOVERNMENT FURNISHED HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT SYSTEM APPLICATION DESCRIPTION SYSTEM REQUREMENTS DESCRIPTION SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT DESCRIPTION WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS EXAMPLE AFTER ACTION REPORT GOVERNMENT ACCEPTANCE TEST PROCESS

5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0

3

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT INTEGRATED COMPUTERIZED DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM NEXT GENERATION FY14-18

VISION: To provide reliable and trusted surface transportation information to the Command and to our customers. MISSION: The Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC) provides global surface deployment and distribution services to meet the nation's objectives. SDDC is the Army component of the United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) Transportation Component Commands, which includes Military Sealift Command and Headquarters (HQ), Air Mobility Command (AMC). 1.0 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES 1.1 Background. USTRANSCOM selected the current system to be the Department of Defense (DoD) migration system from the Automated Air Load Planning System to the Integrated Computerized Deployment System for planning and managing cargo placement within marshalling yards and surface conveyances. The current system is a joint decision-support system developed to assist users with the staging and load-planning requirements for multiple military and commercial modes of transportation. It was developed under contract to the Department of Defense by CDM Technologies and Tapestry Solutions. The system incorporates intelligent tools for staging, conveyance load planning and multi-modal planning designed and implemented in compliance with the principles of a serviceoriented architecture and operating within a collaborative environment. The system enables users to plan and track cargo stowage for air, ocean, rail, and truck in a single system that affords the capability of one time entry of the data. It enables the joint community to easily create exchange and interpret cargo movement plans through a single software application. Other features assist users by providing high quality alternative solutions to complex load planning problems. The system integrates multiple knowledge-based expert systems, data storage, and a graphical user interface within a distributed and collaborative operational environment providing global services to the operating forces. Some parts of the software, specifically Integrated Cooperative Decision-Making (ICDM), are claimed to be proprietary to Tapestry Solutions thereby limiting the Government's ability to freely use, disclose, or modify the software. The purpose of this acquisition is to maintain the capabilities of the current system and replace the ICDM proprietary code with a solution ensuring Government Purpose Rights of all deliverables. The current Enterprise hardware and software environments (Production, Staging, Testing, and Training) are hosted within SDDC's Common Computing Environment (CCE). Another SDDC team, comprised of system and data base administrators, manages the CCE. The CCE is virtualized in order for SDDC systems to share resources for the Command. In addition, the contractor will

4

develop a stand-alone desktop configuration that is compatible with specified operating systems. The desktop configuration must operate either connected to or disconnected from the network. 1.2 Scope. The scope of this contract consists of designing, developing, documenting, testing, and implementing a software solution that provides, as a minimum, the system functionality reflected in Appendix E and Appendix F, with a minimum of Government Purpose Rights. The contract also includes the following: update and maintain software and enhance automation capabilities, maintain/sustain system operations, analyze system changes, and build capabilities within SDDC's automated system. The contractor shall coordinate with the Government to ensure all activities are well synchronized and integrated with other SDDC transportation management efforts. The Performance Work Statement (PWS) includes the following task areas, and can be considered as two primary categories: A. Overall Contract and Project Management Task Area 1: Contract Level and Project Management B. Program Support Task Area 2: Provide System Functionality Task Area 3: Sustainment Task Area 4: Enhancements Task Area 5: Configuration Management Task Area 6: Information Assurance (IA) Task Area 7: Common Development Environment (Reserved) Task Area 8: Deployment Support Module (Reserved) Task Area 7 and Task Area 8 are reserved for potential use and may be added and negotiated during the life of this contract. These Reserved tasks will be to add potential new capability or new technology. The Government Contracting Officer, and Contracting Officer's Representative/Alternate Contracting Officer's Representative (COR/ACOR) are the points of contact regarding decisions on Government requirements and priorities. Unless otherwise specified in this PWS, all days designated are business days. All tasks shall be performed in accordance with (IAW) all regulations and guidelines as shown in Appendix B and clauses included in the contract. 1.3 Specific Tasks. 1.3.1 Task 1: Contract Level and Project Management. Task 1 Period of Performance: Contract Start Date throughout life of the contract.

Page 5 of 68

This task consists of the functional activities relating to the administration and management of this effort. The contractor shall provide project management and oversight of all projects and tasks within the scope of this contract. The contractor shall provide oversight of all projects within the scope of this contract and shall provide and prepare documents such as point papers, briefings, and meeting minutes related to the status and performance of projects.

1.3.1.1 Subtask 1: Quarterly Status Report (QSR). The contractor shall provide a quarterly Status Report, expected to be a high level Executive Summary, no more than two pages with attachments as required. The QSRs shall be provided to the COR/ACOR to be due on the first business day in January, April, July, and October of each year. The QSR shall describe the technical approach and management controls employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements throughout contract execution. The contractor shall prepare and sustain a milestone schedule that defines all tasks, durations, timelines, resources, and dependencies for all projects worked on this contract. The milestone schedule shall be created in Microsoft Project and provided quarterly as part of the QSR. The milestone schedule shall be maintained and kept up-to-date to identify all in-progress and planned projects, software releases (routine and complex) and tasks as they progress to completion. The contractor shall ensure the schedule includes each of the lowest level tasks not exceeding four weeks duration and each lowest level task, being dependent on the start or finish of another task. The schedule shall reflect the contractor's most realistic timelines in order to synchronize other SDDC efforts. The QSR shall contain the milestone schedule as described above, and shall also contain the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ A brief synopsis of the efforts completed, deliverables provided, conferences/trips conducted or attended during the reporting period Risk assessment and mitigation recommendations Proposed activities NOT included in the milestone schedule Actual and projected other direct cost (ODC) expenditures Monthly report of hours/employee for labor hour tasks

Deliverable: QSR due first business day of Jan, Apr, Jul and Oct of each year. 1.3.1.2 Subtask 2: Program Management Reviews (PMRs). The contractor shall conduct PMRs 6 months and 11 months after contract award. After Gov't acceptance of new development, the contractor shall conduct PMRs during March and September of each FY. The PMR's typically last one day. The contractor shall present status, progress, recommendations, concerns, and hands on functional review for mature capability in the development of any tasks or documentation described within this PWS. The PMR shall reflect resolution to prior PMR actions items, new action items, record discussion activity, decisions made, date, locations, attendees, and a copy of the presentation slides used. The contractor shall provide the draft PMR slides to the COR and Government Program Manager Page 6 of 68

(PM) no later than (NLT) two business days prior to the meeting. The contractor shall provide final slides, to include the milestone schedule, at the scheduled meeting. The contractor shall provide the PMR minutes NLT five business days after the meeting. Deliverable: Draft PMR slides due NLT 2 business day prior to meeting and final PMR slides at the meeting. Deliverable: PMR minutes NLT 5 business days after meeting. 1.3.1.3 Subtask 3: Trip Reports. The contractor shall submit trip reports to the COR/ACOR within five business days upon completion of travel. Trip reports shall include the following: traveler's name, trip purpose, location, length of trip, individuals contacted during trip, synopsis of all discussions, future actions identified, decisions made, and/or issues of concern arising during trip. Travel is anticipated in support of PWS tasks 1.3.2.6 and 1.3.5.3, however, is not all inclusive. Travel may be required within the Contiguous United States (CONUS) and Outside CONUS (OCONUS). The table below is an estimate of the annual travel requirements. Location CONUS Estimated Trips 3 Estimated Days 5 Estimated People 3

Deliverable: Trip reports due NLT 5 business days after travel completion. 1.3.1.4 Subtask 4: Employment Status Report. The contractor shall ensure all personnel assigned to this contract meet the minimum requirements specified in the contractor's proposal, IAW the generic position descriptions provided in the contractor's proposal. The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer (CO) and the COR in writing of any changes to personnel within three business days after information is known. The contractor shall provide an employee status report (listing/spreadsheet) containing names and labor categories of personnel supporting the tasks identified in the PWS. The initial report shall be provided within 30 business days after contract start date. Deliverable: Report due NLT 30 business days after contract start. 1.3.1.5 Subtask 5: Contractor Management Report (CMR). The contractor shall report ALL contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this contract for Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command via a secure data collection site. The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the following web address http://www.cmra.army.mil/.

Page 7 of 68

Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30. While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2014. Contractors may direct questions to the help desk at: http://www.cmra.mil. Deliverable: Report due NLT 31 Oct of each year. 1.3.2 Task 2: Develop System Functionality Task 2 Period of Performance: Completed 16 months after Contract Start Date 1.3.2.1 Subtask 1: Analysis/Design. The contractor shall analyze available Government artifacts from the current software to include but not limited to: source-code base, system requirements and design documents, Extensible Mark-up Language schemas/Extensible Schema Definition files, diagrams, interface and service agreements. 1.3.2.1.1 The contractor shall construct a design strategy to develop a software solution that provides, at a minimum, the system functionality reflected in Appendix E and Appendix F. Contractor may choose to "re-use" existing artifacts or code, but is not obligated to do so. The contractor shall provide a Draft Software Design Document (SDD) 85 calendar days after contract start. The contractor shall provide a Program Design Review (PDR) 90 calendar days after contract start. The contractor shall provide a final SDD, 30 calendar days after Government provides comments to contractor. The contractor shall provide a Draft Work Breakdown Schedule (WBS) 90 calendar days after contract start. The contractor shall provide a final WBS, 30 calendar days after Government provides comments to contractor. Deliverable: Deliverable: Deliverable: Deliverable: Deliverable: Draft SDD due 85 calendar days after contract start. PDR due 90 calendar days after contract start. Final SDD due 30 calendar days after Gov't comments received. Draft WBS due 90 calendar days after contract start. Final WBS due 30 calendar days after Gov't comments received.

1.3.2.2 Subtask 2: Development. The contractor shall develop a secure solution utilizing widely accepted industry standard practices and techniques that can be easily scaled within in an "n-tiers" (data access layer, business access layer, and graphical user interface) environment. The system developed shall include each application (Appendix E) and its requirements as annotated in (Appendix F). The contractor shall provide Production Candidate for Government Acceptance Test (GAT) 16 months after contract start. The Program Management Office (PMO) will coordinate a GAT to ensure Subject Matter Expert (SME) endorsement for the developed software (See Appendix J). The developer shall fix any SME-identified software problems that would result in mission failure if implemented before the developed software is considered Government accepted. The developer, PMO and SMEs will decide upon courses of actions and delivery schedules to remedy

Page 8 of 68

any software problems that do not directly impact mission success. The contractor shall provide Government Accepted Production Software 19 months after contract start. Deliverable: Production Candidate for GAT due 16 months after contract start. Deliverable: Gov't Accepted Production Software due 19 months after contract start. 1.3.2.3 Subtask 3: Documentation. The contractor shall provide and maintain separate documents and guides that accurately reflect the proposed as well as implemented solutions from both a technical and functional user perspective. The contractor shall provide Draft Documentation and User Guides 16 months after contract start. The contractor shall provide Final Documentation and User Guides 19 months after contract start. Deliverable: Draft documents and guides due 16 months after contract start. Deliverable: Final documents and guides due 19 months after contract start. 1.3.2.4 Subtask 4: Implementation. Government acceptance of the developed software must be achieved prior to implementation (see 1.3.2.2). The contractor shall ensure that the developed solution is configured and deployed as prescribed within the CCE service level agreement and complies with DoD IA policies, procedures and regulations. Any Category I (CAT I) vulnerabilities or conflicts with other code within the CCE are considered to be major defects. 1.3.3 Task 3: Sustainment.

The contractor shall maintain, to include "bug fixes", application software, tools, capabilities, servers, interfaces and databases, for the application, and related functionality in support of the user community: SDDC Directorate of Operations (G3), Army G4, AMC Directorate of Logistics (A4), Navy 436, United States Marine Corps Systems Command, USTRANSCOM and the Government PMO. The contractor shall maintain and update documentation on the system architecture and of existing interfaces, data and software on a routine/continuous basis. The four Enterprise Environments (Production, Staging, Testing, and Training) are part of SDDC's CCE. Therefore, the program receives operational System Administrator (SA) and Database Administrator support from the CCE's support team, the Enterprise Integration Program (EIP). The contractor shall support the EIP team with any application-specific commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), configuration, and/or application software requirements within the four environments. The contractor shall provide and maintain the development and test environments. The EIP team does not support the environments, but may provide technical advice regarding virtualization or tools that are required within the CCE.

Page 9 of 68

1.3.3.1 Subtask 1: Sustain and Maintain Deployed System Applications Support hardware environments: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Solaris 10 (and higher) UNIX servers Virtualized server environments Windows 2008 (and higher) servers Storage Area Network devices IA Vulnerability Assessments Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs)

The contractor shall support the configurations below:

Enterprise Configuration The contractor shall provide enterprise configuration as web-based and available through the CCE on the Electronic Transportation Acquisition (ETA) website (https://eta.sddc.army.mil). The contractor shall provide continual updates to the reference library and conveyances. Desktop Configuration Install on a Personal Computer Work Station that is disconnected from the network. However, a network connection allows sharing through the Information Repository (IR) and reference data is updated through the Enterprise Server. For estimation purposes, there are currently at least 1,800 desktop configuration licenses. Resident Server Configuration Server configured to reside and run a local version of Enterprise Suite for training, austere and operational environments. Currently, there are servers residing at the following locations: Blount Island Command, Jacksonville, Florida; Camp Johnson, Jacksonville, North Carolina; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Newport News, Virginia; and Fort Lee, Virginia. The contractor shall ensure the following applications and underlying services continue to support the staging and load-planning functionality and related business rules: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Single Load Planner Conveyance Estimator (CE) Conveyance Builder Collaborative Information Workspace Administrator Data Cleanser Data Manager (DM) Conveyance Repository (CR) Hand-Held Terminal (HHT) Administrator Page 10 of 68

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

IR Break bulk Tool Terminal Management Module Transportability Analysis Report Generator Cargo Symbol Manager

A description of the above applications is listed in Appendix E and the environment of each application is listed in Appendix G. The contractor shall update the applications and underlying services to support changes to the ICODES information technology or business environments and related business rules. The contractor shall meet with the COR, the Government ICODES PM and/or the Government's Configuration Manager (GCM) to discuss current capabilities and prioritize any proposed changes to existing Configuration Control Board (CCB) priorities. 1.3.3.1.1 Sustain Capabilities. The contractor shall sustain the software and applications developed and delivered to the Government under this contract, and shall include, but not be limited to, the following sustainment activities: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ COTS. Oracle star-schema database. Maintain authentication to system capabilities/homepage through SDDC's single sign-on solution, ETA. Maintain approximately 50 aircraft/230 configurations (+/- 10%) in ICODES CR. Add approximately one new aircraft. Update 15-20 aircrafts. Maintain approximately 297 ships (+/- 10%) in ICODES CR. Add approximately five new ships. Update 35 ships. Maintain approximately 226,918 railcars (+/- 10%) in ICODES CR. Update 10 railcars. Maintain approximately 58 reference libraries (+/- 10%) in ICODES DM. Maintain Shared Object Library. Maintain HHT .cab file included with the HHT Integration package. Maintain the existing software code-base for ICODES to include the following: code repositories; build environment; and agent rules. System help files. Access and approval of user accounts. Manage, monitor, and maintain the incoming and outgoing interface agreements listed below: Analysis of Mobility Platform (AMP) AMP Seaport Simulation Tool Page 11 of 68

Table of Organization and Equipment (TOE) Modification TOE Transportation Infrastructure Network Builder Type Unit Characteristics Global Air Transportation Execution System (GATES)-Air GATES-Surface Cargo Movement Operations System Logistics Module Marine Air Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Deployment Support System-II (MDSS-II)Air MDSS-II-Surface Transportation Coordinators' Automated Info for Movement System II-(TC-AIMS II)-Air TC-AIMS II-Surface Cargo-Max USTRANSCOM Relational Data Management 1.3.3.1.2 Sustain Documentation. The contractor shall sustain and update system documentation, to include database, system user, and software application documentation after each release. Documentation shall be reviewed in April and September by the Government to address any required changes; i.e., Known Bug Reports (KBR), CE Installation Guide, Desktop Installation and SA Guide, HHT Installation and SA Guide, and User Manuals. The contractor shall provide a KBR and application/installation guides NLT 5 business days prior to each code deliverable. The contractor shall provide a Quarterly Newsletter, no more than 2 pages shall contain a review of accomplishments, i.e., announcements, release notes, frequently asked questions for the quarter. The Quarterly Newsletter shall be updated and attached to the QSR for the Government PMO review. The contractor shall be required to provide an After Action Report (AAR) after every outage to the Government PMO, to indicate start and stop time, reason for outage, and solution within 24 hours after action is complete. The contractor shall use the Enterprise Change Control Tool (CCT) to capture and automate system outages. The CCT is an application within Serena Business Management (SBM) with capabilities to capture the information for an outage and automate after-action reporting. A sample AAR is provided at (Appendix I). Deliverable: Deliverable: Deliverable: deliverable. Deliverable: AAR due NLT 24 hours after action is complete. KBR due 5 business days prior to each code deliverable. Application/Installation Guides due NLT 5 business days prior to each code Quarterly Newsletter due first business day in Jan, Apr, Jul and Oct.

1.3.3.2 Subtask 2: Disaster Recovery (DR) Environment/ Planning. 1.3.3.2.1 Maintain Disaster Recovery Environment.

Page 12 of 68

The contractor shall complete all required application configurations to ensure the software is installed and configured correctly to operate at SDDC's DR site. The DR site is located at a separate Government facility where the contractor shall access the system(s) remotely. The contractor shall install/configure application software at the DR site within one calendar day of installing/configuring the same software on the Production site to ensure operationally current software. Deliverable: Software Install due 1 calendar day after installation/configuration at Production site.

1.3.3.2.1.1 On-site Contingency Support (Optional) The contractor shall provide support to the Government during contingency or emergency operations IAW approved DR and contingency operations plans. The contractor shall ensure resources/key personnel are available throughout the planned/scheduled emergency IAW the established plan (see paragraph 1.3.2.2.3).

1.3.3.2.2 Disaster Recovery/Contingency Plan. The contractor shall update the plan no more than twice a year and provide the plan to the Government PMO/COR for DR and/or contingency operations in coordination with the enterprise Disaster Recovery Exercise (DRE) solution and SDDC's CCE. The DR/Contingency plan shall include: crisis emergency management (onsite and offsite) (technical and functional); DR; pre and post emergency operations requirements; and fail-over management. Deliverable: Update DR/Contingency Plan no more than twice a year within 10 days after notice received. 1.3.3.2.3 Exercise Operations. The contractor shall participate in the bi-annual SDDC Directorate of Information Management (G6) DRE. The exercise is an opportunity to ensure the plan is executable. The contractor shall provide one technical and one functional participant in support of the system's DR/Contingency plan. Exercises are conducted typically during a one-week period, during normal work hours, and no more than twice a year. 1.3.3.3 Subtask 3: System Support. 1.3.3.3.1 Contractor Development Environment. The contractor shall provide a controlled and restricted facility to build, store and maintain the development network environment. The contractor's development environment shall contain all developmental products and services, to include databases necessary to conduct development activities within the environment. The contractor's development environment shall be locked Page 13 of 68

down IAW Defense Information System Agency (DISA) STIGs and remain fully patched. The contractor will perform monthly scanning to check for patch compliance and will provide a patch compliance report to the programs IA Security Officer. Deliverable: Patch Compliance Report due monthly. 1.3.3.3.2 Government Testing Environment. The contractor shall support the Common Development Environment (CDE) (Quality Assurance) testing environment, to include, but not limited to tuning and performing backups, database tuning and backups, and system patching. The contractor shall work with the SDDC G6 IA staff to ensure compliance with current IA guidance (see PWS Task 1.3.6). The contractor shall be responsible for loading all application and COTS software within the testing environment. 1.3.3.3.3 Common Production Environment (CPE). The contractor shall provide a support role to the Enterprise Integration Program EIP team in monitoring server and database performance, ensuring connectivity, and complying with all security and Certification and Accreditation (C&A) requirements in the Enterprise environments. The contractor shall participate in enterprise change management processes. The contractor shall identify and document current and planned interface, data, software or technical changes. The contractor shall introduce proposed software, interface and technical changes to the Contractor's Configuration Manager for promotion and implementation of those changes (see PWS Task 1.3.4). The contractor shall test and troubleshoot applications after CCE outages/upgrades, typically scheduled during non-duty hours. The contractor shall coordinate with the EIP team if they discover any issues after the outage. The contractor shall assist the EIP team to restart services to return the system back to normal operations. Typical CCE maintenance outages occur on alternating Sundays, usually twice each month. 1.3.3.4 Subtask 4: Tier II/III Help Desk Support. The contractor shall provide Tier II/III help desk support 24X7, 365 days a year for emergency support and system outages. The contractor shall respond to Tier II/III trouble tickets generated by initial contact from Tier I helpdesk, managed by a separate contract. Once the trouble tickets are received, the contractor shall log problem status in to Siebel, the current SDDC ticketing database. The contractor shall provide the software licensing code generator to Tier I help desk for the purpose of tracking Oracle Personal database licenses. The contractor shall be responsible for all functional and technical helpdesk calls/notices received from Tier I. (The historical average is 78-111 monthly). The contractor shall respond to the initial request within one hour of notification by Tier I. The contractor shall record in Siebel the detailed resolution for the Tier I escalated ticket within 48 hours after initial receipt to the Tier II/III helpdesk; Tier II/III will provide enough detail for Tier I personnel to be able to resolve the same problem in the future without escalation. The contractor shall provide a System Problem Report with a Page 14 of 68

resolution strategy or a System Change Request for any tickets that cannot be resolved with 48 hours of initial notification to the Tier I help desk. 1.3.3.5 Subtask 5 Training. The contractor shall provide training to the user community in the operation of the software suite of tools, necessary system support functions, as well as planning, re-planning, cargo staging, and yard management practices. 1.3.3.5.1 Maritime Software Training. The contractor shall provide one instructor for a 2-week training course, (Course Number 8CF26/822-F25) at the United States (U.S.) Army Transportation School, Fort Eustis, VA. The course scope is to create and deliver load plans including reports and diagrams imposed by SDDC. Students will use the Single Load Planner and related modules of the developed software to develop the load plans and perform related tasks. The contractor shall coordinate approval from the PM/COR/ACOR prior to conducting training. Course materials shall be provided by the Transportation School. 1.3.3.5.2 Basic Software Training.

The contractor shall provide one instructor for a 2-week training course, Basic (Course Number 8C-F44/553-F19) at the U.S. Army Transportation School, Fort Eustis, VA. The course scope is to create and deliver a basic understanding of the developed software. Students will become familiar with the reports and diagrams, imposed by SDDC, within all of the various modules of the developed software. The contractor shall coordinate approval from the PM/COR/ACOR prior to conducting training. Course materials shall be provided by the Transportation School.

1.3.3.5.3 Mobility Warrant Officer Basic Training. The contractor shall provide one instructor for a 2-week training course, Mobility Warrant Officer Basic (Course Number 8C-882A) at the Technical Logistics College, Fort Lee, VA. The Contractor shall receive approval from the PM/COR prior to conducting training. Course materials shall be provided by the Transportation School. 1.3.3.5.4 User Training.

The contractor shall provide user training to the user community as determined by the Government. The contractor shall travel to CONUS locations to support such training. Training is typically 3 ­ 4 business days. 1.3.4 Task 4: Enhancements.

Page 15 of 68

The Contractor shall enhance the software based on System Change Requests (SCRs) as coordinated by the Program Management Office (reference Task 1.3.5.2). The Government will contract this enhancement effort on a labor hour basis. 1.3.4.1 Subtask 1: Enhance Capabilities. Automated information systems require changes as functional requirements and operations change. Upon coordination from the Government PM, the contractor shall develop new solutions for the user community, to include custom databases, new/updated interfaces, web pages, reports, and applications to streamline or supplement SDDC business processes. The contractor Project Manager shall participate via teleconference, in the monthly Information Needs Meeting, with the COR/ACOR and the Government PMO to review the status of all ongoing updates, repairs and changes to existing capabilities and discuss and validate new workflow solutions using the CCB priorities to track. SDDC stakeholders and the Government PM will identify high priority projects via a software change request form, for development evaluation. Contractor shall develop and test more complex changes/projects to be implemented in two yearly software version releases. The milestone schedule (see PWS task 1.3.1.1.) shall reflect expected release dates of routine and complex changes. The contractor shall design, develop and implement secure applications and configurations IAW current DoD guidance. Refer to PWS task 1.3.6 for a description of the IA tasks required for this effort. Changes to applications may include, but is not limited to, additional data sources (interface partners), additional reports to support new customer-base, migration of capability from other programs to eliminate duplicative efforts, and new capabilities based on COTS upgrades or business needs. Typical routine (minor) changes include changes to Attributes, Associations, Buttons, Defaults, ICONs, Displays, Templates, Reports, and Wizards. Changes that are more complex may include new interface partners or new capabilities that require significantly more resources to deploy 1.3.5 Task 5: Configuration Management.

The contractor shall provide configuration management support for the program. The contractor's configuration management processes shall complement the Government's configuration management processes. The Government PMO will assign a GCM to work closely with SDDC's G6 Enterprise Configuration Manager. The GCM will work closely with the contractor to execute the contractor's configuration management activities. 1.3.5.1 Subtask 1: Configuration Management Planning. The contractor's Configuration Manager (CM) shall provide input to the Configuration Management Plan (CMP) and processes that are consistent and complement the Government's Configuration Management processes. The CMP includes but is not limited to the following: Page 16 of 68

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ 1.3.5.2

Developer's configuration management processes/procedures Methods, procedures, and controls Baselines (versioning) Change control Configuration status accounting Configuration Management Repository (Dimensions will be the delivery repository for source code prior to deployment-Government will provide network connection) NOTE: Dimensions is the current delivery repository for source code. In the future, the delivery repository for Windows applications will be Team Foundation and UNIX applications will be Subversion. Configuration Management Process Subtask 2: Change Control.

The contractor's CM shall provide change control for all baselines and configuration items to include documentation, hardware, COTS software, application, source, and executable code. The Government will provide the contractor with web access to the SDDC Enterprise CCT, currently supported by SBM software. The Government's CCT is a tool shared by the Government PMO staff and the contractor staff and is programmed to support the configuration management process; it is hosted within the CCE. The contractor shall update the configuration management processes within the tool. The contractor shall comply with G6 configuration management standards and processes as documented within and SDDC G6 Enterprise CMPs. The contractor shall evaluate all SCRs. Evaluations shall include, but not limited to; requirement clarification, requirements analysis, determination if the requirement is feasible, level of effort, adherence to standards, training impacts, and the consequences of the proposed change. This information shall be provided to the Government for evaluation via the CCT and/or as a separate document depending upon the amount of information required or provided. This evaluation will assist the Government PMO staff and the contractor to determine how many, and which, change requests shall be rolled into each release, and will help to determine dependencies within the software development cycle. 1.3.5.3 Subtask 3: Configuration Control Board (CCB).

The contractor's CM shall participate in the Government's CCE CCB, hosted by the SDDC General Staff for Communications and Information Technology (G-6). The contractor's Configuration Manager shall be the liaison between the Government and contractor to provide additional information the CCB requires. The contractor shall participate in a weekly CCE CCB meeting lasting no more than one hour. The contractor shall keep activities focused in areas the Government determines important, and the contractor shall ensure changes within the Government's CCE are properly vetted across all affected programs. 1.3.5.3.1

Page 17 of 68

The contractor shall participate in program level CCB meetings, hosted by the PMO. The CCB is held twice a year with teleconferences. The contractor shall analyze new requirements prior to the meeting and provide information to the Government PMO in order to prioritize program level requirements. This analysis shall be captured in the CCT. The Government PM and the CCB will determine the priority for all changes to be included in any scheduled release cycle. 1.3.5.4 Subtask 4: Base-lined Source Code.

The contractor shall provide installation guide(s) to the Government PMO for installing baselined code to the CCE's Common Testing Environment (CTE). The EIP team will use the installation guide(s) to deploy within the Enterprise Environments. The contractor shall assist the EIP with all releases for successful installation of the software. The contractor shall store base-lined code within SDDC's enterprise software for versioning control prior to CTE release. Currently, the Enterprise uses Serena Dimensions to store Source Code. The contractor shall have zero major defects (reference Task 1.3.2.4) on the base-lined software released to Production. The contractor shall ensure IA requirements are applied as detailed in PWS Task 1.3.6. Deliverable: Base-lined source code due prior to code release to staging environment. Deliverable: Code installation guides due prior to code release to staging environment. Deliverable: Software Changes estimated to be due twice a year. 1.3.5.4.1 Software Release Notes. The contractor shall prepare software release notes for each patch/release and present the release notes to the Government at the time of software delivery. The software release notes shall include all applications and shall be issued for all patches and releases. In each software release note, the contractor shall identify each SCR and System Problem Report number and provide a description of the change. Deliverable: Software release notes due 3 days prior to release to production environment. 1.3.6 Task 6: IA.

The contractor shall work with the Government and contractor IA team as designated within SDDC to provide and share system security data and program information.

1.3.6.1 Subtask 1: Requirements for Contractor Provision of Security Plan, IA Controls. The contractor shall establish an IA Program to implement and sustain appropriate IA management, operation, and technical controls and processes required to safeguard DoD nonpublic information resident on or transiting the contractor's unclassified information systems from unauthorized access and disclosure. Protection measures applied must be commensurate with the risks (i.e., consequences and their probability) of loss, misuse, unauthorized access, or modification of information. The contractor shall submit for Government approval an overarching security plan that describes their strategy for implementation of IA and Industrial Page 18 of 68

Security requirements throughout the life of the contract. The security plan shall address the security controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-53 (current version), Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations (http://csrc.mist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html), and should be tailored in scope and depth appropriate to the effort and the specific unclassified DoD information. The contractor shall submit an updated security plan as changes are made to the environment that may affect the security posture. Deliverable: Draft security plan due 15 months after contract start then as needed. Deliverable: Final security plan due 17 months after contract start then 2 months after a new draft plan is submitted. 1.3.6.2 Subtask 2: Accreditation Sustainment. The contractor shall provide program specific input for the development of new application security documentation and the updating of existing application security documentation to facilitate the security accreditation of the system IAW the current C&A guidance (current guidance is DoD Instruction (DoDI) 8510.01 DoD IA C&A Process (DIACAP) ­ will be migrating to NIST Risk Management Framework model). The contractor shall sustain the application and its environment in compliance with the DISA STIGs. The results of the DISA STIG documentation shall reflect the current status of the system; contractor shall provide monthly updates. The contractor shall provide updates to existing C&A documentation, such as network diagrams, ports and protocol matrix, application certification package created during release cycle, and other existing documentation. This documentation is required when changes are made that may affect the security posture of the application environment. The contractor shall provide a monthly update, NLT the last business day of the month to the Government PMO for the application's DIACAP Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M). POA&Ms are maintained within the Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service by the Government. Deliverable: Draft Network diagram, ports, protocol matrix, and certification package due 15 months after start of the process, then after changes to environment are discovered Deliverable: Final Network diagram, ports, protocol matrix, and certification package due 17 months after start of the process, then after changes to the environment are discovered. Deliverable: POA&M updates due NLT last business day of each month. 1.3.6.3 Subtask 3: Periodic Government Inspections. The contractor shall authorize Government inspections and reviews to assure compliance with DoD IA requirements throughout the contract performance period. The contractor shall be responsible for taking corrective action based upon the impact and severity of identified weaknesses. 1.3.6.4 Subtask 4: Remote Access. Contractor-furnished Equipment (CFE) employed for remote access to a Government network must meet equivalent Government-furnished equipment IA computing requirements. The Page 19 of 68

contractor shall ensure that all CFE (hardware and software) employed to access these environments meet the following minimum Government IA requirements and provide periodic certification of compliance as a pre-requisite to being granted network access. ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Use of personal systems is prohibited Operating systems and applications must be configured for compliance with the DISA Gold Disk and applicable STIGs DoD-approved anti-virus and anti-spyware software must be installed and signatures must be configured to automatically update on a daily basis DoD-approved personal firewall must be utilized and configured to permit traffic by exception only, dropping all other traffic. If the personal firewall provides intrusions detection or prevention, the signatures or rules must be updated at the same intervals as the anti-virus software Computers must be IA Vulnerability Management compliant Computers must be scanned with the DoD version of E-eye Retina vulnerability scanner (or current approved DoD scanner solution) at a minimum of every 30 days. All vulnerabilities must be remediated and reported to the cognizant IA Manager Contractor employees must possess a current Government-issued Common Access Card (CAC) and install Government-certified CAC readers Verification of compliance with these requirements must be provided to an appointed Government representative (COR/ACOR) on a monthly basis.

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Deliverable: Email verification of remote access requirement due NLT last business day of each month. 1.3.6.5 Subtask 5: Detect, Analyze, Respond.

1.3.6.5.1 Reporting Requirements. The contractor shall report to the USTRANSCOM Technical Information Analysis Center (TIAC) and USTRANSCOM designated Government personnel within 4 hours of discovery of any suspected cyber intrusion events that affect DoD information resident on or transiting the contractor's unclassified information systems. Initial report shall be provided even if some details are not yet available, with follow-on detailed reporting within 24 hours. Reportable cyber intrusion events include the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ A cyber intrusion event appearing to be an advanced persistent threat A cyber intrusion event involving data exfiltration or manipulation or other loss of any DoD information resident on or transiting the contractor's, or its subcontractors', unclassified information systems Intrusion activities that allow unauthorized access to an unclassified information system on which DoD information is resident or transiting.

Definition of advanced persistent threat: An extremely proficient, patient, determined, and capable adversary, including two or more of such adversaries working together. Page 20 of 68

Deliverable: Initial Incident Report due within 4 hours of incident and a complete detailed report within 24 hours of incident. 1.3.6.5.2 Incident Report Content. The incident report shall include, at a minimum, the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Applicable dates (date of suspected compromise and date of discovery) Threat methodology (all known resources used such as Internet Protocol addresses, domain names, copies of malware, etc.) An account of what actions the threat(s) may have taken on the victim system/network and what information may have been accessed A description of the roles and functions of the threat-accessed system An initial list of potentially impacted Government programs and each program's classification; What information may have been exfiltrated that may impact Government programs A list of all employees and subcontracted employees who work or have worked with the victim system/network A point of contact to coordinate damage assessment activities

Deliverable: Initial Incident Report due within 4 hours of incident and a complete detailed report within 24 hours of incident. 1.3.6.5.3 Incident Report Submission.
The contractor will submit unclassified network cyber incident reports to the USTRANSCOM Cyber Operations Center (CyOC) via encrypted email or another mutually agreed upon secure communications method. Copies of malware require special handling and pre-coordination must be accomplished prior to submission. The CyOC's email address and phone number are as follows: Email: transcom.scott.tcj3.mbx.cyoc@mail.mil Commercial Phone: 618-220-4222

Deliverable: Initial Incident Report due within 4 hours of incident and a complete detailed report within 24 hours of incident. 1.3.6.5.4 Incident Response Coordination. In the event of a known or potential intrusion, the contractor agrees to allow follow-on actions by the Government to further characterize and evaluate the suspect activity. The contractor acknowledges that damage assessments may be necessary to ascertain intruder methodology and identify systems compromised as a result of the intrusion. Company acknowledges that in certain cases a complete forensic analysis may be necessary to ascertain intruder methodology and identify systems compromised as a result of the intrusion. Once an intrusion is identified, the company agrees to take all reasonable and appropriate steps to preserve any and all evidence, information, data, logs, electronic files and similar type information reference NIST Special Publication 800-61: Computer Security Incident Handling Guide, (current version) related to the Page 21 of 68

intrusion for subsequent forensic analysis so that an accurate and complete damage assessment can be accomplished by the Government. The contractor is not required to maintain an organic forensic capability, but must ensure data is preserved until forensic analysis can be performed by the Government (e.g., removing an affected system, while still powered on, from the network meets the intent of this requirement). Any follow-on actions shall be coordinated with the contractor via the COR. Deliverable: Initial Incident Report due within 4 hours of incident and a complete detailed report within 24 hours of incident. 1.3.6.5.5 Law Enforcement/Counterintelligence. In the event of a known or potential intrusion, the contractor shall consent to responding counterintelligence or law enforcement investigative agency requests to apply forensic analysis tools to contractor information systems affected by the intrusion, including monitoring tools, imaging tools, and any other techniques that the agency seeks to apply to effectively analyze the intrusion. The contractor shall allow the responding counterintelligence and/or law enforcement investigative agency to image affected systems, including systems containing proprietary information. Nothing in this contract shall limit the ability to conduct law enforcement or counterintelligence activities, or other activities in the interest of the Government. 1.3.6.6 Subtask 6: Information Sharing. The Government may use and disclose reported information (e.g., information regarding threats, vulnerabilities, incidents, or best practices) that does not include attribution information at its discretion to assist entities in protecting information or information systems (e.g., threat information products, threat assessment reports); provided that such use or disclosure is otherwise authorized in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies. 1.3.6.7 Subtask 7: Confidentiality and Non-Attribution Statement. The Government shall take reasonable steps, by controlled access and need-to-know procedures, to protect against public release of attribution information of the contractor. The Government may use and disclose reported information that includes attribution information only on a needto-know basis to authorized persons for cyber security and related purposes (e.g., in support of forensic analysis, incident response, compromise or damage assessments, law enforcement, counter intelligence, threat reporting, and trend analysis). The Government may disclose attribution information to support contractors that are supporting the Government's cyber security and related activities if the support contractor is subject to legal confidentiality requirements that prevent any further use or disclosure of the attribution information. The Government agrees to consider available exemptions of the Freedom of Information Act to protect against disclosure of attribution information of the contractor to unauthorized persons. Within a reasonable period necessary to perform an analysis after completion of the assessment, all contractor proprietary information or third party proprietary information in the possession of the Government as a result of the assessment will be destroyed unless other disposition is agreed upon in writing by the Parties or is required by law, Executive Order or regulation. Page 22 of 68

1.3.6.8 Subtask 8: IA Training. All contractor employees that work on-site and all personnel that work off-site requiring privileged access shall complete the following security training as prescribed by DoD and SDDC instructions and update the Army Training and Certification Tracking System (ATCTS) to reflect the current status. These contractor employees shall create an account in the ATCTS and complete a profile survey and complete all appropriate IA training. At a minimum this includes: Employee Initial Security Training, Annual Security Awareness Training, Operations Security (OPSEC), DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Level 1 training, Personally Identifiable Information (PII) (PII Training and any Security Stand Down Day Training Scheduled by the Commander. Contract employees assigned elsewhere shall attend security training established by their respective Government security offices and/or installations. 1.3.6.8.1 IA Workforce Improvement Program. IA Contractor Training and Certification (Jan 2008): ˇ The contractor shall ensure that personnel accessing information systems have the proper and current IA certification to perform IA functions in accordance with DoD 8570.01-M, IA Workforce Improvement Program. The contractor shall meet the applicable IA certification requirements, including: o DoD-approved IA workforce certifications appropriate for each category and level as listed in the current version of DoD 8570.01-M; and o Appropriate operating system certification for IA technical positions as required by DoD 8570.01-M. ˇ Upon request by the Government, the contractor shall provide documentation supporting the IA certification status of personnel performing IA functions. ˇ Contractor personnel who do not have proper and current certifications shall be denied access to DoD information systems for the purpose of performing IA functions. 1.3.6.9 Subtask 9: Software Assurance and Security Engineering Practices. In coordination with the Government, the contractor shall design, develop and implement secure applications and configurations through applying applicable DoD STIGs, checklists, vendor security guidance, industry best practices, and applicable vendor product security patches. The contractor shall ensure applications are in compliance with DoDI 8500.2, IA Implementation (current version) and DoDI 8551.1, Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (current version). The contractor shall leverage, to the maximum extent possible, automated tools to identify and remediate vulnerabilities or weaknesses in the application design/coding, such as those described in Common Weakness Enumeration/System Administration, Networking, and Security Institute (CWE/SANS) TOP 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors and Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top Ten, that could be exploited by unauthorized sources.

Page 23 of 68

The Information System Security Engineer shall participate in Government and contractor formal and informal design reviews to identify potential security weaknesses, deficiencies, and/or vulnerabilities in the design. The Information System Security Engineer shall also ensure appropriate security requirements are included as part of the requirements traceability matrix and are evaluated as part of the security test and evaluation (ST&E). As part of the contractor's change control process, the contractor shall ensure participation by the Information System Security Engineer or a qualified IA representative to evaluate the impact of each change on security. The contractor shall document the results of this evaluation. 1.3.6.9.1 Code Scans. The contractor shall perform required base-lined source scanning IAW the SDDC IA policies prior to release to the Government. The Government will provide software security vulnerability scanning and testing tools for the life-cycle development process. The contractor shall use Fortify as the tool which is currently used by the Enterprise. Deliverable: Code scans due prior to code release to CTE environment and within 30 days of a new rule pack release. 1.3.6.9.2 Tracking Security Issues. The contractor shall track all security issues uncovered during the entire software lifecycle. The risk associated with each security issue shall be evaluated, documented, and reported to the Government as soon as possible. Once discovered, the contractor shall include the risk along with a risk mitigation course of action (COA) to include a COA recommendation, as part of the QSR. 1.3.6.10 Subtask 10: Non-Secure Software.

If the Government determines, after a security audit (e.g., ST&E) that software delivered under this contract is non-secure, the Government will provide written notice to the contractor concerning each non-conformity. Software shall be "non-secure" under contract if it contains a programming error listed on the current-approved version of the CWE/SANS TOP 25 (which can be located at http://www.sans.org/top25-programming-errors) or a web application security flaw listed on the current-approved version of the OWASP Top Ten (which can be located at http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project). The contractor shall have 30 days after receipt of such notice (Remedy Period) to remedy each non-conformity by modifying/replacing and redelivering the software to the Government; or shall notify the Government within 15 days as to why the remedy cannot be implemented in 30 days, and propose a timeline for correction. If the Government determines, after a security audit following a Remedy Period, that the redelivered software is non-secure, and thus nonconforming, the Government may reject the delivery, provide notice of the non-conformance, and document the contractor's performance record. Alternatively, the Government may accept non-conforming software, receive appropriate consideration (equitable price reduction on a fixed Page 24 of 68

price contract, reimbursement for costs of security audit, reimbursement for costs to correct the non-compliances, etc.), and document the contractor's performance record. 1.3.6.11 Subtask 11: Delivery of the Secure Application. The contractor shall provide successful installation and implementation of Enterprise software on the Government-owned environments. The Government centralized software installation/implementation team will perform code scans, builds and installation of the code into the Government-owned environments. The contractor shall provide assistance to this team during the verification and build process. The contractor shall use a master build process that reliably builds a complete distribution from source. The contractor's process shall include a method for verifying the integrity of the software delivered to the Government by using digitally signed and encrypted media. For all deliveries, the contractor shall provide all source code, installation kits, documentation *including those related to architecture, test design, and testing results, and installation procedures), and build procedures and scripts delivered to or maintained for the Government. 1.3.6.12 Subtask 12: Malicious Code Warranty. The contractor represents and warrants that the software shall be free from all computer viruses, worms, time-outs, time bombs, back doors, disabling devices and other harmful or malicious code intended to or which may damage, disrupt, inconvenience or permit access to the software user's or another's software, hardware, networks, data or information. 1.3.6.13 Subtask 13: Source Code Configuration Control (Versioning). The contractor shall utilize a strict version control process for software development and provide two copies of source code for all software versions developed under this contract. The source code will be provided on optical removable media (burned for read-only) or another mutually agreed type of media.

1.3.7 Task 7: Common Development Environment (CDE) (Reserved Task). The Government has future plans to establish an isolated CDE and facility for all software development to complement the Government's common integration and testing environment. Therefore, once this becomes available, the contractor shall assist the Government in transferring all software development operations to this environment. After transition, the contractor shall conduct all software development entirely from within this consolidated Government development environment. The contractor shall access remotely from their facilities through a Government-approved method, i.e. Virtual Machine-Ware Client. Upon completion of transfer and establishment of operational status of the Government's environment, the contractor shall cease development activities within their environment and remove all sensitive Government materials and information (data), and provide them to the Government for disposition.

Page 25 of 68

In the Government development environment, the programs will be provided basic Virtual Machines or Solaris Zones that have been locked down IAW DISA STIGs and fully patched. The contractor shall maintain the servers in a fully patched state. The Government will provide the contractor use of a dedicated computer. The contractor shall use Government-furnished equipment (GFE) or a Government-compliant dedicated computer for remote access to the development environment. The contractor's GFE computer shall not be used for other general-purpose computing or non-development activities such as e-mail and web browsing, or used to access any network, other than the contractor's development environment, including the contractor's corporate network and the internet. The CDE shall be physically and logically isolated from other networks, to include its Enterprise unclassified network. Security guidelines for the environment must be documented and the security program implemented shall address the security controls described in NIST Special Publication 800-53 (current version), Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations (http://csrc.mist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html). 1.3.7.1 Subtask 1 (Optional): The contractor shall maintain source code, design artifacts and other materials deemed sensitive by the Government within the isolated development environment. 1.3.8 Task 8: Deployment Support Module (Reserved Task). The contractor shall develop a unit movement solution as a separate module which may include but is not limited to the following: Provide transportation planning functionality provided by MAGTF MDSSII Provide enterprise collaboration features Provide ability to create standard transportation documentation (hazardous declarations, transportation movement control documents, etc.) ˇ Provide ability to read and write active and passive Radio Frequency Identification Tags Provide ability to export files formatted for Joint Force Requirements Generator II 2.0 DELIVERABLES All deliverables shall be electronically delivered via email, or updates to the appropriate website or tool (e.g., the CMR website or the Help Desk ticket system), or Dimensions in the case of software development source code and associated files. If a delivery is submitted via email and the size or the firewall prevents its delivery, the contractor shall deliver the requirements via compact disk/digital videodisk (CD/DVD). The CD/DVD shall be properly labeled to identify the content to include version number and date. All deliverables shall meet professional standards and meet the requirements set forth in contractual documentation. The contractor shall provide all deliverables electronically in Army-approved versions of Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, etc.) formats pursuant to the following schedule. ˇ ˇ ˇ

Page 26 of 68

PWS Para 1.3.1.1

Deliverable Title QSR

Format Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products

Delivery Schedule NLT the first business day in Jan, Apr, Jul, and Oct. Draft slides two business days prior to the meeting; final version to be provided at the meeting. NLT five business days after the PMR meeting. Within five business days of travel completion Within 30 business days of contract award NLT 31 October of each year of the contract. 85 calendar days after contract start. 90 calendar days after contract start. Government will review Draft SDD and provide comments to the contractor within 30 days after PDR. 30 calendar days after Government provides comments to contractor. 90 calendar days after contract start. Government will review Draft and provide comments to the contractor within 30 days 30 calendar days after Government provides comments to contractor 16 Months after start of process

Technical Data Rights

1.3.1.2

PMR Presentation Materials

1.3.1.2 1.3.1.3 1.3.1.4 1.3.1.5 1.3.2.1.1 1.3.2.1.1

PMR Minutes Trip Report Employment Status Report CMR Draft SDD PDR

Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products or Email As determined by CMR website Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products

1.3.2.1.1

Final SDD

Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products

1.3.2.1.1

Draft WBS

1.3.2.1.1

Final WBS

Microsoft Office Products ICODES Version 7 Software

1.3.2.2

1.3.2.2

1.3.2.3

Production Candidate for Government Acceptance Test Government Accepted Production Software Draft Documentation and User Guides

ICODES Version 7 Software

19 Months after contract start

Microsoft Office Products

16 Months after contract start

Page 27 of 68

PWS Para 1.3.2.3

Deliverable Title Final Documentation and User Guides AARs Known Bug Reports Application/ Installation Guides Quarterly Newsletter Software Install

Format Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Operational software within the DRE

Delivery Schedule 19 Months after contract start NLT 24 hours after action is complete NLT 5 business days prior to each code deliverable NLT 5 business days prior to each code deliverable NLT the first business day in Jan, Apr, Jul, and Oct Install/configure application software one day after installing/configuring on the Production site No more than twice a year, within 10 working days of notice. Monthly Prior to code release to CTE.

Technical Data Rights

1.3.3.1.2 1.3.3.1.2 1.3.3.1.2 1.3.3.1.2 1.3.3.2.1

Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Per DFARS 252.227-7013 and 252.2277014 Unlimited

1.3.3.2.2

1.3.3.3.1 1.3.5.4

ICODES DR/Contingency Plan Patch Compliance Report Base-lined Source Code

Microsoft Office Products .FPR format Source Code stored within SDDC Repository Microsoft Office Products Operational software within the CCE Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products

1.3.5.4 1.3.5.4

Code Installation Guide(s) Software Changes

Prior to code release to CTE. Software changes are typically twice a year

Per DFARS 252.227-7013 and 252.2277014 Unlimited Per DFARS 252.227-7013 and 252.2277014 Unlimited

1.3.5.4.1 1.3.6.1

Software Release Notes Draft Security Plan

1.3.6.1

Final Security Plan

Microsoft Office Products

1.3.6.2

Draft Network diagrams, ports and protocol matrix, certification package

Microsoft Office Products

3 days prior to release to CPE. 15 Months after start of process then as changes are made to the environment that may affect the security posture 17 Months after start of process then as changes are made to the environment that may affect the security posture 15 Months after start of process then as changes are made to the environment that may affect the security posture

Page 28 of 68

PWS Para 1.3.6.2

Deliverable Title Final Network diagrams, ports and protocol matrix, certification package POA&M Updates Remote Access Requirement Incident Report

Format Microsoft Office Products

Delivery Schedule 17 Months after start of process then as changes are made to the environment that may affect the security posture NLT the last business day of each month NLT the last business day of each month Within 4 hours of incident, follow-on detailed reporting required within 24 hours Prior to code release to CTE and within 30 days of a new rule pack release

Technical Data Rights

1.3.6.2 1.3.6.4 1.3.6.5.1 thru 1.3.6.5.4 1.3.6.9.1

Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Email or Microsoft Products

Code Scans

Fortify Report Format

3.0 SERVICE DELIVERY SUMMARY (SDS) The SDS represents the most important contract objectives that, when met, shall ensure contract performance is satisfactory. Although not all PWS requirements are listed in the SDS, the Contractor shall comply with all requirements in the PWS.
PWS Para 1.3.1.1 Performance Objective QSR Performance Threshold 96% of the time the QSR is timely, complete, and accurate, with acceptable milestones and milestone target dates. 98% of the time, all applications and services are functioning properly, are available to users and data is current (integrated NLT 24 hours after interface feed is provided). 90% of the time, Guides must be timely, complete and accurate. 99% of the time, software is installed/configured at the DR site one day after installing and/or configuring on the Production site. Software change releases must meet scheduled release dates and shall not exceed scheduled release date more than 10 business days, unless the Government approves the delay in writing Software released to Production Environment shall have zero major defects. Source code is delivered and stored within SDDC repository within timelines 100% of the time. 98% of the time, report is timely, complete, and accurate.

1.3.3, 1.3.4

Operational/Working Software, Application Functionality

1.3.3.1.2, 1.3.5.4 1.3.3.2.1

Code Installation Guides Software Installs

1.3.4.1

Software Change Releases

1.3.5.4 1.3.5.4 1.3.6.9.1

Software Change Releases Base-lined Source Code Fortify Report

Page 29 of 68

4.0 GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED AND CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED EQUIPMENT, SOFTWARE, AND INFORMATION 4.1 GFE. The Government will not accept any previously provided/used GFE for this contract. All GFE shall be maintained by the contractor IAW Defense Acquisition Regulations System (DFARS) 52.245-1, Government Property, and Army Regulation (AR) 25-2, Para 4-5. The contractor shall notify the Government of any and all software malfunctions and shall safeguard and provide property accountability for all GFE. The Government will provide GFE, e.g. hand-held terminals, as annotated in Appendix C to develop and access specific applications or other SDDC-approved solutions as required. An SDDC network account will be required to obtain a Virtual Private Network (VPN) Client account. The Government will deliver GFE to the contractor on a mutually agreed upon date, but not to exceed 30 days after contract award. The Government and the contractor shall jointly create a GFE maintenance schedule. Information services available on the Government-furnished computers shall only be used for official business only. Examples of information services include SDDC network, Internet, Intranet, World Wide Web and electronic mail. Access to Government information services is granted as a privilege and use of such services constitutes consent to monitoring. Information services use will be monitored to ensure the protection of SDDC networks and information and to verify and enforce compliance with this contractual requirement. In the event contractor personnel use Government-furnished computers and/or information services for other than official business, the Contractor shall be required to provide the Government with monetary consideration. Misuse by a contractor employee may also result in that employee losing access to Government systems and determined disqualified for Government system access. The Contractor shall ensure that workload performed by disqualified employees is transferred to a qualified individual within 10 working days. Employee disqualifications for Government system access shall not relieve the contractor from meeting the performance standards and thresholds required by this PWS. The following are examples of misuse of information services: ˇ Illegal, fraudulent, or malicious activities. ˇ Partisan political activity, political or religious lobbying or advocacy, or activities on behalf of organizations having no affiliation with SDDC or DoD. ˇ Activities whose purposes are for personal or commercial financial gain. These activities may include chain letters, solicitation of business or services, sales of personal property. Page 30 of 68

ˇ Unauthorized fundraising or similar activities, whether for commercial, personal, or charitable purposes. ˇ Accessing, storing, processing, displaying, or distributing offensive or obscene material such as pornography and hate literature. ˇ Annoying or harassing another person, e.g., by sending or displaying uninvited e-mail of a personal nature or by using lewd or offensive language in an e-mail message. ˇ Using another person's account or identity without his or her explicit permission, e.g., by forging e-mail. ˇ Viewing, damaging, or deleting files or communications belonging to others without appropriate authorization or permission. ˇ Permitting any unauthorized person to access an SDDC or DoD-owned system. ˇ Modifying or altering the operating systems or system configuration (including the installation of software) without obtaining written authorization from the CO. 4.2 Government-furnished Software. The Government will provide Government-furnished software as annotated in (Appendix C). 4.3 Government-Furnished Information (GFI). The Government shall provide the contractor with information for various purposes to include location data for inclusion in the ICODES capability. The GFI provided will remain the property of the Government and will not be released to others without prior approval of the COR/ACOR. The Government shall provide all existing documentation, to include all documents listed in the Deliverables section, for use and update by the contractor. The documentation remains the property of SDDC. 5.0 GENERAL INFORMATION

5.1 Place of Performance (POP). Primary performance will be at the contractor site. There will be two workstations provided for contractor personnel at the SDDC Government site. Contractor administrators must be able to access servers located in Building 1575 at Scott Air Force Base (SAFB). Building 1575 requires personnel entering to have a valid Secret or interim Secret clearance before entry. 5.2 Work Hours. Contractor personnel are expected to conform to normal agency operating hours (0730 ­ 1700 central time) unless otherwise approved by the COR/ACOR or as provided in PWS Task 1.3.2.4, for on call Tier II/III Help Desk Support 24 hours/7 days a week phone support (after duty hours will be on call support). A typical work week is expected from Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays. Personnel shall support short notice adjustments to their daily work hours. The contractor shall periodically support planned and/or unplanned outages typically occurring on the weekends, as provided in PWS Task 1.3.2.3.3. Page 31 of 68

5.3 Period of Performance. POP for the Base Period is Start Date thru 12 months POP for the First Option Period is 6 months POP for the Second Option Period is 12 months POP for the Third Option Period is 12 months POP for the Fourth Option Period is 12 months 5.4 Travel and ODCs. Travel and ODCs shall be cost reimbursable contract line items to the contractor. 5.4.1 Travel. Performance under this task order may require contractor travel within CONUS and OCONUS. The Government will reimburse the contractor for travel expenses subject to Federal Acquisition Regulation and Joint Travel Regulation. All contractor travel shall be validated by the COR/ACOR prior to incurring any travel expenses. The contractor shall identify personnel who will be traveling in sufficient time to obtain the lowest possible rates for airfare, rental car and lodging. Contractor invoices (along with associated receipts) shall support all travel reimbursement. Actual travel expenses shall be reported to the COR/ACOR by person, by trip, within the QSR/PMR. The Government will not reimburse local travel and related expenses to the contractor for daily travel to or from work at SAFB or the contractor's facility. Persons performing overseas travel shall be required to attend applicable DoD and security briefings. 5.4.2 ODCs. The COR/ACOR shall validate the necessity of the ODCs, i.e., electronic media such as CDs/DVDs, postage or shipping charges, packing supplies, and the International maritime Dangerous Goods Manual prior to incurring any expenses. The Government will reimburse materials and fees incurred in the performance of the PWS. 5.5 Cooperation with Other Contractors and Government Personnel. The contractor shall cooperate with other contractors and Government personnel performing work for SDDC. The contractor shall adjust scheduling and performance to accommodate additional support if required by modification. The contractor shall avoid interfering with the performance of work by other contractors or Government employees while not compromising health, safety or security. Any disagreement or cause of delay shall be brought immediately to the attention of the CO and COR/ACOR. 5.6 Contractor Employees. The contractor shall provide personnel with expertise in the subject matter areas to comply with the terms of this requirement. The contractor personnel shall be capable of working Page 32 of 68

independently. At no additional expense to the Government, the contractor shall ensure that personnel assigned to this project retain appropriate certifications and remain current in the technical skills required to support and execute the contract. . 5.7 Contractor IA Certification. The contractor shall ensure that personnel requiring privileged access to information systems have the proper and current IA certifications to perform IA functions IAW DoD 8570.01-M, IA Workforce Improvement Program. DoD-approved IA workforce certifications appropriate for each category and level are listed in the current version of DoD 8570.01-M. The contractor shall upload all baseline and computing environment certifications and training requirements into ATCTS. Contractor personnel holding an IA certification must release their certification information to the DoD by registering their certification in the Defense Workforce Certification Application: https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/appl/dwc/index.jsp. 5.8 Quality Assurance (QA). The contractor shall support Government agency reviews and audits of all services and support provided under this PWS. The contractor shall be prepared to support QA reviews conducted by the Government. The Government reserves the right to authorize an independent verification and validation of the contractor's procedures, methods, data, equipment, and other services provided at any time throughout performance of this PWS. 5.9 Quality of Software. The Government will accept no more than two major defects (reference Task 1.3.2.4) for the GAT production candidate version for the CPE for each period of performance. There will be zero major defects released to the ICODES Enterprise Production Environment. A major defect is defined as a defect that prevents the accomplishment of an operational or mission essential capability, jeopardizes safety, security, or other requirements designated "critical" and no workaround solution is known. A medium defect would be one that adversely affects the accomplishment of an operational or mission essential capability; however, a work-around solution is known. No more than ten (10) medium defects should be released to the CTE for each period of performance.

6.0 SECURITY (PHYSICAL, PERSONNEL, INFORMATION, INDUSTRIAL, OPERATIONS, ANTITERRORISM, and FORCE PROTECTION) REQUIREMENTS 6.1 General Security Information. The overall classification of work associated with this contract is at the UNCLASSIFIED level; however, some personnel will require a SECRET clearance for IT-II privileged network access and Government building access. Personnel assigned to this contract require access to NonSecure Internet Protocol Router Network applications, UNCLASSIFIED Government systems, and/or require a CAC. On-site contractors will work on-site at Scott AFB and the remaining Page 33 of 68

contractors will work off-site at contractor's facility. The contractor shall provide a completed/signed DD 254, for classification and subsequent security requirements, which will become an attachment to the contract. 6.2 Personnel Clearance Level/Investigation Requirements. 6.2.1 Contractors working on base and/or requiring IT-II Level access shall require a favorably completed National Agency Check with Local Credit (NACLC), resulting in SECRET eligibility (or higher) when adjudicated by the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO). Interim Secret clearance eligibility will be accepted provided it was granted by DISCO. The Facility Security Officer is responsible for ensuring NACLC investigations are submitted to DISCO and a minimum of Interim SECRET granted prior to contract start day. This requirement mandates the contractor have a minimum Facility Clearance Level (FCL) at the SECRET (or higher) level. 6.2.2 Contractors requiring a CAC for VPN access must successfully complete a National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) resulting in favorable suitability for Public Trust eligibility. NACI investigations must be opened with fingerprint, name and criminal records checks returned favorably before contractors are cleared to begin work on the contract. Favorable NACI investigation results must be posted in the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) before a contractor is granted a CAC or provided access to Government information systems. The contractor and/or subcontractor(s) shall possess the capability to articulate well, speak and write fluently in the English Language, and comprehend the English Language. 6.2.2.1 NACI requests will be submitted to SDDC Directorate of Intelligence and Security (G2), via a Personnel Security Investigation Program form, for processing as soon as the employees are identified. 6.2.2.2 HQSDDC will only process NACI/Position of Trust investigations and will not complete any personnel security investigations for classified or privileged access. It is incumbent upon the contractor to have the appropriate investigations completed upon start of the contract. 6.3 Company FCL. The awarded contract company (and subcontractors) must have a valid FCL at the SECRET level or higher. Interim Secret FCL's are acceptable provided they are not expired prior to final adjudication by Defense Security Service. FCL procedures and security guidelines for adjudicative requirements are outlined in DoD 5220.22-M, DoD 5200.22-R and AR 380-67. FCL is required upon contract start date. 6.4 Clearance/Investigation Validation Checks. Upon award of this contract, the names and social security numbers of all contract employees supporting this contract shall be submitted to SDDC G2 for vetting in JPAS to ensure investigative requirements have been obtained before contract start date. This requirement shall

Page 34 of 68

be completed prior to the COR/Trusted Agent submitting contract employees for their CAC in the DoD Trust Associate Security System (TASS). 6.4.1 Companies with JPAS access shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining their employees JPAS records. 6.5 CAC Issuance. Upon notification by SDDC G2 that contractor personnel meet the required investigative and clearance levels, the personnel are to be loaded in TASS for an expiration on their CAC for the base year, plus two option years, for a three year total, if the contract is fully funded. If the contract is unfunded or funded on a yearly basis requiring recertification of funding by USTRANSCOM TCAQ/TCJ8 or SDDC G8, CACs will only be approved for the current period of performance. Once approved in TASS, the contractor employees shall go to the nearest RealTime Automated Personnel Identification System/Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System office for CAC issuance. 6.6 SAFB/USTRANSCOM/HQ SDDC Physical Access. Contractors not working on base at least 4-days a week and/or have a desk, phone and computer assigned will be issued a temporary visitor badge each time they require access to USTRANSCOM /HQSDDC facilities. 6.7 Visit Authorization. Visit(s) by contract company personnel not permanently assigned on SAFB require an electronic visit request in JPAS to SMO Code: USTC-SDDC. 6.7.1 Permanently assigned contractors at SAFB require electronic JPAS visit requests submitted to SMO Code: SSC-CONT, point of contact block is the contract number and phone number block will include COR phone number and last name. 6.7.2 Visit requests to SAFB are not to exceed 180-day duration and will not be valid once the visit extends past the base or option years of this contract period. 6.8 In/Out Processing. Upon termination or completion of this contract, the contractor employee will surrender all Government supplies, materials, classified material and equipment to the COR. Off-site contractors will return the CAC to the COR. This will be accomplished on the last day of the contract or upon any termination/reassignment of a contract employee. CORs who obtain CAC and security badges due to short notice terminations or release of contract employees will revoke access in TASS and turn the CAC and security badge into the Security Service Center in Building 1900, SAFB for final process/out-processing. 6.8.1 Security briefing/debriefing statement (Standard Form 312) will be completed upon start/completion of the contract and will be maintained by the COR of G2 (if assigned to SDDC at SAFB).

Page 35 of 68

6.9 Security Training. Contractor employees shall complete the following training within 30 days of contract start as prescribed by DoD, Army and SDDC Regulations: Initial Security Briefing, OPSEC, Threat Awareness and Reporting Program (TARP) and DoD AT Level 1 Training, Active Shooter and Workplace Violence Training. This also includes IA training required for specific computing platforms and applications. 6.9.1 Initial Security and AT Level I Training will be provided by SDDC G2 and attendance is required within the first 10 days of contract start date at SAFB. All other training can be accessed on the SDDC Portal Training site. Contractor personnel assigned elsewhere shall attend security training established by their respective Facility Security Officer. Computer access will not be granted until Initial Security Training is complete. 6.10 Security Permissions on DoD Systems. The Government shall ensure roles/privileges assigned to contract employees on the Government computing platforms are limited to those required for that individual's performance of their assignments. These roles/privileges can be limited or revoked by the Government for any reason. 6.11 Security Compliance/Deviations. If the Government notifies the contractor that the employment or the continued employment of any Contractor employee is prejudicial to the interests or endangers the security of the U.S. of America, that person shall be removed and barred from the worksite. 6.11.1 Circumstances surrounding the removal of contract employees include security deviations/incidents and credible derogatory information received or uncovered on contract members during the course of the contractual period. The contract company shall make any changes necessary in the appointment(s). 6.11.2 Contracting officers or contracting officer representatives will ensure Army contractors with security clearances comply with threat awareness and reporting requirements specified in AR 381-12. Additionally, persons employed by Army contractors will report threat-related incidents, behavioral indicators, and other matters of Counter-Intelligence (CI) interest specified in AR 381-12, Chapter 3, to the Facility Security Officer, the HQ SDDC Industrial Security Manager, the nearest military CI Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or the Defense Security Service. 6.11.3 Contractor employees will comply with base access and control procedures.

Page 36 of 68

6.11.4 OPSEC. All information furnished to the Contractor is to be used FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO). The contractor is required to be aware of OPSEC requirements from SDDC. Information determined as FOUO or included as part of the OPSEC Critical Information List is not to be released to the public. 6.12 Force Protection Condition (FPCON) Impact on Work Levels (U.S. Installation Only). Contractors are not authorized access to the installation during increased FPCON CHARLIE and DELTA. 6.13 Security Regulation and Compliance. The contractor shall be required to comply with all security regulations and directives as identified herein, any other security requirements located in this contract. The contractor shall not divulge any financial, planning, programming, or budgeting information without the express consent of the Government as outlined in OPSEC and Information Security Regulations. 6.14 Security Regulation Guidance. DoD: 2000.12 (DoD AT Program) 2000.16 (DoD AT Standards) 5200.01-M Volumes 1-4 (DoD Information Security Program) 5200.2-R (DoD Personnel Security Program) 5200.08-R (DoD Physical Security Program) 5220.22-R (National Industrial Security Program) 8500.1 (IA) 8500.2 (IA Implementation) DoD regulations found at: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html Army: AR 25-2 (IA) AR 380-5 (Department of the Army Information Security Program) AR 380-20 (Restricted Areas) AR 380-49 (Industrial Security Program) AR 380-67 (Personnel Security Program) AR 381-12 (TARP) AR 525-13 (AT) AR 530-1 (OPSEC)

Page 37 of 68

Army regulations found at: http://armypubs.army.mil/ SDDC: SDDC Regulation 190-13 (SDDC Physical Security Program) SDDC Regulation 380-2 (SDDC OPSEC Program) SDDC Regulation 380-5 (SDDC Information Security Program) HQ SDDC Industrial Security Point of Contact: Standa "Tony" Cameron 1 Soldier Way SDDC G-2 Scott Air Force Base, IL 62225 Commercial: 618-220-6559/6558 Email at standa.t.cameron.civ@mail.mil HQ SDDC G2 Approval: Tony Cameron, 15 January 2014 HQ SDDC G2 Tracking #: HQSDDCG2-001-14

7.0 NON-DISCLOSURE OF DATA/INFORMATION In performance of this contract, the contractor may have access to sensitive, non-public information. The contractor agrees (a) to use and protect such information from unauthorized disclosure IAW Directive Type Memorandum 08-027, Security of Unclassified DoD Information on Non-DoD Information Systems, 31 July 2009; (b) to use and disclose such information only for the purpose of performing this contract and to not use or disclose such information for any personal or commercial purpose; (c) to obtain permission of the Government ICODES PM before disclosing/discussing such information with a third party; (d) to return and/or electronically purge, upon Government request, any non-public, sensitive information no longer required for contractor performance; and (e) to advise the Government ICODES PM of any unauthorized release of such information. Upon request, the contractor shall have its employees assigned to this contract execute a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) for delivery to the Government. The Government will require contractor personnel to sign an NDA (Appendix D) to protect non-public information of other contractors and/or the Government. 8.0 CONTRACT TRANSITION The purpose of this section is to address the minimum requirements for transition of the contract from the incumbent contractor to the succeeding contractor. 8.1 Incoming Contractor Transition. 8.1.1 Transition Planning.

Page 38 of 68

The incoming contractor shall provide the Government with a transition plan that provides for receiving all open work and associated materials and assets in the possession of the Government, which may be related to ongoing work. 8.1.2 Sufficient Personnel. The contractor shall have at least 25 percent of all necessary personnel and the capability to support each task at task order award. The contractor shall have 50 percent of personnel available within 15 business days and 100 percent 30 business days after task order award. 8.1.3 Receipt of Materials. The incoming contractor and the Government shall jointly inventory all Government-owned intellectual and real property provided for the performance of work within this contract. Receipt of materials to begin work will occur NLT10 days after the beginning of the contract. The incoming contractor must have a secure facility that can host the development and testing hardware and software. This facility and the incoming contractor must be ready to receive Government-owned software at the contract start date. The development and test suite must be available to the incoming contract team NLT 15 business days after contract start date. 8.2 Incumbent Contractor Transition. 8.2.1 Transition Planning. The incumbent contractor shall provide the Government with a transition plan that provides for conveying all open work and associated materials and assets in their possession to the Government. The plan must be approved by the Government prior to execution. 8.2.2 Continuity of Service. The contractor shall ensure the continuity of service while implementing its transition plan for all affected activities to preclude any adverse impact on the mission. 8.2.3 Listing of Open Service Requests. The incumbent contractor shall provide the COR/ACOR a complete listing of all open service requests indicating the status of completion and any performance issues associated with them. The report is due NLT 45 days prior to the contract scheduled end date. 8.2.4 Transfer of Materials. The incumbent contractor shall transfer to the Government all intellectual and real property belonging to the Government which was generated, purchased on behalf of, or provided by the Government for the performance of the work within this contract.

Page 39 of 68

8.2.5 Sufficient Personnel. The incumbent contractor shall provide a sufficient number of personnel to ensure effective transfer of all work in progress so as not to affect mission accomplishment.

Page 40 of 68

APPENDICES: A. B. C. D. E. F. G. H. I. J. ACRONYMS APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE NON-DISCLOSURE AGREMENT SYSTEM APPLICATION DESCRIPTION SYSTEM APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT DESCRIPTION WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS EXAMPLE AFTER ACTION REPORT GOVERNMENT ACCEPTANCE TEST PROCESS

Page 41 of 68

Appendix A ACRONYMS Acronym A4 AAR ACOR AMC AMP AR AT ATCTS C&A CAC CCB CCE CCT CD CDE CE CFE CI CM CMP CMR CO COA CONUS COR COTS CPE CR CTE CWE/SANS DFARS DIACAP DISA DISCO DM DoD DoDI Definition Directorate of Logistics After-Action Report Alternate Contracting Officer Representative Air Mobility Command Analysis of Mobility Platform Army Regulation Antiterrorism Army Training and Certification Tracking System Certification and Accreditation Common Access Card Configuration Control Board Common Computing Environment Change Control Tool Compact Disc Common Development Environment Conveyance Estimator Contractor-furnished Equipment Counter-Intelligence Configuration Manager Configuration Management Plan Contractor Management Report Contracting Officer Course of Action Contiguous United States Contracting Officer Representative Commercial-off-the-shelf Common Production Environment Conveyance Repository Common Testing Environment Common Weakness Enumeration/System Admin, Audit, Network, Security Institute Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office Data Manager Department of Defense DoD Instruction Page 42 of 68

DR DRE DVD EIP ETA FCL FOUO FPCON FY G2 G3 G6 GATES GCM GFE GFI HHT HQ IA IAW ICDM IR IT JPAS MAGTF MDSS-II NACI NACLC NDA NIST NLT OCONUS ODC OPSEC OWASP PDR PM PMO PMR POA&M POP PWS QA QSR SA

Disaster Recovery Disaster Recovery Exercise Digital Video Disc Enterprise Infrastructure Program Electronic Transportation Acquisition Facility Clearance Level For Official Use Only Force Protection Condition Fiscal Year Directorate of Intelligence & Security Directorate of Operations Directorate of Information Management Global Air Transportation Execution System Government Configuration Manager Government Furnished Equipment Government-furnished Information Hand-Held Terminal Headquarters Information Assurance In Accordance With Integrated Cooperative Decision-Making Information Repository Information Technology Joint Personnel Adjudication System Marine Air Ground Task Force Marine Air Ground Task Force Deployment Support System-II National Agency Check with Inquiries National Agency Check with Local Credit Non-Disclosure Agreement National Institute of Standards and Technology No Later Than Outside Contiguous United States Other Direct Costs Operations Security Open Web Application Security Project Program Design Review Program Manager Program Management Office Program Management Review Plan of Actions and Milestones Period of Performance Performance Work Statement Quality Assurance Quarterly Status Report System Administrator Page 43 of 68

SAFB SAN SBM SCR SDD SDDC SDS SME STE STIG TARP TASS TC-AIMS II TIAC TOE U.S. USTRANSCOM VPN WBS

Scott Air Force Base Storage Area Network Serena Business Management System Change Request Software Design Document Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Service Delivery Summary Subject Matter Expert Security Test and Evaluation Security Technical Implementation Guide Threat Awareness and Reporting Program Trust Associate Security System Transportation Coordinators' Automated Information for Movement System II Technical Information Analysis Center Table of Organization and Equipment United States United States Transportation Command Virtual Private Network Work Breakdown Schedule

Page 44 of 68

Appendix B APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS

Federal and Department of Defense (DoD) Regulations Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 DoD Directive (DoDD) 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix DoDD 8000.1, Management of DoD Information Resources and Information Technology DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5158.06, Distribution Process Owner DoDI 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management Implementation E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347) Federal Acquisition Reform Act (Division D of Public Law 104-106) Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106) Paperwork Reduction Act (Public Law 104-13, Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code) DoDD 8500.1, Information Assurance (IA) DoDI 8500.2, IA Implementation DoDD 8570.01, IA Training, Certification, and Workforce Management DoD 8570.01-M, IA Workforce Improvement Program Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 6510.01A, IA and Computer Network Defense Volume I (Incident Handling Program) DoDI 8520.2, Public Key Infrastructure and Public Key Enabling DoDI 8551.1, Ports, Protocols, and Services Management DoDI 8510.01 DoD IA Certification and Accreditation Process * Page 45 of 68

Any modification to above mentioned Policy or Guidance Army Best Business Practices United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) Instructions USTRANSCOM Instruction 33-16, Management of USTRANSCOM* Computer Assets USTRANSCOM Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 5552.204-9000, Notification of Government Security Activity and Visitor Group Security Agreements

Page 46 of 68

Appendix C

GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE 1. Products that will be provided to the Contractor for its development and test environment: ˇ ˇ 2. Oracle Fortify

Products that are made available to the Contractor via remote connections: ˇ ˇ Serena Business Manager Serena Dimensions

3.

Products that are made available to appropriate contract personnel sitting on-site: ˇ Microsoft Project

4.

Hardware that will be provided to the Contractor: ˇ Hand-held Terminals

Page 47 of 68

Appendix D

NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT AND AGREEMENT TO DISCLOSE POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST FOR CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES ON UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION COMMAND (USTRANSCOM) CONTRACTS NOTE: This Agreement is a standard agreement designed for use by contractor (including subcontractor) employees assigned to work on USTRANSCOM contracts. Its use is designed to protect non-public Government information from disclosure, identify potential conflicts of interest, and prevent violations of federal statutes/regulations. The restrictions contained in this agreement also serve contractors by promoting compliant behavior that keeps contractors eligible to compete for Government contracts. In addition to the potential impact on future business opportunities, failure to abide by this agreement could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties specified by statute or regulation. 1. I, ___________________________, currently an employee of ________________________, hereby agree to the terms and conditions set forth below. 2. I understand that I may have access to confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information (as defined by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 3.104-1), and/or source selection information (as defined by FAR 2.101) either for contract performance, as a result of working in a USTRANSCOM facility, or of working near USTRANSCOM personnel, contractors, visitors, etc. I fully understand that such information is sensitive and must be protected in accordance with 41 United States Code (USC) Section 423 and FAR Subpart 3.1. 3. In the course of performing under contract/order # contract for USTRANSCOM, I agree to: a. or some other contract or sub-

Use only for Government purpose any and all confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information, and/or source selection sensitive information to which I am given access. I agree not to disclose "non-public information" by any means (in whole or in part, alone or in combination with other information, directly, indirectly, or derivatively) to any person except to a US Government official with a need to know or to a non-Government person (including, but not limited to, a person in my company, affiliated companies, sub-contractors, etc.) who has a need to know related to the immediate contract/order, has executed a valid form of this non-disclosure agreement, and receives prior clearance by the Contracting Officer (CO). All distribution of the documents will be controlled with the concurrence of the Contracting Officer. "Non-public information," as used herein includes trade secrets; confidential or proprietary business information (as defined for Government employees in 18 USC 1905); advance procurement information (future requirements, acquisition strategies, statements of work, budget/program/planning data, etc.); source selection information (proposal rankings, source selection plans, contractor bid or proposal information); Page 48 of 68

b.

information protected by the Privacy Act (social security numbers, home addresses, etc.); sensitive information protected from release under the Freedom of Information Act (predecisional deliberations, litigation materials, privileged material, etc.); and information that has not been released to the general public and has not been authorized for such release (as defined for Government employees in 5 Code of Federal Regulation 2635.703). c. Not use such information for any non-Governmental purposes, including, but not limited to, the preparation of bids or proposals, or the development or execution of other business or commercial ventures. d. Store the information in such a manner as to prevent inadvertent disclosure or releases to individuals who have not been authorized access to it. 4. I understand that I must never make an unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information, and/or source selection sensitive information unless: a. The information has otherwise been made available without restriction to the Government, to a competing contractor or to the public. b. The CO determines that such information is not subject to protection from release. 5. I agree that I shall not seek access to "non-public information" beyond what is required for the performance of the services I am contracted to perform. I agree that when I seek access to such information, attend meetings, or communicate with other parties about such information, I will identify myself as a contractor. Should I become aware of any improper or unintentional release or disclosure of "non-public information," I will immediately report it to the CO in writing. I agree that I will return all forms (including copies or reproduction of original documents) of any "non-public information" provided to me by the Government for use in performing my duties to the control of the Government when my duties no longer require this information. 6. Because the Government expects unbiased judgment and recommendations from contractors performing work under its contracts and orders, I agree to advise the CO of any actual or potential personal conflicts of interest I may have related to any work I perform under this contract/order with the government. Personal conflicts of interest include any matter in which I or my spouse, minor child, or household member has a financial interest. A financial interest is any interest in, or affiliation with, a prime contractor, subcontractor to a prime contractor, any offeror's, or any prospective subcontractor to any offeror for the program, contract, or other matter for which I am performing a support task under this contract. The financial interest can take the form of any ownership interest (including but not limited to: stock; ownership of bonds; vested or unvested retirement benefits; a loan or other financial arrangement that is other than an arm's-length transaction; employment, or an arrangement concerning prospective employment including negotiations therefore; or any non arm's length loan, any gift from or other non arm's length financial arrangement with any person who is directly communicating with the Page 49 of 68

Government on behalf of the prime contractor, subcontractor, or any prospective subcontractor or offeror). With respect to conflict of interest disclosures required under this agreement, a financial interest in, or affiliation with, the prime contractor that is my employer under this contract does not have to be disclosed to the CO. If any potential conflicts of interest, real or otherwise, do present themselves, then I shall immediately disclose the pertinent information to the CO. By signing below, I certify that I have read and understand the terms of this Non-Disclosure Agreement and Agreement to Disclose Potential Conflicts of Interest, and voluntarily agree to be bound by its terms. _______________ Date

Signature of Contractor Employee Printed Contractor Employee Name Government Contracting Officer's Representative

_______________ Date

Page 50 of 68

Appendix E SYSTEM APPLICATION DESCRIPTION

Breakbulk Tool (BT): Allows a user to perform detailed planning for the packaging of breakbulk cargo items into boxes and containers or onto pallets and other cargo platforms. These results can be sent to the IR or imported into the CE as custom predefined solutions that can be used during the estimation process. For example, a custom package that you often create at your site could be built in the BT. These results could be brought into SLP. Cargo Symbol Manager (CSM): Allows a user to import cargo symbols created in CB and add mapping associations for use in the SLP. Collaborative Information Workspace (CIW): Provides the framework for the software services and human users to operate within while using ICODES Version 6. It can be considered the backbone of ICODES because it links all of the software services and web applications together. CIW is also used to manage all of the user accounts and the authentication process as they access the other web applications. Conveyance Builder (CB): Provides a tool for users to create custom ships, aircraft, railcars, yards and cargo symbols that can be imported to the SLP for load planning purposes. Conveyance Estimator (CE): Provides estimating capabilities to determine how many boxes, pallets, and containers may be required to package user defined cargo lists as well as the estimation of lift requirements on ship, aircraft, and railcars based on a user defined cargo list. Conveyance Repository (CR): Allows you to manage the ship, aircraft, railcar, and yard information that is in ICODES Version 6. As the ICODES Version 6 project adds, removes, or updates the conveyances, the CR can be used to keep your installation of ICODES synchronized with the latest versions of the conveyances. Data Cleanser (DC): Allows a user to import cargo lists and validate the accuracy of the cargo data against multiple reference libraries. Any number of inaccurate data elements can be selected and either manually edited or changed using the information in a reference library. DC can also be used to add, duplicate, and remove any number of cargo items before the updated cargo data is exported out to a file into a variety of available interface formats. In addition, the CE and SLP incorporate an embedded version of the DC to assist the user with correcting and editing the cargo data in a load plan. Data Manager: Similar to the CR, allows you to manage and maintain the cargo data reference libraries used in ICODES Version 6 as they are updated by USTRANSCOM such as the Joint Equipment Characteristics File (JECF) or the aerial ports listing.

Page 51 of 68

Hand Held Terminal (HHT) Administrator: Allows you to manage the user accounts used in the cargo tracking devices, such as AIT scanners, that interface with ICODES Version 6. The purpose for this web application is similar to the CIW but is specifically focused on the business practices and authentication requirements for the AIT devices used by the military to track the movement and placement of cargo as it is being transported. Information Repository (IR): Allows users to upload and download files that are generated through the use of ICODES. Once uploaded, users can use the various search methods found in the IR to find files. This application provides the data integration required by the SLPC initiative. Like the DC, CE, CB, and SLP all incorporate an embedded version of the IR in their interface for the import and export of files during the estimating, conveyance building, and load planning activities.

Single Load Planner (SLP): Allows a user to perform a variety of load planning activities for ships, aircraft, railcars, and yard management. SLP has built in agents to monitor cargo, access, stowage and hazard violations or warnings along with the trim and stability of a ship during the stowing of cargo and the center of balance of aircraft when load planning cargo and passengers. Transportability Analysis Reports Generator (TARGET): A Transportation Engineering Agency (TEA) analysis tool used for force deployment planning and analysis. TARGET merges equipment characteristics with unit equipment authorizations to detail unit movement requirements for selected units. TARGET provides TEA analysts the ability to model the loading of organic cargo vehicles, containers, trucks, railcars, and aircraft in order to analyze the deploy ability of alternative force structures, changes in the Defense Transportation System, and future weapons systems. TEA's modernization effort includes integrating TARGET into the existing ICODES software. TARGET is a software application that allows users to determine the number of movement assets required to move selected military units. It helps military transportation planners plan for the movement of military units by determining the quantity of vehicles required based on the equipment and supplies assigned to the specified units. TARGET determines the assets required to move a given set of units, and provides reports that document the details of the results of these simulations. It also provides facilities to export results to formats usable by other tools.

Terminal Management Module (TMM): Provides ocean terminals a yard management tool to manage the shipment and storage of ammunition. Alerts are automatically created when items are placed where they are not planned, when their net explosive weight exceeds the limits of their current location, and when cargo items may not be compatible if placed on the same ship when departing the terminal. Terminal operators can use TMM to monitor the progress of the day- to- day activities within the terminal as well as generate reports, schedules, and other supporting documents utilized by all of the terminal groups.

Page 52 of 68

Application

Enterprise 

Desktop

Satellite 

BT

 CSM  CIW Administrator CB CE      DM  HHT Administrator  IR  





 

  

CR DC



 











SLP

 



TARGET

Page 53 of 68

Appendix F SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS DESCRIPTION Break bulk Tool (BBT): ˇ 3D Viewer for creating and manipulating items and containers ˇ Export to a standard pack that Conveyance Estimator (CE) can import ˇ Import an cargo list ˇ Export an cargo list with associations Conveyance Builder (CB): CB shall be able to create drawings of ships and export them to a custom file format that shall be imported into Single Load Planning (SLP). The drawings of ships shall include the basic components of a ship: hull, decks, and stow areas. Conveyance Estimator (CE): CE shall provide the ability to estimate the number of pallets, containers, trains, aircraft or ships that may be required to accommodate the loading of a mixture of cargo items with respect to identified constraints. ˇ The fundamental architecture for CE shall adhere to Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) principals. ˇ The CE application shall be deployable within the Collaborative Information Workspace (CIW) and utilize services where applicable. Collaborative Information Workspace (CIW): CIW shall serve as the SOA-based Enterprise Service Bus I provide the following services: ˇ Service registration ˇ Smart routing, messaging ˇ Single Sign-On ˇ User authentication and authorization* Cargo Symbol Manager (CSM): CSM shall operate as both a web service and web application providing the ability to 1) map a symbol to a specific piece of cargo 2) import customized symbols containing more contextual information. 3) Allow user to create and edit custom mappings for both authoritative as well as user-created symbols. Data Cleanser (DC):

Page 54 of 68

DC shall provide the user the ability to validate a list of cargo items against various authoritative sources in support of load planning. In addition DC shall: ˇ Alert the user when an identifying attribute of a cargo item (e.g., National Stock Number (NSN) and Model Number) is not found within a set of reference libraries. ˇ Alert the user when an attribute of a cargo item is not consistent with other attributes of that same cargo item when compared against a set of reference libraries (e.g., Length not compatible with NSN) within a user-defined tolerance value. As possible, provide suggestions for replacement values that would resolve the alert and associated dataquality issue. ˇ Allow the user to select the set of reference libraries to use for cargo-list validation. ˇ Allow the user to search and browse the reference libraries. ˇ Allow the user to add a piece of equipment from a reference library to the user's cargo list. ˇ Allow the user to apply hazardous characteristics from a reference library to one or more cargo items in the user's cargo list. ˇ Provide a mechanism for users to update their reference libraries from a DC master server. ˇ Provide a mechanism for users to update their reference libraries from a TRANSCOM Reference Data Management (TRDM)-hosted web service. This functionality may not apply to all deployments of ICODES and only applies to reference libraries maintained by TRDM. ˇ Provide a mechanism for users to update their reference libraries from a file. Non-functional requirements shaping the DC design are as follows: ˇ SOA: DC applications and services shall adhere to the principals of SOA. For services, this requires the implementation of core features within a reusable web service employing a published interface with open standard protocols. For applications, this requires that the endpoint Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for any services that it invokes must be configurable. ˇ Speed: A single cargo item shall be able to be validated against a typical reference library in half a second or less. A typical user-defined search across a typical reference library should return results in 10 seconds or less. ˇ Accuracy: The alerts raised by the DC as well as the suggestions generated for addressing those alerts shall be accurate for the user-selected set of reference libraries and within the user-defined tolerance ranges. ˇ Horizontal Scalability: The DC service shall be able to scale horizontally by standing up additional instances of the service as needed to meet increasing demand profiles. ˇ Embeddable: Since multiple applications require data cleansing capabilities, key userinterface components of the DC shall be able to be embedded and re-used across applications. Embeddable functionality shall minimally include validating cargo, searching and browsing reference libraries, and adding cargo from reference libraries. Data Imaging (DI): Page 55 of 68

The DI service allows a consumer of the service to retrieve as-loaded ICODES load plans from the Information Repository (IR) and convert them into a Portable Document Format (PDF) file that can be easily opened and viewed by the consumer. The ICODES DI service also allows the consumer to retrieve the as-stowed cargo list, given a specific load plan and conveyance. The DI service provides the capability to retrieve available Conveyance Repository (CR) vessels that could potentially be used to query for specific load-plan conveyances. Hand-held Terminal (HHT): The HHT shall continue to replace the manual pen and paper process once utilized to collect data and account for as-loaded cargo stowed upon accommodating conveyances. Once collected, this data is made available to other ICODES planning components such as SLP and Terminal Management Module (TMM). HHT Administrator ˇ Stage data from the production host planning system (i.e., SLP and/or TMM) for use with Mobile in the field ˇ Collect incoming transactions from Mobile for review prior to submission to the production host planning system (i.e., SLP and/or TMM) ˇ Provide a host planning system proxy service that provides the means for Mobile to acquire staged plan data and submit plan changes (i.e., transactions) ˇ Provide the capability to manage Mobile Clerk user accounts Mobile ˇ Provide support for multiple deployment patterns; currently supported deployments include the following: Standalone Global Air Transportation Execution System (GATES) Integrated HHT Integration Integrated ˇ Compatibility with select mobile-device platforms. Currently supported devices include the following: ˇ Intermec CK61G (Windows Mobile 5) ˇ Motorola MC9190G (Windows Mobile 6.5) ˇ Capability to securely connect to a host planning system proxy service (i.e., HHT Administrator) to acquire and update plans directly from the field ˇ Capability to scan one- and two-dimensional barcodes on cargo to identify and add cargo items ˇ Provide a graphical viewer capability for visualizing a stowage area; the viewer allows for situational awareness and representation of the environment Page 56 of 68

ˇ Viewer capability to interact with cargo items, including modifying orientation, position, and associations: Controls for zooming and panning the current view Select and move cargo items and stow notes Rotate cargo items and stow notes ˇ Capability to manage cargo-item associations ˇ Capability to accommodate undesirable network conditions and intermittent connections with the host planning system by leveraging a cache capability; users may choose to work in a disconnected offline mode and connect at a later time to update the host planning system proxy service (i.e., HHT Administrator) ˇ Provide a cargo report that displays the current cargo list and allows the addition of new cargo items and the modification of existing cargo-item attributes. ˇ SOA: the HHT shall adhere to the principals of SOA when interacting with ICODES services. This requires interfacing with ICODES services with an open standard protocol via a configurable endpoint URL. ˇ Environment: Device software shall be compatible with the Windows Mobile operating system. ˇ Modularization: Software components shall be designed in such a way to allow porting to multiple devices and new Government-approved hardware. ˇ Security: Information Assurance directives shall be followed at the application, device, and infrastructure levels. When available, support for certificate (PKI) authentication shall be employed. ˇ Information Repository (IR): The IR as a SOA-based component shall provide the ability to: ˇ Categorized Storage: Provide a mechanism to store content and categorize content by data type. ˇ Publish Data: Allow clients to publish a unit of data into a category based on the type of data. The published data will be accompanied by metadata specific to the type of published data. ˇ Content Listing: Allow clients to retrieve a listing of content from a category. The retrieved data units will be accompanied by metadata that will enable a client to filter the query results. ˇ Metadata Search: Allow clients to perform a search over metadata to constrain the listing of content from a category. Metadata search shall process partial, imprecise, or even misspelled search terms to help locate content. ˇ Retrieve Data: Allow clients to retrieve a unit of data from a category. ˇ Administer Data: Provide an administrative function to remove all IR data older than a specified date.

Page 57 of 68

ˇ Horizontal Scalability: The IR service shall be able to scale horizontally. In other words, it must be possible to stand up additional instances of the service as needed to meet increasing demand profiles. ˇ Embeddable: Since multiple ICODES applications need the capability to collaborate by exchanging files; key user-interface components of the IR shall be embeddable and reuseable across applications. Embeddable functionality shall include, at minimum, the capabilities to import and export content to and from the IR. Load Planning Service (LPS): LPS shall, as a web service, provide assisted-stowing capability throughout the suite of application to include CE, SLP and TARGET. ˇ SOA: LPS shall adhere to the principals of SOA, which imply the implementation of core features within a reusable web service employing a published interface with open standard protocols. ˇ Stateless Web Service: In order to improve load-plan generation speed and seamless scalability, LPS must be implemented as a stateless web service to eliminate the overhead of database connections and transactions. ˇ Speed: The load-planning algorithms within LPS shall be written to generate load plans in a reasonable amount of time, here specified as less than ten (10) minutes to load a large ship to capacity and less than 1 minute to load an aircraft to capacity given a reasonable quantity of cargo (less than 10,000 items). ˇ Accuracy: The load-planning algorithms within LPS shall be written to generate load plans with no agent violations with the exception of Trim and Stability agent violations in the Ship domain. The algorithm is not intended to replace human operators but rather to provide a close solution that is sufficient for conveyance estimating and as a starting point that can be refined by human users to produce a formalized load plan for execution. ˇ Horizontal Scalability: LPS shall be able to scale horizontally. In other words, if necessary, it must be possible to stand up additional instances of the service as needed to meet increasing demand profiles. ˇ Reusability: LPS is intended as a reusable capability minimally supporting the distinct requirements of SLP, CE, and TARGET. ˇ Extensibility: LPS must be designed and implemented to allow for new or alternative load-planning algorithms to be written and employed without significant code changes. ˇ Consistency: LPS must produce the same results given the same inputs. These requirements drive the major technology decisions behind the design of LPS . In keeping with the primary overarching requirement , LPS is one of many capabilities adhering to the principles of SOA. LPS is designed as a stateless web service, which was a requirement derived as the means to achieve speed and horizontal scalability goals. Avoiding database interactions is a principal factor in improving the speed of automated load planning when compared to its predecessor Assisted Stow. Designing LPS as a stateless web service addresses horizontal scalability by making it possible to execute any number of LPS instances without incurring enterprise-wide side effects such as increased usage of limited, concurrent database connections. Page 58 of 68

LPS shall be able to expand and evolve to accommodate the changing requirements of load planners. Currently, LPS has algorithm implementations for load planning aircraft and ships, but it is intended to support the Rail and Yard domains if/as dictated by the Government as well as other future-emergent domains or other load-planning applications of LPS. Extensibility might eventually go so far as to expand existing domains to provide multiple, load-planning algorithm alternatives. ICODES: The principal requirements that shall dictate shape and constrain the architecture include: ˇ Web accessibility ˇ Multi-user access ˇ User Collaboration ˇ Configuration (i.e. Enterprise, Desktop, and Resident Server) ˇ SOA development Among these principal requirements, SOA provides the foremost guidance and constraints that govern all aspects , ranging from overall system architecture to the design of each individual application or service. SLP: SLP shall provide artificial intelligent and knowledge-based, load-planning capability to allow planners to quickly develop load plans for ship, aircraft, railcars, and yards. Equipped with automated experts, SLP shall allow proper cargo placement and segregation with respect to identified rules that govern hazardous material, trim and stability, as well as accessibility. SLP functionality has proven essential to the replacement of retired systems such as: the Automated Air Load Planning System and the T-AVB Automated Load Planning System. Transportability Analysis Report Generator (TARGET): TARGET shall provide the capability to assess transportation requirements for the deployment of military units and incorporate the following: ˇ Legacy TARGET basic functionality: Identified functional capabilities provided by the current legacy TARGET application shall be provided .. ˇ SOA: The fundamental architecture for ICODES-TARGET shall adhere to SOA principals. ˇ Integration into ICODES suite: The TARGET application shall be deployable within the CIW and utilize services where applicable. ˇ CE basis: Wherever possible existing capabilities present in the CE application shall be used for supporting common functionality. TMM: Page 59 of 68

TMM shall provide the ability to solve real-time location problems by: ˇ Providing work orders to yard personnel that directs them to their tasks. ˇ Providing Geographic Information System viewer to locate cargo. ˇ Providing a Planning View that allows placement of items in the future and comparison with the execution state or other future planning states for item placement. ˇ Providing a way to search items. ˇ Providing hierarchical and scalable dwell time reporting. ˇ Providing rail cargo management feature ˇ Providing reports for rail car detention and carrier trailer times once released by the government ˇ Provide HHT interface to allow use to identify customized cargo attributes and report item placement, associations and any changes or newly identified items. EXTERNAL TRANSLATION SERVICES (xTRAS): ˇ xTRAS shall allow an end user of a client system to import cargo data from any number of external cargo systems of record data sources of which an interface agreement is formed. ˇ xTRAS shall allow an end-user of a client system to export stow data from the client system to the external cargo system of record. xTRAS has interface agreements with the following systems: ˇ Transportation Coordinators' Automated Info for Movement System II: The standard unit move database for the Army ˇ Marine Air Ground Task Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Deployment Support System-II (MDSS II): The United States Marine Corps system of record for cargo data ˇ Modern Multimodal Interface: The most modern and preferred interface for MDSSII ˇ Manual Exchange Ship Cargo: A legacy interface retained from ICODES Version 5.4.3 ˇ Cargo Movement Operations System: A base-level combat support system used to move cargo in peacetime and cargo and passengers in support of contingencies ˇ GATES: An Air Force system created to track cargo and passenger information as well as support the scheduling and forecasting of logistical missions ˇ Logistics Module (LOGMOD): The LOGMOD of the Air Force's Integrated Deployment System ˇ The Enhanced Yard Management (EYM) Interface: A bi directional tab-delimited file exchange for the purpose of updating EYM with locations and status of cargo within the ICODES TMM system ˇ Others: In addition to the formal Interface Design Documents, xTRAS is also responsible for importing cargo data from multiple sources without formal design documents.

Page 60 of 68

Appendix G SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT DESCRIPTION CCE SOFTWARE BASELINES (UNIX/WINDOWS) ­ the underlying support system is divided across 3 logical-tiers and comprised of a collection of web, application and database servers all hosted on both UNIX and Microsoft Windows operating systems and referred to as the Common Computing Environment (CCE). The software breakdown for each is as follows: CCE (Web, Application, Database Servers) - UNIX Tier 1 - Web Servers Currently the web server is UNIX-based and comprised of the following software in support of web-based applications: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Solaris Open SSH Open GCC McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee A/V Command Line Scanner CA Unicenter Agent SecurID Agent VNC NetApp Scli NetApp Host Utilities Java Application Server Oracle Application Server

Tier 2 - Application Servers Currently the application server is UNIX-based and comprised of the following software: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Solaris Open SSH Open GCC McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee A/V Command Line Scanner CA Unicenter Agent SecurID Agent VNC NetAp Scli NetApp Host Utilities Veritas Foundation

Page 61 of 68

Tier 3 - Database Servers Currently the database server is comprised of the following software: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Microsoft Windows Server ActiveClient CAC CA Unicenter Agent CommVault Agent VMware Tools WinRAR archiver WinZip SecureID Agent SQL Server McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee Anti-virus .NET Framework Tumbleweed Desktop Validator

CCE (Web, Application, Database Servers) - Windows Tier 1 - Web Servers Currently the web server is UNIX-based and comprised of the following software in support of such web-based applications: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Microsoft Windows Server ActiveClient CAC CA Unicenter Agent CommVault Agent McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee Anti-virus .NET Framework Tumbleweed Desktop Validator VMware Tools WinRAR Archiver WinZip SecureID Agent Microsoft IIS Version

Page 62 of 68

Tier 2 ­ Application Servers Currently the application server is UNIX-based and comprised of the following software : ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Microsoft Windows Server ActiveClient CAC CA Unicenter Agent CommVault Agent McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee Anti-virus .NET Framework Tumbleweed Desktop Validator VMware Tools WinRAR Archiver WinZip SecureID Agent

Tier 3 ­ Database Servers Currently the database server is comprised of the following software: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Microsoft Windows Server ActiveClient CAC CA Unicenter Agent Comm Vault Agent McAfee HBSS Agent McAfee Anti-virus .NET Framework Tumbleweed Desktop Validator VMware Tools WinRAR Archiver WinZip Microsoft SQL Server

BASELINE (CCE) ­ The software required to facilitate the current version of ICODES is distributed across multiple tiers (web, application, database servers) in support of 3 unique deployment configurations (Enterprise, Satellite, and Desktop) all within the CCE. The software breakdown for each configuration is as follows: Enterprise Version In addition to the application software, the enterprise version utilizes the following as its' base: ˇ ˇ ˇ Windows CCE App Server Base Build UNIX CCE Database Server Base Build AGM, SDC, or NMCI Page 63 of 68

ˇ ˇ Satellite Version

Oracle Enterprise Java Runtime Environment Tomcat Web Server

In addition to the application software, the satellite version utilizes the following as its' base: ˇ Windows CCE App Server Base Build ˇ UNIX CCE Database Server Base Build ˇ AGM, SDC, or NMCI ˇ Oracle Enterprise ˇ Oracle Spatial Java Runtime Environment ˇ Tomcat Web Server Desktop Version In addition to the application software, the desktop version utilizes the following as its' base: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ HHT Configuration ICODES currently also runs on a mobile device. It will be transitioned to the MC9190G in FY14: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ WinMobile Operating System Moving towards Symantec Mobile Security Suite Integration Software (Currently being developed) GATES ICODES AGM, SDC, or NMCI Oracle Personal Java Runtime Environment Tomcat Web Server Internet Explorer Adobe Flash Player

System Requirements for Desktop Configuration The Desktop Configuration has minimum hardware requirements in order to ensure adequate performance, which are: ˇ ˇ ˇ Operating System: Windows XP / Vista Professional, and Windows 7 Professional Processor Speed: Intel Core 2 Duo or faster Amount of RAM: Windows Vista / 7 = 4 GB or more, Windows XP = 3GB or more Page 64 of 68

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Hard Drive: 160 GB @ 7200 RPM or higher Video Card / Screen Resolution: 1280 X 800 at 32 bit color depth or higher Network Card: 100 Mb Per Second or faster Other Hardware: CAC Reader and DVD Optical Drive (for installation media) Web Browser: Internet Explorer v8 or higher, Adobe Flash Player v10 or higher.

Page 65 of 68

Appendix H WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

Part I ­ Information Assurance Certification Requirements (From DOD 8570.01-M, Table C3.T5 ­ IAT Level II Functions

Contract Task Tasks 2 and 4 Task 3 Task 6

DOD 8570.01-M IA Function T-II.27 T-II.3., T-II.5., T-II.6., T-II.8., T-II.13., T-II.14., T-II.21., T-II.22., T-II.23, T-II.27., and T-II.29. T-II.2., T-II.4., T-II.7., T-II.9., T-II.10., T-II.11., T-II.15., T-II.16., T-II.17., T-II.22., T-II.24., T-II.25., T-II.26., T-II.28., T-II.30., and T-II.31

IAT II

X X

Page 66 of 68

Appendix I EXAMPLE AFTER-ACTION REPORT

Subject: Stakeholder Concurrence: Start Date: End Date: Communities Affected: Impact: Executive Summary: Reason For ASI: Recovery Plan: POC Name: POC Phone: Cell: Work: Stakeholders Concurring and Any Comments: Systems or Services Affected: Other Systems (not listed above): IMN Systems Affected: Internal or Public Portal Affected (IMP): Transportation Business Systems Affected (IMA): TEA Systems Affected (TEA):

Page 67 of 68

Appendix J GOVERNMENT ACCEPTANCE TEST PROCESS

Page 68 of 68

