TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I – THE SCHEDULE

































































































































































































































































































































SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES

The purpose of this contract is to obtain a Medicare Administrative Contractor (hereinafter referred to as “the contractor” or “MAC”) to provide specified health insurance benefit administration services, including Medicare claims processing and payment services, in support of the Medicare program (also known as the Medicare fee-for-service, or FFS, program) for Jurisdiction 5.  Jurisdiction 5 consists of the following states: Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.  In addition, this jurisdiction includes Part A legacy workload.  

CONTRACT TYPE

CMS anticipates award of a Cost-Plus-Award-Fee (CPAF) contract.

B.3  	AWARD FEE

The amount of award fee the Contractor earns, if any, will be based on an evaluation by the Government of the contractor’s performance in accordance with the Award Fee Plan (see Attachment J-06). The CMS Fee Determination Official (FDO) will determine the amount of award fee earned by the contractor for the evaluation period.  The determination of the amount of the award fee for the evaluation period is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the FDO.   Upon receiving written notification from the FDO of the amount of award fee earned for the evaluation period, the Contractor may submit an invoice for the earned award fee.  The Government may unilaterally change the Performance Evaluation Plan at any time. However, any revisions to the evaluation criteria in the Performance Evaluation Plan shall be presented to the Contractor prior to the evaluation period in which it will be used.  The award fee evaluations will be performed on an annual basis with the actual evaluation taking place in the month immediately following the evaluation period.  The award fee available for each period shall be a portion of the total award fee pool available for the entire contract period (see Section G.23).

*Note: A sample Award Fee Plan (see Attachment J-06) is provided.  The final Award Fee Plan will be provided at time of contract award. 

B.4	ESTABLISHED COST AND AWARD FEE

The estimated cost of this contract, including all options, is $TBD.  The base fee is $TBD.  The maximum available award fee is $TBD.  Total cost plus base fee plus award fee is $TBD.  

B.5	TASK DIRECTIVES

The Contracting Officer may use individual Task Directives with specifically defined scopes and schedules to direct the contractor to perform special projects.  Task Directives may also be issued to request a special administrative or user support services project.  This mechanism will be used on a project-by-project basis and will be incorporated into the contract through the Changes clause (FAR 52.243-2).  

Task Directives issued under this contract may be fixed price or cost reimbursement.  The contractor is required to establish separate cost accounts for each Task Directive issued and to segregate those costs on their vouchers.

B.6	SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES































































*Complimentary Credits will be provided at time of award.




DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT

STATEMENT OF WORK

The Statement of Work (SOW) is provided under Section J as Attachment J-01 and shall be made a part of the contract.  The SOW takes precedence over the Internet Only Manuals and Paper-Based Manuals unless otherwise specified.




PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

All deliverables required under the contract must be shipped and marked in accordance with Section F.   Deliverables and any other requirements are set forth herein.




INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .

Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses:

	52.246-5	INSPECTION OF SERVICES – COST REIMBURSEMENT (APR 1984)

APPROVALS BY THE CONTRACTING OFFICER TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE

All services or supplies to be delivered to the Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) will be deemed to have been accepted 30 calendar days after date of delivery, except as otherwise specified in this contract, if written approval or disapproval has not been given within such period.  The COTR's approval or revision to the services or supplies delivered shall be within the general scope of work stated in the contract.

INSPECTION OF SERVICES – COST-REIMBURSEMENT

All work under this contract is subject to inspection and final acceptance by the Contracting Officer or the duly authorized representative of the Government.

The Government's COTR is a duly authorized representative of the Government and is responsible for inspection and acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract.

Inspection and acceptance of the Contractor's performance shall be in accordance with FAR Clause 52.246-5 "Inspection of Services-Cost Reimbursement."




DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .  

Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses:

52.242-15	STOP WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The work and services hereunder shall be completed as follows:

The period of performance for completion of all work under this contract shall be from the effective date of contract award through 12 months, plus four (4) one (1) year options as follows:

Note:  The option periods delineated above are subject to the option clause in Section I of this contract.




DELIVERABLES



The Deliverable Schedule is incorporated as Attachment J-02 and made a part of this contract. 



b.  All deliverables required under this contract shall be packaged, marked and shipped in accordance with U.S. Government specifications.  The Contractor shall guarantee that all required materials shall be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition.

c. The Contractor shall submit all required deliverables and reports in accordance with the attached schedule.  Reports submitted under the contract shall reference and cite the contract number and identify CMS as the sponsoring agency.

d.	Except for deliverables containing Protected Health Information (PHI), deliverables shall be submitted to CMS ART.  Deliverables containing PHI, as defined in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), cannot be submitted in CMS ART and shall continue to be submitted electronically using the Deliverable electronic mailbox.  For deliverables containing PHI, the email shall include the deliverable title and reference number (if applicable) in the subject line.   The contractor will copy the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) and Contract Specialist (CS) on all electronic and/or written correspondence.  Once the deliverable is received, the Contractor will receive an automatic reply confirmation.  

e.	For the PHI deliverables, if unable to send electronically, the contractor is to send a notice to the J5 MAC Deliverable electronic mailbox stating the deliverable is being mailed in hardcopy, with an expected delivery date.  The contractor will mail the hardcopy of the deliverable (excluding implementation deliverables) to the COTR.  Hardcopy Implementation deliverables should be sent to the J5 Implementation Lead.

Refer to JSM Number_10337 for further instructions.



f. Satisfactory performance under the contract shall be deemed to occur upon delivery and acceptance by the Contracting Officer, or the duly authorized representative, of the following items in accordance with the attached schedule J-2 (reports submitted under the contract shall reference and cite the contract number and identify CMS as the sponsoring agency):



The following abbreviations apply to schedule J-2:



IAW 		In accordance with 

NLT 		Not later than

COB 		Close of business

E 		Electronic copy (e-mail or diskette)

H 		Hard copy

CP 	Cover page

COTR 		Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

CS 		Contract Specialist





Note:   Additional deliverables may be assigned as part of the product planning process.

Individual products may be released on a flow basis, as necessary by the direction of the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).

Addressees:

CONTRACTING OFFICER’S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR)

TBD



CONTRACTING OFFICER (CO)    

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Attention: Christina Honey

7500 Security Boulevard, MS: B2-14-21

Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 



CONTRACT SPECIALIST (CS)      

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Attention: TBD

7500 Security Boulevard, MS: B2-14-21

Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850 



For the PHI Deliverables, the mailbox address is as follows:  



Deliverables email: J5_MAC_Deliverables@cms.hhs.gov



All electronic files shall be submitted in a format that is compatible with Microsoft Office PC-based software. As this requirement is subject to change, the contractor shall be able to adapt to any new CMS standard in order to submit deliverables. Unless specifically denoted as “workday(s),” all timeframes are in calendar days, calendar weeks, calendar months, etc. after the effective date of the contract.


CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

	(To be incorporated at time of award)

PAYMENT, SELECTED ITEMS OF COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS

Travel Costs (Including Foreign Travel)

The Contractor shall be reimbursed for travel costs in accordance with FAR 31.205-46.

Per Diem

Expenses for subsistence and lodging shall be reimbursed to the Contractor only to the extent where overnight stay is necessary for performance under this contract. Incurred costs shall be considered to be reasonable and allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed, on a daily basis, the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the Federal Travel Regulations.  See FAR 31.205-46(2).

Cost of Materials

The cost of materials furnished or used under this contract shall be reimbursed in accordance with paragraph (b) of the clause entitled "Allowable Cost and Payment (FAR 52.216-7)" for cost reimbursement contracts. Expendable material costs for items such as office supplies, report paper, etc., and tools of the trade shall be priced in accordance with the Contractor’s approved accounting practices or standards, as applicable. The Contractor shall be required to support all material costs claimed.

Relocation Costs

In accordance with FAR 31.205-35, relocation costs, either direct charged or included in the contractor's indirect cost pools, associated with an individual not completing a term of service equal to one year working under this contract shall be an unallowable cost under this contract.

DISSEMINATION, PUBLICATION & DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION

Data and information either provided to the Contractor, or to any subcontractor or generated by activities under this contract or derived from research or studies supported by this contract, shall be used only for the purposes of the contract.  It shall not be duplicated, used or disclosed for any purpose other than the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract.  This restriction does not limit the contractor's right to use data or information obtained from a non-restrictive source.  Any questions concerning "privileged information" shall be referred to the Contracting Officer.

 Some data or information may require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that preliminary findings which could create erroneous conclusions are not stipulated.  Also, some data or information, which relate to policy matters under consideration by the Government, may also require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure so that the open and vigorous debate, within the government, of possible policy options is not damaged.

Any questions about use or release of the data or information or handling of material under this contract shall be referred to the Contracting Officer who must render a written determination.  The Contracting Officer's determinations will reflect the results of internal coordination with appropriate program and legal officials.

Written advance notice of at least forty-five (45) days shall be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's desire to release findings of studies or research or data or information described above.  If the Contractor disagrees with the Contracting Officer's determination, and if this disagreement cannot be settled by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer in a mutually satisfactory manner, then the issue will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause.

Any presentation of any report, statistical or analytical material based on information obtained from this contract shall be subject to review by the COTR before dissemination, publication, or distribution.  Presentation includes, but is not limited to, papers, articles, professional publications, speeches, testimony or interviews with public print or broadcast media.  This does not apply to information that is requested pursuant to the Federal Freedom of Information Act.

The COTR review shall cover accuracy, content, manner of presentation of the information, and also the protection of the privacy of individuals.  If the review finds that the Privacy Act is or may be violated, the release/use of the presentation shall be denied until the offending material is removed or until the Contracting Officer makes a formal determination, in writing, that the privacy of individuals is not being violated.

If the review shows that the accuracy, content, or manner of presentation is not correct or is inappropriate in the light of the purpose of the project, the COTR shall immediately inform the Contractor, in writing, of the nature of the problem.  If the Contractor disagrees, the COTR may insist that the presentation contain, in a manner of equal importance, materials, which show the government's problem with the presentation.

The Contractor agrees to acknowledge support by CMS whenever reports of projects funded, in whole or in part, by this contract are published in any medium.  The Contractor shall include in any publication resulting from work under this contract, an acknowledgment substantially, as follows: 

"The analyses upon which this publication is based were performed under Contract Number ________________________, entitled, A/B MAC Jurisdiction 5.”

Sponsored by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health & Human Services." 

Any deviation from the above legend shall be approved, in writing, by the Contracting Officer.

SUBCONTRACTING REPORTING

The Contractor shall report all subcontract awards to small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, HUBZones, veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns. The reports shall be prepared using the electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) via the internet at . The Individual Subcontracting Report (ISR), formerly SF294, shall be submitted semi-annually for the periods of October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30. The Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR), formerly, SF 295 shall be submitted annually for the period of October 1 through September 30.  The report(s) shall be delivered not more than thirty (30) calendar days following the close of each period covered.  

SUBCONTRACTING PROGRAM FOR SMALL AND SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESSES

The contractor hereby agrees to implement the conditions of the subcontracting plan submitted and approved by the Contracting Officer for this contract.  The Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Subcontracting Plan is hereby incorporated and made a part hereof as Attachment J-03 of this contract.

SUBCONTRACT CONSENT

To facilitate the review of a proposed subcontract by the COTR and the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall submit the information required by the FAR Clause 52.244-2 entitled, "Subcontracts" to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer shall review the request for subcontract approval and the COTR's recommendation and advise the Contractor of his/her decision to consent to or dissent from the proposed subcontract, in writing.

Consent is hereby given to issue the following subcontract(s): 

(To be completed at time of award, if applicable)

SERVICE OF CONSULTANTS/ SUBCONTRACTORS

 For the purposes of this contract, consultants are considered subcontractors.  The Contractor shall follow the procedures established in FAR Clause 52.244-2.  The Contracting Officer shall review the request for subcontract approval and the COTR's recommendation and advise the Contractor of his/her decision to consent to or dissent from the proposed subcontract, in writing.

For utilization of the services of any consultants under this contract, the Contractor shall be reimbursed in accordance with the rate(s) set forth below.





GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES

The following CMS personnel are the points of contact for this contract:







 CONTRACTING OFFICER RESPONSIBILITY



In accordance with FAR 52.201-1 Definitions, the term ‘Contracting Officer’ means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings.  The term includes certain authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within the limits of their authority delegated by the Contracting Officer.

Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this Contract, the Contracting Officer shall be the ONLY individual authorized to:

Enter into and commit/bind the Government by contract for supplies or services; 

Accept nonconforming work or waive any requirement of this Contract; 

Authorize reimbursement to the Contractor for any costs incurred during the performance of the Contract; and 

Modify any term or condition of this Contract, i.e., make any changes in the SOW; modify/extend the period of performance; change the delivery schedule.

CONTRACTOR PROJECT MANAGER



(To be completed at time of award) will serve as Project Manager.  It will be his/her responsibility to obtain the staff necessary and to direct the work for the conduct of this project.  The Project Manager shall also keep the Government COTR and Business Function Leads (BFLs) up to date regarding all technical, cost and schedule-related issues.  The Government reserves the right to approve any necessary successor to be designated as Project Manager.



CONTRACTING OFFICER TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE



The following COTR(s) will represent the Government for the purpose of this contract:

Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR)

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Center for Medicare

Medicare Contractor Management Group

Attn:  TBD, Mail Stop TBD





(410) 786-xxxx

Email:  



The COTR is responsible for: (1) monitoring the Contractor's technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and compliance with all substantive project objectives; (2) interpreting the SOW and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required; (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this contract; (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance; (6) providing technical direction in accordance with Section G.12; and (7) reviewing of invoices/vouchers.

The COTR does not have the authority to act as an agent of the Government under this contract.  Only the Contracting Officer has the authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes in the SOW; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the Contractor any costs incurred during the performance of this contract; or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this contract.

The Government may unilaterally change its COTR designation.

The COTR may be assisted by the BFL. The BFLs will not have the authority to provide technical direction in accordance with Section G.12, however, they may be responsible for:  (1)  monitoring the Contractor's technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and compliance with all substantive project   objectives; (2) interpreting the SOW and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required;   (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this contract; (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance; and (6) reviewing of invoices/vouchers.

TECHNICAL DIRECTION

 

Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the COTR.  The term "technical direction" is defined to include, without limitation, the following:

Directions to the Contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish the contractual SOW.

Provision of information to the Contractor, which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work description.

Review and, where required by the contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications, and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract.

Technical direction must be within the general Scope of Work stated in the contract. The COTR does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical directions which:

Constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general Scope of Work of the contract.

Constitutes a change as defined in the contract clause entitled "Changes - Cost Reimbursement."

In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total estimated contract cost, fixed-fee, or the time required for contract performance.

Change any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract.

All technical direction shall be issued in writing by the COTR or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within five working days after issuance.

The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the COTR in the manner prescribed by this article and within his/her authority under the provisions of this article.

If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COTR is within one of the categories as defined in (l) through (4) above, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in accordance with FAR 52.243-2, Changes-Cost Reimbursement Alt I.

DESIGNATION OF PROPERTY ADMINISTRATOR

The CMS Property Administrator, Administrative Services Group, Office of Property and Space Management at (410) 786-6462, is hereby designated the property administration function for this contract. The Contractor agrees to furnish information regarding Government Property to the Property Administrator in the manner and to the extent required by the Property Administrator, his duly designated successors, and in accordance with FAR Part 45 and Department of Health & Human Services (DHHS) Manual entitled, Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property, (DEC 2008).  This manual is provided under Section J, Attachment J-27 and is hereby made part of this contract.  



GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY



Pursuant to FAR Part 45 – Government Property and FAR clause 52.245-1, Government Property (AUG 2010), of this contract, the Government will furnish for performance of the work required herein a list of property, which is provided under Attachment J-05 and is hereby made part of this contract. 



CONTRACTOR FURNISHED PROPERTY



A list of Contractor Furnished Property is incorporated as Attachment J-26 (To be completed at time of award).



INVOICING AND PAYMENT   (See Attachment J-04, Billing Instructions)

 

Submission of invoices for payment:



Once each month following the effective date of this contract, the Contractor may submit to the Government an invoice for payment, in accordance with FAR clause 52.216-7 “Allowable Cost & Payment.”  The Government shall make provisional payments on all invoices pending the completion of a final audit of the Contractor’s cost records.



To expedite payment, invoices shall be prepared and submitted as follows:



Original and four (4) copies shall be submitted to the address below:






--For overnight delivery:





One (1) copy shall be sent to the COTR.



Content of invoice:

Contractor’s name;

Invoice date;

Contract number;

Description, CLIN, cost or price and quantity of property and/or services actually delivered or rendered, breakout of hours incurred by labor category; 

Travel cost shall be broken down to include number of trips, numbers and name of individuals per trip, mode of transportation, mileage charge and length of stay;

Other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract;

Name, title, phone number and complete mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is to be sent and notify in the event of defective invoice; and

Period of performance or delivery date of goods or services provided.



Invoice payment



Reimbursement for invoices submitted under this contract shall be made not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the original invoice from the Contractor in the copies requested at the paying office designated above.



Payment will be authorized after the Division of Accounting has received a certification of the invoice by the COTR and verification that the invoice amount is consistent with the schedule set forth under Section B of this contract.  Any discrepancies determined as a result of the audit could delay the processing of the invoice and may result in the invoice being returned to the Contractor for corrections.  Inquiries relating to payments should be directed to the Office of Financial Management/Accounting Management Group, ATTN:  Janet Kahler on (410) 786-5427 or Suzanne Turgeon on (410) 786-1924.  



Interest on overdue payment



The Prompt Payment Act, Public Law 97-177 (96 Stat.85.31 U.S.C. 1801) and FAR 52.232-25 Prompt Payment (OCT 2008), is applicable to payments under this contract and requires the payment of interest on payments made more than 30 days after receipt of an invoice by the Division of Accounting Operations, pursuant to FAR 32.907. 

Determinations of interest due will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Prompt Payment Act and Office of Management and Budget Circular A-125.



SEPARATION OF MEDICARE INTEGRITY PROGRAM AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT FUNDING



Funding for Medicare Integrity Program activities under section 1893 of the Social Security Act is derived from a different source than funding for the other functions (called “Program Management functions”) which the Contractor performs pursuant to the authority of section 1874A of the Social Security Act.  Therefore, separate accounts shall be designated for Medicare Integrity Program activities and the Program Management functions which the Contractor performs pursuant to the authority of section 1874A.  The Contractor shall separately account for costs incurred to perform Medicare Integrity Program activities and its Program Management functions under this contract.  In no event shall the Contractor apply funding which is designated for Medicare Integrity Program activities to costs incurred in performing its Program Management functions authorized by section 1874A; similarly, the Contractor shall not apply funding designated for costs incurred in performing its Program Management functions under section 1874A to Medicare Integrity Program activities.



SEPARATION OF TRUST FUND EXPENDITURES/ACCOUNTING FROM ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURES/ACCOUNTING



Any costs which are properly chargeable by a provider of services, physician, or supplier as benefit costs in accordance with Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, its implementing regulations and this contract, shall not be chargeable to this contract as administrative costs (i.e., either Medicare Integrity Program or Program Management costs).  The Contractor shall separately account for benefit payments made by it from costs incurred to perform its Medicare Integrity Program activities and its Program Management functions under this contract.



COMPLEMENTARY CREDITS



The contractor shall separately account for complementary credits and reflect the current and cumulative totals on their monthly invoice.  The estimated amounts for complementary credits shall be shown as a reduction to the total costs amount (i.e. after application of any fees) within each applicable CLIN.  Complementary Credits for crossover claims will be accounted for on a cash basis.  



METHOD OF PAYMENT



In accordance with FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003), the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) shall only make an electronic reimbursement/payment.    



In accordance with FAR 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration (APR 2008), the contractor must register in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.



The contractor shall notify CMS’ Division of Accounting Operations of all EFT and address changes in CCR via the following email address:  .



CORRESPONDENCE PROCEDURES



To promote timely and effective administration, correspondence (except for invoices), submitted under this contact shall be subject to the following procedures:



Technical Correspondence - Technical correspondence (as used herein, this term excludes correspondence which proposes or otherwise involves waivers, deviations or modifications to the requirements, terms or conditions of this contract) shall be addressed to the COTR with an informational copy of the basic correspondence to the Contracting Officer.



Other Correspondence - All other correspondence shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer with an informational copy of the basic correspondence to the COTR.



Subject Lines - All correspondence shall contain a subject line, commencing with the contract number and assigning consecutive numbers (serial numbers to permit accountability), as illustrated below:



DATA TO BE DELIVERED



Any working papers, interim reports, data given by the Government or first produced by the Contractor under the contract or collected or otherwise obtained by the Contractor under the contract, or results obtained or developed by the Contractor (subcontractor or consultants) pursuant to the fulfillment of this contract are to be delivered, documented, and formatted as directed by the Contracting Officer.



In addition, information and/or data, which are held by the Contractor related to the operation of their business and/or institution and which are obtained without the use of Federal funds, shall be considered "PROPRIETARY DATA" and are not "subject data" to be delivered under this contract.

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AWARD FEE PLAN

A sample Performance Evaluation Award Fee Plan upon which the determination of award fee is based is identified herein as Attachment J-06.*  The award fee plan contains details on how the Contractor will be evaluated periodically for its performance.  The general criteria upon which the Contractor will be evaluated substandard, expected or superior in performing each function includes such elements as efficiency, ingenuity, responsiveness, perceptiveness, thoroughness, timeliness, and resourcefulness.

The Contractor may submit self-evaluations of performance for each period under consideration.  The Performance Evaluation Board in reaching its determination will consider these self-evaluations.

*Note: A sample Performance Evaluation Award Fee Plan is provided. The final award fee plan will be provided at time of contract award.

WORKING PAPERS

The Contractor shall provide, at the request of the Contracting Officer, all the working papers used by the participating officials and employees of the Contractor in connection with all work undertaken pursuant to the contract.  

FINAL INDIRECT COST CEILING RATES – ADVANCE UNDERSTANDING



Pursuant to FAR Clause 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, this advance understanding sets forth final indirect cost rate ceilings as delineated in the table above.  Contractor reimbursement of allowable indirect costs by the Government is limited to the final indirect cost rate ceilings.



Where indirect cost rates exceed the final indirect cost rate ceilings set forth in this advance understanding, the contractor shall only be reimbursed at the final indirect cost rate ceilings.   The Government is not obligated to pay any additional amount whereby indirect costs are incurred above the established final indirect cost rate ceilings.  The contractor shall not recoup amounts occasioned by the incurrence of indirect costs above the established final indirect cost rate ceilings on other contracts or grants with the Government.



This advance understanding shall not change any monetary ceiling, contract obligation, or specific cost allowable or disallowance provided for in this contract.  



In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.216-7(d)(2), Allowable Cost and Payment incorporated by reference in this contract in Part II, Section I, the cognizant Contracting Officer representative responsible for negotiating provisional and/or final indirect cost rates is identified below:









The period or periods for which such rates will be established shall correspond to the contractor’s fiscal year(s).  The final rate proposal shall also be submitted to the Contracting Officer at:





USE OF GOVERNMENT DATA (REPORTS/FILES/COMPUTER TAPES OR DISCS)



Any data given to the contractor by the Government shall be used only for the performance of the contract unless the Contracting Officer specifically permits another use, in writing.  Should the Contracting Officer permit the contractor the use of Government-supplied data for a purpose other than solely for performance of this contract and if such use could result in a commercially viable product, the Contracting Officer and the contractor must negotiate a financial benefit to the Government.  This benefit should most often be in the form of a reduction in the price of the contract; however, the Contracting Officer may negotiate any other benefits he/she determines are adequate compensation for the use of these data.



Upon the request of the Contracting Officer or the expiration date of this contract, whichever shall come first, the contractor shall, upon instructions from the Contracting Officer, return or destroy all data given to the contractor by the Government.  However, the Contracting Officer may direct that the data be retained by the contractor for a specific period of time, which period shall be subject to agreement by the contractor.  Whether the data are returned, retained, or destroyed shall be the decision of the Contracting Officer with the exception that the contractor may refuse to retain the data.  The contractor shall retain no data, copies of data, or parts thereof, in any form, when the Contracting Officer directs that the data be returned or destroyed.  If the data are to be destroyed, the contractor shall directly furnish evidence of such destruction in a form the Contracting Officer shall determine is adequate. 



INCORPORATION OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATE



The Contractor’s Conflict of Interest Certificate, submitted in response to the solicitation’s Section H.3, dated XXXXX, is hereby incorporated and made a part hereof of this contract (Attachment J-XX).


INCORPORATION OF REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS 



The Contractor has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the contractor verified by submission of their proposal that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this contract (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this contract), as of the date of this contract and are incorporated in this contract by reference.




SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS



HHSAR 352.242-70 KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 2006)



The key personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to work performance. At least 30 days prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs or contracts (or as soon as possible, if an individual must be replaced, for example, as a result of leaving the employ of the Contractor), the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and shall submit comprehensive justification for the diversion or replacement request (including proposed substitutions for key personnel) to permit evaluation by the Government of the impact on performance under this contract. The Contractor shall not divert or otherwise replace any key personnel without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Government may modify the contract to add or delete key personnel at the request of the contractor or Government.



When key personnel positions are vacated due to unforeseen circumstances, a proposed replacement shall be submitted in writing for approval no later than 30 calendar days from the date the position was vacated. Interim replacements should be identified when a permanent replacement cannot be identified within this time frame. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) may consider a 60-day interim replacement until a permanent replacement is secured.



The following individuals are considered “key” under this contract:

(To be completed at time of award)






CONDITIONS OF PERFORMANCE



In addition to the performance requirements of this contract set forth under Section C, Description/Specifications, Work Statement, the Contractor may be required to comply with the requirements of any revisions in legislation or regulations, which may be enacted or implemented during the period of performance of this contract, and are directly applicable to the performance requirements of this contract.  In the event that revisions in legislation or regulations are enacted and do impact the performance requirements of this contract, the Contractor will have an opportunity to assess the cost and schedule impacts of such revisions and will, when applicable, be provided an equitable adjustment subject to the negotiated indirect cost ceiling(s) established in the contract.



CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

a.	General:  It is essential that the Contractor and the services provided to Medicare beneficiaries under this contract be free, to the greatest extent possible, of all conflicts of interest.  Except as provided below, the Contracting Officer shall not enter into a contract with an Offeror or maintain a contract with a Contractor that the Contracting Officer determines has, or has the potential for, an unresolved conflict of interest. 



b.	Disclosure:  Contractors must disclose all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest to the Contracting Officer during the term of the contract in accordance with paragraph H.3.d. below.  The Contractor shall have programs in place to identify, evaluate, and mitigate all actual, apparent, and potential conflicts of interest that: preclude, or would appear to preclude, the Contractor from rendering impartial assistance or advice on work performed for this contract; impair or appear to impair the Contractor’s objectivity in performing the contract work; or provide or appear to provide the Contractor with an unfair competitive advantage.  The Contractor’s Conflict of Interest Certificate, that includes the Contractor’s plan to mitigate all actual, apparent and potential conflicts of interest identified during the term of the contract and certification that all work to be performed under this contract is free of unresolved conflicts of interest, will be incorporated into the contract after award.



c.	Conflict of interest identification:



1.	Definitions:  As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:



(a)	Financial relationship means—

(1)	A direct or indirect ownership or investment interest (including an option or nonvested interest) in any entity that exists through equity, debt, or other means and includes any indirect ownership or investment interest no matter how many levels removed from a direct interest; or

(2)	A compensation arrangement with an entity.









(b)	Conflict of interest—



Conflict of interest means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person’s objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage.



For purposes of the A/B MAC, the activities and relationships described include those of the Offeror or Contractor itself and other business related to it and those of officers, directors (including medical directors), managers, and subcontractors.



2.	Identification of conflict:

(a)	The Contracting Officer determines that an Offeror or Contractor has a conflict of interest, or the potential for the conflict exists, if-



(1)	The Offeror or Contractor is an entity described in paragraph H.3.c.2.c of this section; or

(2)	The Offeror or Contractor has a present, or establishes a future, direct or indirect financial relationship with an entity described in paragraph H.3.c.2.c of this section.



(b)	A financial relationship may exist either—

(1)	Through an Offeror's or Contractor's parent company, subsidiaries, affiliates, subcontractors, or current clients; or

(2)	From the activities and relationships of the officers, directors (including medical directors), or managers of the Offeror or Contractor and may be either direct or indirect.  An officer, director, or manager has an indirect financial relationship if an ownership or investment interest is held in the name of another but provides benefits to the officer, director, or manager.  



Examples of indirect financial relationships are, but are not limited to, holdings in the name of a spouse or dependent child of the officer, director, or manager and holdings of other relatives who reside with the officer, director, or manager.



(c)	For the purpose of identifying entities with conflicts of interest above, the entity is one that-

(1)	Would review or does review, under the contract, Medicare services furnished by a provider or supplier that is a direct competitor of the Offeror or Contractor;

(2)	Prepared work or is under contract to prepare work that would be reviewed under the A/B MAC contract;

(3)	Is affiliated, as that term is explained in FAR 19.101, with a provider or supplier to be reviewed under the contract.



(d)	The Contracting Officer may determine that an Offeror or Contractor has a conflict of interest, or the potential for a conflict exists, based on the following:

(1)	Apparent conflicts of interest.  An apparent conflict of interest exists if a person believes that the Offeror or Contractor would have a conflict of interest in performing the requirements of a contract under this subpart.  No inappropriate action by the Offeror or Contractor is necessary for an apparent conflict of interest to exist.

(2)	Other contracts and grants with the Federal Government.



3.	Exception.  The Contracting Officer may contract with an Offeror or Contractor that has an unresolved conflict of interest if the Contracting Officer determines that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so.



4.	Offeror's or Contractor's responsibility with regard to subcontractors.  An Offeror or Contractor is responsible for determining whether a conflict of interest exists in any of its proposed or actual subcontractors at any tier and is responsible for ensuring that the subcontractors have mitigated any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest.  The contracting officer shall be notified of such identifications for a determination in accordance with H.3.b.



A Contractor shall maintain documentation necessary to support its determination that its subcontractors have mitigated any conflict or potential conflict.  A Contractor may require its subcontractors to follow the procedures for identifying, evaluating and disclosing conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest as contained herein.



5.	Post-award conflicts of interest.

(a)	In addition to the conflicts identified in this section regardless of when such conflict may arise, the Contracting Officer considers that a conflict of interest has occurred if during the term of the contract—



(1)	The Contractor receives any fee, compensation, gift, payment of expenses, or any other thing of value from any entity that is reviewed or contacted during the normal course of performing activities under the A/B MAC contract; or

(2)	The Contracting Officer determines that the Contractor's activities are creating a conflict of interest.



(b)	In the event the Contracting Officer determines that a conflict of interest exists during the term of the contract, the Contracting Officer may take action including, but not limited to:



(1)	Not renewing the contract for an additional term;

(2)	Modifying the contract; or

(3)	Terminating the contract.




d.	Conflict of Interest Evaluation:



1.	Disclosure.  Offerors that wish to be eligible for the award of an A/B MAC contract under this subpart and A/B MAC contractors, must submit, at times specified in paragraph H.3.d.2. of this section, a Conflicts of Interest Certificate.  The Certificate must contain the information specified in paragraphs H.3.d.1 (a) through (h) of this section as follows:



(a)	A description of all business or contractual relationships or activities that the Contractor’s compliance officer has determined could be viewed as a conflict of interest.

(b)	A description of the methods the Offeror or Contractor will apply to mitigate any situations listed in the Certificate that could be identified as a conflict of interest.

(c)	A description of the Offeror's or Contractor's program to monitor its compliance and the compliance of its proposed and actual subcontractors with the conflict of interest requirements as identified in the relevant solicitation.

(d)	A description of the Offeror's or Contractor's plans to contract with an independent auditor to conduct an annual conflict of interest audit.  (Offerors are advised to clearly indicate costs associated with COI audit in the Business Proposal Narrative, and/or Tab F.1 Business Proposal Assumptions of Volume IIB).  

(e)	A description of all other Medicare contracts held by the Contractor, its parent company, subsidiaries or other affiliated entities.

(f)	An affirmation, using language provided below, signed and dated by an official authorized to bind the Contractor:



I,  (Name and Title), certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief: 1) I am an official authorized to bind the entity; 2) the information contained in the Conflict of Interest Certificate is true and accurate as of    (Date)   ; and 3) I understand that the Contracting Officer may consider any deception or omission in this Certificate to be grounds for non-consideration for contract award, modification or nonrenewal or termination of the current contract, and/or other contract or legal action.



An Offeror shall submit an affirmation certifying the information to be true and accurate as of the date the proposal is submitted.  Upon award, the Contractor shall submit an updated affirmation, if necessary, certifying the information to be accurate as of the date of contract award.



(g)	Corporate and organizational structure.

(h)	Financial interests in other entities, including the following:

(1)	Percentage of ownership in any other entity.

(2)	Income generated from other sources.

(3)	A list of current or known future contracts or arrangements, regardless of size, with any--

(i)	Insurance organization or subcontractor of an insurance organization; or

(ii)	Providers or suppliers furnishing health services for which payment may be made under the Medicare program.

(4)	In the case of contracts or arrangements identified in accordance with paragraph H.3.d.1.(h)(3) of this section, the dollar amount of the contracts or arrangements, the type of work performed, and the period of performance.

(i)	The following information for all of the Offeror's or Contractor's officers, directors (including medical directors), and managers who would be, or are involved with, the performance of this A/B MAC contract:

(1) The information required under paragraphs H.3.d.1 (a), H.3.d.1.(h)(3), and H.3.d.1(h)(4) of this section.

(2) The information specified in paragraphs H.3.d.1(h)(1) and H.3.d.1(h)(2) of this section.



2.	When disclosure is made.  The Conflicts of Interest Certificate is submitted—



(a)	With the Offeror's proposal;

(b)	When the Contracting Officer requests a revision in the Certificate; 

(c)	Within 45 days of any change in the information submitted in accordance with paragraph H.3.d.1 of this section.  The first annual certification shall be submitted on the anniversary date that the contract became fully operational and annually thereafter; and

(d)	As part of the annual conflict of interest certification by an independent auditor.



3.	Evaluation.  The Contracting Officer evaluates conflicts of interest and potential conflicts, using the information provided in the Conflicts of Interest Certificate, and information from other sources in order to promote the effective and efficient administration of the Medicare program. 



For each conflict identified, the Contracting Officer will evaluate the plan proposed to mitigate the conflict to determine if the mitigation plan will allow the Contractor to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government; or the Contractor’s objectivity in performing the contract work is not or will not be otherwise impaired; or the Contractor will not or has not obtained an unfair competitive advantage. 



4.	Protection of proprietary information disclosed.



(a)	CMS protects disclosed proprietary information as allowed under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).

(b)	The Contracting Officer requires signed statements from CMS personnel with access to proprietary information that prohibits personal use during the procurement process and term of the contract.



e.	Conflict of Interest Resolution:   Resolution of a conflict of interest is a determination that:



(1)	The conflict has been mitigated;

(2)	The conflict precludes award of a contract to the Offeror;

(3)	The conflict requires that the Contracting Officer modify an existing contract;

(4)	The conflict requires that the Contracting Officer terminate an existing contract; or

(5)	It is in the best interest of the Government to contract with the Offeror or Contractor even though the conflict exists.



APPROVAL OF CONTRACT ACQUIRED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT)



The Contractor must obtain the Contracting Officer’s written approval prior to the acquisition of any Information Technology (IT) investments over $50,000.00 (see FAR 2.101), for definition of IT) to ensure compatibility and successful integration with CMS’s infrastructure/architecture.

In performance of a system life cycle development project, the Contractor must submit to the COTR the technical specifications for each of the following incremental phase of the projected life cycle prior to the commencement of work.

Design and Engineering

Development, and

Testing

Upon written approval from the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall commence work under the approved technical specification for the authorized incremental phase.



HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY and ACCOUNTABILITY ACT of 1996 (HIPAA) BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROVISION II



HIPAA Business Associate Provision II



Definitions:



All terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning as in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA,” 42 U.S.C. sec. 1320d) and the corresponding implementing regulations.  Provisions governing the Contractor’s duties and obligations under the Privacy Act (including data use agreements) are covered elsewhere in the contract.

"Business Associate'' shall mean the Contractor.

"Covered Entity" shall mean CMS’ Medicare Fee for Service program and/or Medicare’s Prescription Drug Discount Care and Transitional Assistance Programs.

"Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services or the Secretary’s designee.



Obligations and Activities of Business Associate



(a) Business Associate agrees to not use or disclose Protected Health Information (“PHI”), as defined in 45 C.F.R. § 160.103, created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as permitted or required by this Contract or as required by law.

(b) Business Associate agrees to use safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of PHI created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity other than as provided for by this Contract.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to use appropriate administrative, physical and technical safeguards that reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the electronic protected health information (“EPHI”), as defined in 45 C.F.R. 160.103, it creates, receives, maintains or transmits on behalf of the Covered Entity to prevent use or disclosure of such EPHI.

(c) Business Associate agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is known to Business Associate of a use or disclosure of PHI by Business Associate in violation of the requirements of this Contract. 

(d) Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any use or disclosure involving PHI it receives/maintains from/on behalf of the Covered Entity that is not provided for by this Contract of which it becomes aware.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to report to Covered Entity any security incident involving EPHI of which it becomes aware.

(e) Business Associate agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply through this Contract to Business Associate with respect to such information.  Furthermore, Business Associate agrees to ensure that its agents and subcontractors implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards for the PHI received from or on behalf of the Business Associate.

(f) Business Associate agrees to provide access, at the request of Covered Entity, to PHI received by Business Associate in the course of contract performance, to Covered Entity or, as directed by Covered Entity, to an Individual in order to meet the requirements under 45 CFR § 164.524. 

(g) Business Associate agrees to make any amendment(s) to PHI in a Designated Record Set that Covered Entity directs or agrees to pursuant to 45 CFR § 164.526 upon request of Covered Entity.

(h) Business Associate agrees to make internal practices, books, and records, including policies and procedures and PHI, relating to the use and disclosure of PHI received from, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, available to Covered Entity, or to the Secretary for purposes of the Secretary determining Covered Entity's compliance with the various rules implementing the HIPAA. 

(i) Business Associate agrees to document such disclosures of PHI and information related to such disclosures as would be required for Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528.

(j) Business Associate agrees to provide to Covered Entity, or an individual identified by the Covered Entity, information collected under this Contract, to permit Covered Entity to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.528.



Permitted Uses and Disclosures by Business Associate



Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use or disclose PHI on behalf of, or to provide services to, Covered Entity for purposes of the performance of this Contract, if such use or disclosure of PHI would not violate the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules if done by Covered Entity or the minimum necessary policies and procedures of Covered Entity.







Obligations of Covered Entity



(a) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any limitation(s) in its notice of privacy practices of Covered Entity in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.520, to the extent that such limitation may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.

(b) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any changes in, or revocation of, permission by Individual to use or disclose PHI, to the extent that such changes may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.

(c) Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate of any restriction to the use or disclosure of PHI that Covered Entity has agreed to in accordance with 45 CFR § 164.522, to the extent that such restriction may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of PHI.



Permissible Requests by Covered Entity



Covered Entity shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose PHI in any manner that would not be permissible under the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules.



Term of Provision



(a) The term of this Provision shall be effective as of contract award, and shall terminate when all of the PHI provided by Covered Entity to Business Associate, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity, is destroyed or returned to Covered Entity, or, if it is infeasible to return or destroy PHI, protections are extended to such information, in accordance with the termination provisions in this Section.

(b) Upon Covered Entity's knowledge of a material breach by Business Associate, Covered Entity shall either:

(1) Provide an opportunity for Business Associate to cure the breach or end the violation consistent with the termination terms of this Contract.  Covered Entity may terminate this Contract for default if the Business Associate does not cure the breach or end the violation within the time specified by Covered Entity; or

(2) Consistent with the terms of this Contract, terminate this Contract for default if Business Associate has breached a material term of this Contract and cure is not possible; or

(3) If neither termination nor cure is feasible, Covered Entity shall report the violation to the Secretary.

(c) Effect of Termination.

(1)  Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this section, upon termination of this Contract, for any reason, Business Associate shall return or destroy all PHI received from Covered Entity, or created or received by Business Associate on behalf of Covered Entity. This provision shall apply to PHI that is in the possession of subcontractors or agents of Business Associate. Business Associate shall retain no copies of the PHI.

(2) In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying the PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to Covered Entity notification of the conditions that make return or destruction infeasible.  Upon such notice that return or destruction of PHI is infeasible, Business Associate shall extend the protections of this Contract to such PHI and limit further uses and disclosures of such PHI to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as Business Associate maintains such PHI.

Miscellaneous



(a) A reference in this Contract to a section in the Rules issued under HIPAA means the section as in effect or as amended.

(b) The Parties agree to take such action as is necessary to amend this Contract from time to time as is necessary for Covered Entity to comply with the requirements of the Rules issued under HIPAA.

(c) The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under paragraph (c) of the section entitled “term of Provision” shall survive the termination of this Contract.

(d) Any ambiguity in this Contract shall be resolved to permit Covered Entity to comply with the Rules implemented under HIPAA.



SECTION 508 – ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY



This contract is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220).  Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), the EIT must allow Federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to Federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities.

 The EIT accessibility standards at 36 CFR Part 1194 were developed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board ("Access Board") and apply to contracts and task/delivery orders, awarded under indefinite quantity contracts on or after June 25, 2001.

Each Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 1194), as specified in the contract, as a minimum.  If the Contracting Officer determines any furnished product or service is not in compliance with the contract, the Contracting Officer will promptly inform the Contractor in writing.  The Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, repair or replace the non-compliant products or services within the period of time to be specified by the Government in writing.  If such repair or replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following recourses:

Cancellation of the contract, delivery or task order, purchase or line item without termination liabilities; or

In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed by a contractor for the Government, the Government shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm for the noncompliant EIT, with the contractor liable for reimbursement to the Government for any expenses incurred thereby.

The contractor must ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant with the accessibility standards are provided pursuant to extensive market research and are the most current compliant products or services available to satisfy the contract requirements.

For every EIT product or service accepted under this contact by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either a contract specified refresh cycle for the product or service, or on a contract effective option/renewal date; whichever shall occur first.

The contractor shall comply with the Rehabilitation Action, Section 508, Accessibility Standards, as referenced below.



WAGE DETERMINATION



Wage determinations applicable to this work will be requested from the U.S. Department of Labor and will be incorporated at time of award to this contract.  



INDEMNIFICATION



 In the event the Contractor or any of its directors, officers, employees, or other persons who are engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process are made parties to any judicial or administrative proceeding arising, in whole or in part, out of any functions under this contract in connection with any claims for benefits under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act by any individual entitled to such benefits or his assignee or provider of services, then the Secretary shall, to the extent permitted by law and this contract, indemnify the Contractor for all judgments, settlements, awards, and costs, in favor of such individual or his assignee or provider of services, incurred by the Contractor (or any of its directors, officers, or employees, or other persons who are engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process) in connection therewith to the extent that such judgments, settlements, awards and costs relate to the Contractor’s performance of its functions under the contract.  Further, any reasonable administrative expenses directly or indirectly incurred by the Contractor (or any of its directors, officers, or employees, or by other persons who are engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process) in connection with proceedings described in the preceding sentence, shall be reimbursable, to the extent permitted by law and this contract.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to permit the payment of costs not otherwise allowable, reasonable, or allocable under Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.



The Secretary shall not provide indemnification for judgments, settlements, awards, or costs under paragraph A, and the Secretary shall not reimburse expenses as provided for in paragraph A, insofar as the liability for such judgment, settlement, award, or costs arises directly from conduct on the part of the Contractor determined by judicial proceedings or the agency making the award to be criminal in nature, fraudulent, or grossly negligent.  In the event that a judicial or administrative proceeding described in paragraph results in a judgment, settlement, award or claim for costs against the Contractor, but makes no explicit finding regarding the degree of culpability of the Contractor, the Secretary shall not provide indemnification under paragraph A if the CMS contracting officer makes a written determination that the Contractor’s conduct was criminal in nature, fraudulent, or grossly negligent.

If indemnification is provided by the Secretary with respect to the Contractor under paragraph A before a determination is made under paragraph B that the Contractor’s conduct was criminal in nature, fraudulent, or grossly negligent, the Contractor shall reimburse the United States within thirty days of such determination (or earlier if another date is ordered by a judicial or administrative proceeding described in paragraph A) for the amount of any indemnification paid by the United States in the discharge of the Secretary’s obligations under paragraph A; provided, however, the Contractor shall not be required to reimburse the United States that portion of an award or judgment directly attributable to an allowable program benefit under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act.

In the event the Contractor (or any of its directors, officers, employees or other persons who are engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process) is a party to any judicial or administrative proceeding described in paragraph A above, and proposes to negotiate a settlement or compromise of such proceeding prior to final judicial or administrative determination, the Contractor must first obtain the prior written approval of the CMS contracting officer.

Any indemnification under paragraph A above with respect to amounts paid under a settlement or compromise of a proceeding described in such paragraph are conditioned upon prior written approval by the CMS contracting officer of the final settlement or compromise.  Administrative expenses (including expenses for outside counsel) which are incurred in connection with any settlement or compromise of any proceeding described in paragraph A shall only be reimbursable if such settlement was entered into with the prior written approval of the CMS contracting officer.

The availability of indemnification under paragraph A does not extend to judgments, settlements, awards, or costs relating to judicial or administrative proceedings against the Contractor (or any of its directors, officers, employees, or other persons who are engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process) that do not arise from or relate to the functions of the Contractor under this contract (and which have no connection with claims for benefits under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act by any individual entitled to such benefits or his assignee or provider of services) or that arise from or relate to a violation of federal, state or local laws (except for that portion of any such judgment, settlement, award, or cost directly attributable to an allowable program benefit under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act).

If any judicial or administrative proceeding described in paragraph A is initiated against the Contractor (or any of its directors, officers, employees, or other persons engaged or retained by the Contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process), the Contractor shall promptly notify the CMS contracting officer and the Office of General Counsel, Department of Health & Human Services as to the nature and venue of the proceeding.  The Contractor shall cooperate fully and promptly with all requests for documents and assistance from CMS, such Office of General Counsel, the Department of Justice and any other agency operating within its lawful authority in connection with the investigation or defense of such proceeding.

If the Contractor wishes to engage outside counsel in connection with the defense of a proceeding described in this provision, the Contractor shall notify the CMS contracting officer.  The Contractor shall obtain the prior written approval of the CMS contracting officer for all expenses related to such outside counsel.

The , at its sole discretion, may intervene as the party of interest and undertake the defense of any proceeding described in paragraph A.  Notwithstanding any such action by the , the Contractor shall be reimbursed for outside counsel expenses if reasonable and allowable in accordance with FAR Part 31, and approved in accordance with paragraph H. 

The full extent of indemnification and reimbursement under this provision for any judgments, settlements, awards, and costs shall be limited to five million dollars ($5,000,000) per proceeding, unless and until this contract is modified; provided, however, this limitation shall not apply to that portion of any judgment, settlement, award or cost directly attributable to an allowable program benefit under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act.

DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

The Contractor shall establish and maintain procedures and controls for the purpose of assuring that information contained in its records and obtained from CMS or from others in carrying out functions under this contract will be used by it and disclosed solely as provided in section 1106 of the Social Security Act and its implementing regulations (42 CFR Part 401, subpart B).

PARTICIPATION IN DEMONSTRATIONS

The Contractor shall, at the written request and approval of the Contracting Officer, engage or participate in statistical and research studies pertinent to the program under Parts A and B of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act as the Contracting Officer deems necessary.  These demonstrations may extend beyond the geographical boundaries that otherwise apply to this contract jurisdiction.  The Changes – Cost Reimbursement clause of this contract (FAR 52.243-2) shall apply to such activities.

SEPARATION OF CERTIFICATION AND DISBURSEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES

As a critical element of the system of internal controls required pursuant to this Contract (see C.3.3), the Contractor shall establish and maintain adequate procedures and controls to insure that any Medicare benefit payments pursuant to Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and this contract are made only upon proper certification (or authorization).  In establishing and maintaining such procedures, the Contractor shall provide for separation of the functions of certification and disbursement.  As one element of fulfilling the requirements of the preceding two sentences, the Contractor shall designate one or more individuals to be accountable for the authorizing of Medicare benefit payments (and the certification as to their accuracy). The Contractor shall also designate one or more individuals (who shall not authorize or certify payments) to be accountable for the proper disbursement of such payments.  The Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer with a list of such designated certifying and disbursing officers prior to making any Medicare benefit payments, and should any such officers be unable to continue performing their responsibilities during the term of this contract (including all option periods), the Contractor shall promptly designate a replacement officer (or officers) and notify the Contracting Officer as to the identity of such replacement(s).

FIDELITY BONDS

Upon the written request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall give a fidelity bond to the  in such manner and in such amount as the Contracting Officer may deem appropriate.  The expense of such bond (if required) shall be allowable, to the extent reasonable and allocable in accordance with Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

LIABILITY FOR MEDICARE BENEFIT PAYMENTS – CERTIFYING OFFICER

No individual designated pursuant to this contract as a certifying officer shall, in the absence of the reckless disregard of the individual’s obligations or the intent by that individual to defraud the , be liable with respect to any payment certified by the individual pursuant to this contract.  Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit liability for conduct that would constitute a violation of sections 3729 through 3731 of Title 31, United States Code.

LIABILITY FOR MEDICARE BENEFIT PAYMENTS – DISBURSING OFFICER

No disbursing officer designated pursuant to this contract shall, in the absence of the reckless disregard of the officer’s obligations or the intent by that officer to defraud the United States, be liable with respect to any payments made by such officer under this contract if it was based upon an authorization (which meets the applicable requirements for such internal controls established by the Comptroller General of the United States) of a certifying officer designated pursuant to this contract.  Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit liability for conduct that would constitute a violation of sections 3729 through 3731 of Title 31, United States Code.

LIABILITY FOR MEDICARE BENEFIT PAYMENTS – MEDICARE ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTOR

The Contractor shall not be liable to the  for a payment by a certifying and disbursing officer unless, in connection with such payment, the Contractor acted with reckless disregard of its obligations under this contract or with intent to defraud the .  Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit liability for conduct that would constitute a violation of sections 3729 through 3731 of Title 31, United States Code.

LIABILITY FOR UNCOLLECTED OVERPAYMENTS

No certifying officer or disbursing officer shall be held liable for any amount certified or paid by such officer under this contract to any provider of services or other person where adjustment or recovery of such amount (as authorized by section 1870 of the Social Security Act, 42 United States Code 1395gg and this contract) is waived pursuant to such section 1870(c) or where adjustment authorized under section 1870(b) is not completed prior to the death of all persons against whose benefits such adjustment is authorized.

RECORD RETENTION

The contractor is responsible for records retention as defined in the Internet Only Manuals – IOM Pub 100-01, Chapter 7, Section 30 Files Maintenance.  The section regarding Records Retention can be located at: 



http://www.cms.hhs.gov/manuals/downloads/ge101c07.pdf



REPORTABLE EVENTS 

The Contractor shall report to the CMS Contracting Officer and the CMS COTR whenever a known, probable or suspected reportable event, as defined below, is discovered.  Reports to CMS shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth below.

Definition of “Reportable Event.”  A “Reportable Event” means anything that involves the following:  (1) a matter that a reasonable person would consider a violation of criminal, civil or administrative laws applicable to any Medicare contract or Federal health care program; or (2) integrity violations, including any known, probable or suspected violation of any Medicare contract term or provision.  A reportable event may be the result of an isolated event or a series of occurrences.  Reportable events that are subject to reporting under these procedures include reportable events that occur at the Contractor or any of its subcontractors, consultants, vendors or agents.

If the Contractor discovers, through any means, a known, probable or suspected reportable event, the Contractor shall provide to CMS an initial written report within 30 calendar days of discovering the reportable event.  Within 45 calendar days of the date of the initial report, the Contractor shall provide to CMS a written final investigative report on the reportable event.  If the Contractor is unable to complete its investigation within this 45-day period, the Contractor shall provide to CMS a written request for an extension of time to complete its investigation and submit its final written investigative report.  The request for an extension of time must specify the reasons for the request and a proposed new due date for the final written investigative report.  The Contractor shall submit its written final investigative report by this new due date, unless the CMS contracting officer specifies another due date in writing.

The Contractor’s initial written report shall include the following information:

If the reportable event is the result of a known, probable or suspected violation of criminal, civil or administrative law or a violation of a Medicare contract term or provision, the report shall describe the reportable event with as much specificity as possible, including the following:

The law, regulation or contract term implicated.

The persons involved and the department(s) within the Contractor’s operation that are affected.

The time period of the reportable event.

A determination as to the extent that the reportable event has affected, or is affecting performance under the contract.

Any corrective action taken, or intended to be taken, by the Contractor.

If the reportable event results in a significant overpayment, relating to either the Medicare Trust Funds or contractual administrative costs, the report must describe the overpayment with as much specificity as possible as of the time of the due date for the submission of the report, including the following:

The amount of the overpayment.  If the overpayment has not been quantified, the contractor must provide its best estimate of the amount of the overpayment.

The nature of the overpayment and the reason for the overpayment.

The time period of the overpayment.

Any corrective action taken, or intended to be taken, by the Contractor.

The Contractor’s plan to recover or repay the overpayment in accordance with the requirements of law, regulation, and this contract relating to Medicare Trust Fund payments and contractual administrative costs (whichever may apply in the particular case).

The final written report shall include the following information:

The report shall address all the required information for the initial written report, as described above.

A statement as to whether the Contractor considered changing any policies and procedures or retraining its employees to prevent the recurrence of this or other similar reportable events.  If policies and procedures were changed, or retraining occurred, or will occur, the Contractor shall describe the changes and/or the training that has been done or will be done in the future.

A corrective action plan prepared in accordance with CMS policies and procedures.

A statement that the Contractor’s internal investigative file on the reportable event is available to CMS for audit, inspection or reproduction.

The name(s) of the person(s) who conducted the investigation.

The Contractor shall submit its initial and final written reports, as well as any request for extension of due dates for such reports under this provision, to the Contracting Officer, the COTR, the CMS Compliance Officer and/or their designees.

WORK PERFORMED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND ITS TERRITORIES

It is the Government’s intention that all work under this contract shall be performed within the United States.  The contractor, and its subcontractors, shall not perform any activities under this contract at a location outside the United States without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer.   In making a decision to authorize the performance of work outside the United States, the Contracting Officer will consider the following factors, including but not limited to:



All contract terms regarding system security

All contract terms regarding the confidentiality and privacy requirements for information and data protection

All contract terms that are otherwise relevant, including the provisions of the SOW

Corporate compliance

All laws and regulations applicable to the performance of work outside the 

The best interests of the 

In order to secure the Contracting Officer’s authorization to perform work outside the , the contractor must demonstrate that the performance of work outside the  satisfies all of the above factors.  If, in the Contracting Officer’s judgment, the above factors are not fully satisfied, the performance of work outside the  will not be authorized.





In preparing a proposal to meet this requirement, particular attention should be given to:





H.20	



































SYSTEMS OF RECORDS  



The Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, and the Regulations and General Instructions issued by the Secretary pursuant thereto, are applicable to this contract, and to all subcontractors there under to the extent that the design, development, operation or maintenance of a system of records as defined in the Privacy Act is involved.  The following system of records will be applicable to this contract and made available to the Contractor:    





SECURITY CLAUSE -BACKGROUND - INVESTIGATIONS FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL 

Security Clause -Background - Investigations for Contractor Personnel:

If applicable, Contractor personnel performing services for CMS under this contract, task order or delivery order shall be required to undergo a background investigation. CMS will initiate and pay for any required background investigation(s).

After contract award, the CMS COTR and the Security and Emergency Management Group (SEMG), with the assistance of the Contractor, shall perform a position-sensitivity analysis based on the duties contractor personnel shall perform on the contract, task order or delivery order.  The results of the position-sensitivity analysis will determine first, whether the provisions of this clause are applicable to the contract and second, if applicable, determine each position’s sensitivity level (i.e., high risk, moderate risk or low risk) and dictate the appropriate level of background investigation to be processed.  Investigative packages may contain the following forms:  

SF-85,  , 09/1995

SF-85P, , 09/1995

OF-612, , 12/2002

OF-306, , 01/2001 



FD-258, , 5/99, and 

CMS-730A,  (NON-CMS PERSONS ONLY), 11/2003.  

The Contractor personnel shall be required to undergo a background investigation commensurate with one of these position-sensitivity levels:

 High Risk (Level 6)

Public Trust positions that would have a potential for exceptionally serious impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service. This would include computer security of a major automated information system (AIS).  This includes positions in which the incumbent’s actions or inaction could diminish public confidence in the integrity, efficiency, or effectiveness of assigned government activities, whether or not actual damage occurs, particularly if duties are especially critical to the agency or program mission with a broad scope of responsibility and authority. 

Major responsibilities that would require this level include:

Development and administration of CMS computer security programs, including direction and control of risk analysis and/or threat assessment;

Significant involvement in mission-critical systems;

Preparation or approval of data for input into a system which does not necessarily involve personal access to the system but with relatively high risk of causing grave damage or realizing significant personal gain;

Other responsibilities that involve relatively high risk of causing damage or realizing personal gain;

Policy implementation;

Higher level management duties/assignments or major program responsibility; or

Independent spokespersons or non-management position with authority for independent action.

Moderate Risk (Level 5)

Level 5 Public Trust positions include those involving policymaking, major program responsibility, and law enforcement duties that are associated with a “Moderate Risk.”  Also included are those positions involving access to or control of unclassified sensitive, proprietary information, or financial records, and those with similar duties through which the incumbent can realize a significant personal gain or cause serious damage to the program or Department.

Responsibilities that would require this level include:

The direction, planning, design, operation, or maintenance of a computer system and whose work is technically reviewed by a higher authority at the High Risk level to ensure the integrity of the system;

Systems design, operation, testing, maintenance, and/or monitoring that are carried out under the technical review of a higher authority at the High Risk level;

Access to and/or processing of information requiring protection under the Privacy Act of 1974;

Assists in policy development and implementation;

Mid-level management duties/assignments;

Any position with responsibility for independent or semi-independent action; or

Delivery of service positions that demand public confidence or trust.

Low Risk (Level 1)

Positions having the potential for limited interaction with the agency or program mission, so the potential for impact on the integrity and efficiency of the service is small.  This includes computer security impact on AIS.

The Contractor shall submit the investigative package(s) to SEMG within three (3) days after being advised by the SEMG of the need to submit packages.  Investigative packages shall be submitted to the following address: 





The Contractor shall submit a copy of the transmittal letter to the Contracting Officer (CO). 

Contractor personnel shall submit a CMS-730A (Request for Badge) to the SEMG (see link under 7 CMS-730A above).  The Contractor and the COTR shall obtain all necessary signatures on the CMS-730A prior to any Contractor employee arriving for fingerprinting and badge processing.  

The Contractor must appoint a Security Investigation Liaison as a point of contact to resolve any issues of inaccurate or incomplete form(s).  Where personal information is involved, SEMG may need to contact the contractor employee directly.  The Security Investigation Liaison may be required to facilitate such contact.

SEMG will fingerprint contractor personnel and send their completed investigative package to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  OPM will conduct the background investigation.  Badges will not be provided by SEMG until acceptable finger print results are received; until then the contractor employee will be considered an escorted visitor.  The Contractor remains fully responsible for ensuring contract, task order or delivery order performance pending completion of background investigations of contractor personnel.

SEMG shall provide written notification to the CO with a copy to the COTR of all suitability decisions.  The COTR shall then notify the Contractor in writing of the approval of the Contractor’s employee(s), at that time the Contractor’s employee(s) will receive a permanent identification badge.  Contractor personnel who the SEMG determines to be ineligible may be required to cease working on the contract immediately.

The Contractor shall report immediately in writing to SEMG with copies to the CO and the COTR, any adverse information regarding any of its employees that may impact their ability to perform under this contract, task order or delivery order.  Reports should be based on reliable and substantiated information, not on rumor or innuendo.  The report shall include the contractor employee’s name and social security number, along with the adverse information being reported.  

Contractor personnel shall be provided an opportunity to explain or refute unfavorable information found in an investigation to SEMG before an adverse adjudication is made.   Contractor personnel may request, in writing, a copy of their own investigative results by contacting:  









The Contractor must immediately provide written notification to SEMG (with copies to the CO and the COTR) of all terminations or resignations of Contractor personnel working on this contract, task order or delivery order.  The Contractor must also notify SEMG (with copies to the CO and the COTR) when a Contractor’s employee is no longer working on this contract, task order or delivery order.  

At the conclusion of the contract, task order or delivery order and at the time when a contractor employee is no longer working on the contract, task order or delivery order due to termination or resignation, all CMS-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys must be promptly returned to SEMG.  Contractor personnel who do not return their government-issued parking permits, identification badges, access cards, and/or keys within 48 hours of the last day of authorized access shall be permanently barred from the CMS complex and subject to fines and penalties authorized by applicable federal and State laws.  

Work Performed Outside the United States and its Territories:

The contractor, and its subcontractors, shall not perform any activities under this contract at a location outside of the , including the transmission of data or other information outside the , without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer.  The factors that the Contracting Officer will consider in making a decision to authorize the performance of work outside the United States include, but are not limited to the following:

All contract terms regarding system security

All contract terms regarding the confidentiality and privacy requirements for information and data protection

All contract terms that are otherwise relevant, including the provisions of the SOW

Corporate compliance

All laws and regulations applicable to the performance of work outside the 

The best interest of the 

In requesting the Contracting Officer’s authorization to perform work outside the , the contractor must demonstrate that the performance of the work outside the  satisfies all of the above factors.  If, in the Contracting Officer’s judgment, the above factors are not fully satisfied, the performance of work outside the  will not be authorized.  Any approval to employ or outsource work outside of the  must have the concurrence of the CMS SEMG Director or designee.

CODE OF CONDUCT

SMOKING

Effective June 9, 2004, smoking is not permitted anywhere on the CMS single site campus.  This includes all areas outside the building, such as off-site facility, entranceways, sidewalks and parking areas.  Smoking will not be permitted anywhere in Regional Offices or  Office locations unless permitted by GSA guidelines or local landlord requirements.  Contractor employees are subject to the same restrictions as government personnel.  Fines up to $50 per occurrence will be issued and enforced by the Federal Protective Service.  

DRESS

The preferred dress codes at CMS facilities are professional attire, business attire or business casual attire. 

CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION(S)

In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 42.15, CMS will complete annual and final contractor performance evaluations.  Annual evaluations will be prepared to coincide with the anniversary date of the contract.  Additional interim performance evaluations may be prepared at Contracting Officer discretion, as necessary. Final performance evaluations will be completed upon contract expiration.

CMS will utilize the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) in order to execute annual and final contractor performance evaluations. CPARS is a secure Internet website located at .  CMS will register the contractor in CPARS upon receipt of the name and email address of two (2) individuals who will be responsible for serving as the Contractor’s primary and alternate CPARS contacts.  Once CMS registers the contractor in CPARS, the Contractor will receive an automated CPARS email message that contains User IDs and instructions for creating a password.  

Once a performance evaluation is issued, the Contractor’s primary and alternate CPARS contact will receive an email instructing them to logon to CPARS in order to review the performance evaluation.  The Contractor has 30 days from the date of performance evaluation issuance in which to review the evaluation.  If the Contractor is in agreement with the performance evaluation outcome, the evaluation becomes final.  Should the Contractor be in disagreement with the performance evaluation outcome, rebuttal comments must be submitted via the CPARS within 30 days from date the evaluation was issued by CMS.  Any disagreement between the Contracting Officer and the Contractor will be referred to the Deputy Director, CMS Office of Acquisition and Grants Management, whose decision will be final.

Copies of each performance evaluation and contractor responses, if any, will be retained as part of the official contract file and will be used to support future award decisions. Evaluations will also be stored for a 3-year period in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) at .

Contractors may obtain CPARS training material and register for on-line training at . There is no fee for registration or use of the CPARS.  

PRIVACY ACT ‘SYSTEMS NOTICE’

The contractor will be required to sign a Privacy Act notice when it applies for a CMS user ID for CMS Data Center access. 

PUBLICITY

Any news release, public announcement, advertisement, or publicity proposed to be released by the Contractor or subcontractor will be subject to the written approval of CMS prior to release.

FEDERAL INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT ACT (FISMA)

This clause applies to all organizations which possess or use Federal information, or which operate, use or have access to Federal information systems (whether automated or manual), on behalf of CMS.

The central tenet of the CMS Information Security (IS) Program is that all CMS information and information systems shall be protected from unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse, or theft—whether accidental or intentional.  The security safeguards to provide this protection shall be risk-based and business-driven with implementation achieved through a multi-layered security structure.  All information access shall be limited based on a least-privilege approach and a need-to-know basis, i.e., authorized user access is only to information necessary in the performance of required tasks.  Most of CMS' information relates to the health care provided to the nation’s Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and as such, has access restrictions as required under legislative and regulatory mandates.  

The CMS IS Program has a two-fold purpose: 

To enable CMS’ business processes to function in an environment with commensurate security protections, and 

To meet the security requirements of federal laws, regulations, and directives.

The principal legislation for the CMS IS Program is Public Law (P.L.) 107-347, Title III, Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), .  FISMA places responsibility and accountability for IS at all levels within federal agencies as well as those entities acting on their behalf.  FISMA directs Office of Management and Budget (OMB) through the Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), to establish the standards and guidelines for federal agencies in implementing FISMA and managing cost-effective programs to protect their information and information systems.  As a contractor acting on behalf of CMS, this legislation requires that the Contractor shall:

Establish senior management level responsibility for IS,

Define key IS roles and responsibilities within their organization,

Comply with a minimum set of controls established for protecting all Federal information, and

Act in accordance with CMS reporting rules and procedures for IS.

Additionally, the following laws, regulations and directives and any revisions or replacements of same have IS implications and are applicable to all CMS contractors.

P.L. 93-579, The Privacy Act of 1974,  , (as amended);

P.L. 99-474, Computer Fraud & Abuse Act of 1986,    P.L. 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1978, as amended in 1995, U.S. Code 44 Chapter 35, ;

P.L. 104-208, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act), ; 

P.L. 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (formerly known as the Kennedy-Kassenbaum Act) ;

OMB Circular No. A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, December 21, 2004, ;

OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 30, 2000, ; 

NIST standards and guidance, ; and,

Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) regulations, policies, standards and guidance 

These laws and regulations provide the structure for CMS to implement and manage a cost-effective IS program to protect its information and information systems.  Therefore, the Contractor shall monitor and adhere to all IT policies, standards, procedures, directives, templates, and guidelines that govern the CMS IS Program,  and the CMS System Lifecycle Framework, .  

The Contractor shall comply with the CMS IS Program requirements by performing, but not limited to, the following:

Implement their own IS program that adheres to CMS IS policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines, as well as industry best practices; 

Participate and fully cooperate with CMS IS audits, reviews, evaluations, tests, and assessments of contractor systems, processes, and facilities;

Provide upon request results from any other audits, reviews, evaluations, tests and/or assessments that involve CMS information or information systems;

Report and process corrective actions for all findings, regardless of the source, in accordance with CMS procedures;

Document its compliance with CMS security requirements and maintain such documentation in the systems security profile;

Prepare and submit in accordance with CMS procedures, an incident report to CMS of any suspected or confirmed incidents that may impact CMS information or information systems; and

Participate in CMS IT information conferences as directed by CMS.

If the contractor believes that an updated IS-related requirement posted to the CMS website may result in a significant cost impact, the contractor may submit a request for equitable cost adjustment before implementing change.

H-27.	Reporting Changes in Contractor Team Arrangements, and Acquisitions/Divestitures 



In accordance with CMS’s implementation of a contract award limitation A/B MAC contractors shall report to the Contracting Officer the following changes regarding contractor team arrangements, and/or acquisitions/divestitures immediately following the completion of the change.  

Affiliate arrangement/joint venture between two prime A/B MAC contractors has a material change in the contractor team arrangement.

A/B MAC contractor acquires/divests another contractor holding one or more A/B MAC contract(s).

The following specific definitions shall apply:

A/B MACs:  Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) under section 1874 A of the Social Security Act that administer claims for Medicare Part A and Part B  benefits (with the exception of DMEPOS claims  as defined at 42 CFR 421.210).

Affiliates:  This term shall have the meaning provided at FAR 2.101.

Contractor Team Arrangements:  This term shall have the meaning provided at FAR 9.601.

CONTRACT CLAUSES

FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es) :

52.202-1	DEFINITIONS (JUL 2004)

52.203-3	GRATUITIES (APR 1984)

52.203-5	COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984)

52.203-6	RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACT OR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006)

52.203-7	ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010)

52.203-8	CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)

52.203-10	PRICE OR FEE ADJUSTMENT FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997)

52.203-11	CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007)

52.203-12	LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (OCT 2010)

52.203-13	CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010)

52.204-4	PRINTING/COPYING DOUBLE-SIDED ON RECYCLED PAPER. (AUG 2000)

52.204-7	CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

52.204-9	PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICSTION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011)

52.204-10	Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) 



52.209-6	PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENTS INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (DEC 2010)

52.215-2	AUDIT AND RECORDS--NEGOTIATION (OCT 2010)

52.215-6	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 1997)

52.215-8	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE - UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997)

52.215-10	PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)

52.215-11	PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR PRICING DATA -- MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010)

52.215-12	SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)

52.215-13	SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA -- MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010)

52.215-15	PENSION ADJUSTMENTS AND ASSET REVERSIONS (OCT 2010)

52.215-17	WAIVER OF FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (OCT 1997)

52.215-18	REVERSION OR ADJUSTMENT OF PLANS FOR POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (PRB) OTHER THAN PENSIONS (JUL 2005)

52.215-21	REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA -- MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010), ALTERNATE IV (OCT 2010)

52.215-22	LIMITATIONS ON PASS-THROUGH CHARGES – IDENTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACT EFFORT (OCT 2009)

52.215-23	LIMITATIONS ON PASS-THROUGH CHARGES (OCT 2009)

52.216-24	LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT LIABILITY (APR 1984)

52.216-25	CONTRACT DEFINITIZATION (OCT 2010)

52.217-8	OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

52.217-9	OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

52.219-4	NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION PREFERENCE FOR HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011)

52.219-8	UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011)

52.219-9	SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011), ALTERNATE II (OCT 2001)

52.219-16	LIQUIDATED DAMAGES-SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999)

52.219-28	POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (Apr 2009)

52.222-3	CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)

52.222-21	PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)

52.222-26	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007)

52.222-35	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR SPECIAL DISABLED VETERANS OF THE VIETNAM ERA, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE VETERANS (SEP 2010)

52.222-36	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010)

52.222-37	EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON SPECIAL DISABLED VETERANS, VETERANS OF THE VIETNAM ERA, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE VETERANS (SEP 2010)

52.222-41	SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965, AS AMENDED (NOV 2007)

52.222-46	EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993)

52.222-49	SERVICE CONTRACT ACT – PLACE OF PERFORMANCE UNKNOWN (MAY 1989)

52.222-50	COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)

52.222-54	EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JAN 2009)

52.223-6	DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)

52.223-13	CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)

52.223-14	TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)

52.223-17	AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT OF EPA-DESIGNATED ITEMS IN SERVICE AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS (MAY 2008)

52.223-18	CONTRACTOR POLICY TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (SEP 2010)

52.224-1	PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)

52.224-2	PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)

52.225-13	RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)

52.225-25	PROHIBITION ON ENGAGING IN SANCTIONED ACTIVITIES RELATING TO IRAN – CERTIFIATION (SEP 2010)

52.227-14	RIGHTS IN DATA – GENERAL (DEC 2007)

52.227-17	RIGHTS IN DATA – SPECIAL WORKS (DEC 2007)

52.227-23	RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA (TECHNICAL) (JUN 1987)

52.230-2	COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (OCT 2010)

52.230-3	DISCLOSURE AND CONSISTENCY OF COST ACCOUNTING PRACTICES (OCT 2008)

52.230-6	ADMINISTRATION OF COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (JUN 2010)

52.232-9	LIMITATION ON WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS (APR 1984)

52.232-17	INTEREST (OCT 2010)

52.232-22	LIMITATION OF FUNDS (APR 1984)

52.232-23	ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986)

52.232-25	PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2008) – ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2002)

52.232-33	PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER – CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)

52.233-1	DISPUTES (JUL 2002) -- ALTERNATE I (DEC 1991)  

52.233-2	SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

52.233-3	PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996) ALTERNATE I (JUNE 1985)

52.233-4	APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)

52.237-3	CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)

52.239-1	PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)

52.242-2 	PRODUCTION PROGRESS REPORTS (APR 1991)

52.242-13	BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)

52.244-6	SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2010)

52.245-1	GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (AUG 2010)

52.245-9	USES AND CHARGES (AUG 2010)

52.246-25	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY - SERVICES (FEB 1997)

52.252-4	ALTERATIONS IN CONTRACT (APR 1984)

52.253-1	COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)

	The following clauses are applicable to cost reimbursement contracts:

52.216-7	ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002)

52.216-8	FIXED FEE (MAR 1997)

52.232-20	LIMITATION OF COST (APR 1984)

52.242-1	NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS (APR 1984)

52.242-3	PENALTIES FOR UNALLOWABLE COSTS (MAY 2001)

52.242-4	CERTIFICATION OF FINAL INDIRECT COSTS (JAN 1997)

52.243-2	CHANGES – COST-REIMBURSEMENT (AUG 1987) – ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)

52.244-2	SUBCONTRACTS (OCT 2010) – ALT I (JUN 2007)

52.244-5	COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)

52.249-6	TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT) (MAY 2004)

52.249-14	EXCUSABLE DELAYS (APR 1984)

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (HHSAR)

	

FAR 52.203-14 – DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTER(S) (DEC 2007)

Definition.

“,” as used in this clause, means the 50 States, the District of , and outlying areas.

Display of fraud hotline poster(s). Except as provided in paragraph (c)—

During contract performance in the , the Contractor shall prominently display in common work areas within business segments performing work under this contract and at contract work sites—

Any agency fraud hotline poster or Department of Homeland Security (DHS) fraud hotline poster identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this clause; and

Any DHS fraud hotline poster subsequently identified by the Contracting Officer.

Additionally, if the Contractor maintains a company website as a method of providing information to employees, the Contractor shall display an electronic version of the poster(s) at the website.

Any required posters may be obtained as follows:



(Contracting Officer shall insert—

Appropriate agency name(s) and/or title of applicable Department of Homeland Security fraud hotline poster); and 

The website(s) or other contact information for obtaining the poster(s).)

C.  If the Contractor has implemented a business ethics and conduct awareness program, including a reporting mechanism, such as a hotline poster, then the Contractor need not display any agency fraud hotline posters as required in paragraph (b) of this clause, other than any required DHS posters.

D.  Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed $5,000,000, except when the subcontract—

 Is for the acquisition of a commercial item; or

Is performed entirely outside the .

FAR 52.209-7 INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JAN 2011)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Administrative proceeding” means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. 

“Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000” means— 

(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and 

 (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). 

(b) The Offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. 

(c) If the Offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the Offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: 

(1) Whether the Offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the Offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: 

(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. 

(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. 

(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in— 

(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or 

(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. 

(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. 

(2) If the Offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c) (1) of this provision, whether the Offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. 

(d) The Offeror shall enter the information in paragraphs (c) (1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at  (see ). 

“Principal” means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). 



FAR 52.215-19 NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT 1997)



The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing:



When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) within 30 days.

The Contractor shall also notify the ACO within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership.





The Contractor shall—

Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs;

Provide the ACO or designated representative ready access to the records upon request;

Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor’s ownership changes; and

Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change.

The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).

FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 60 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months.

FAR 52.222-2 PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS (JUL 1990)

The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium does not exceed 2% of Direct Labor Dollars or the overtime premium is paid for work— 

Necessary to cope with emergencies such as those resulting from accidents, natural disasters, breakdowns of production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature;

By indirect-labor employees such as those performing duties in connection with administration, protection, transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation of utilities, or accounting;

To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances, and operations in flight or afloat that are continuous in nature and cannot reasonably be interrupted or completed otherwise; or

That will result in lower overall costs to the Government.

Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall—

Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with present workload, staffing, and other data of the affected unit sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the necessity for the overtime;

Demonstrate the effect that denial of the request will have on the contract delivery or performance schedule; 

Identify the extent to which approval of overtime would affect the performance or payments in connection with other Government contracts, together with identification of each affected contract; and

Provide reasons why the required work cannot be performed by using multi-shift operations or by employing additional personnel. 

HHSAR 352.224-70 PRIVACY ACT (JAN 2006)

This contract requires the Contractor to perform one or more of the following: (a) Design; (b) develop; or (c) operate a Federal agency system of records to accomplish an agency function in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Act) (5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)) and applicable agency regulations. The term ``system of records'' means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. Violations of the 

Act by the Contractor and/or its employees may result in the imposition of criminal penalties (5 U.S.C. 552a (i)). The Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees knows the prescribed rules of conduct and that each employee is aware that he/she is subject to criminal penalties for violation of the Act to the same extent as Department of Health and Human Services employees. These provisions also apply to all subcontracts the Contractor awards under this contract which require the design, development or operation of the designated system(s) of records [5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)]. The contract work statement: (a) identifies the system(s) of records and the design, development, or operation work the Contractor is to perform; and (b) specifies the disposition to be made of such records upon completion of contract performance.



HHSAR 352.242-73 WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS (JAN 2006)

Notwithstanding any other payment provisions of this contract, failure of the Contractor to submit required reports when due or failure to perform or deliver required work, supplies, or services, may result in the withholding of payments under this contract unless such failure arises out of causes beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as defined by the clause entitled ``Excusable Delays'' or ``Default,'' as applicable. The Government will immediately notify the Contractor of its intention to withhold payment of any invoice or voucher submitted.



HHSAR 352.249-14 EXCUSABLE DELAYS (JAN 2006)

Except with respect to failures of subcontractors, the Contractor shall not be considered to have failed in performance of this contract if such failure arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor.

Such causes may include, but are not restricted to, acts of God or of the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, freight embargoes, and unusually severe weather, but in every case the failure to perform must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. If the failure to perform is caused by the failure of a subcontractor to perform, and if such failure arises out of causes beyond the control of both the Contractor and subcontractor, and without the fault or negligence of either of them, the Contractor shall not be deemed to have failed in performance of the contract, unless:

The supplies or services to be furnished by the subcontractor were obtainable from other sources, 

The Contracting Officer ordered the Contractor in writing to procure such supplies or services from such other sources, and 

The Contractor failed to comply with such order. 

Upon request of the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall ascertain the facts and extent of such failure and if the Contracting Officer determines that any failure to perform was caused by circumstances beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, the delivery schedule shall be revised accordingly, subject to the rights of the Government under the termination clause contained in this contract. (As used in this clause, the terms ‘‘subcontractor’’ and ‘‘subcontractors’’ mean subcontractor(s) at any tier.) 

HHSAR 352.201-70 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (JAN 2006)

(a) This contract involves a requirement to collect or record information calling either for answers to identical questions from 10 or more persons other than Federal employees, or information from Federal employees which is outside the scope of their employment, for use by the Federal government or disclosure to third parties; therefore, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) shall apply to this contract. No plan, questionnaire, interview guide or other similar device for collecting information (whether repetitive or single time) may be used without the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) first providing clearance. 

Contractors and the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative shall be guided by the provisions of 5 CFR Part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, and seek the advice of the HHS operating division or Office of the Secretary Reports Clearance Officer to determine the procedures for acquiring OMB clearance.

(b) The Contractor shall not expend any funds or begin any data collection until OMB Clearance is received. Once OMB Clearance is received from the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative, the Contracting Officer shall provide the Contractor with written notification authorizing the expenditure of funds and the collection of data. The Contractor shall allow at least 120 days for OMB clearance. The Contracting Officer will consider excessive delays caused by the Government which arise out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor in accordance with the Excusable Delays or Default clause of this contract.



HHSAR 352.203–70 ANTI-LOBBYING (JAN 2006)

Pursuant to the current HHS annual appropriations act, except for normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, the Contractor shall not use any HHS contract funds for (i) publicity or propaganda purposes; (ii) the preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or video presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State legislature itself; or (iii) payment of salary or expenses of the Contractor, or any agent acting for the Contractor, related to any activity designed to influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or any State legislature.



HHSAR 352.239-73 ELECTRONIC INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY (JAN 2010)

(a) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR 

Part 1194), require that, unless an exception applies, all EIT products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used by any Federal department or agency permit--

    (1) Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and

    (2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from a Federal agency to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities.

    (b) Accordingly, any vendor submitting a proposal/quotation/bid in response to this solicitation must demonstrate compliance with the established EIT accessibility standards. Information about Section 508 is available at . The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at .

    (c) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this solicitation are identified in the Statement of Work/Specification/Performance Work Statement. In order to facilitate the Government's evaluation to determine whether EIT products and services proposed meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, Offerors must prepare an HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, in accordance with its completion instructions, and provide a binding statement of conformance. The purpose of the template is to assist HHS acquisition and program officials in determining that EIT products and services proposed support applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. The template allows vendors or developers to self-evaluate their products or services and document in detail how they do or do not conform to a specific Section 508 accessibility standard. Instructions for preparing the HHS Section 508 Evaluation Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability Web site ().

    (d) Respondents to this solicitation must also provide any additional detailed information necessary for determining applicable Section 508 accessibility standards conformance, as well as for documenting EIT products or services that are incidental to the project, which would constitute an exception to Section 508 requirements. If a vendor claims its products or services, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in its completed HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, and it is later determined by the Government--i.e., after award of a contract/order, that products or services delivered do not conform to the described accessibility standards in the Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance specified in the vendor's Product Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor and at its expense.

    (End of provision)



    








LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 

The Attachments are located at the end of the solicitation.

*Note:  Attachments will not be made a part of any resultant contract.


REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS 

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFEROR:  [THE REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS MUST BE EXECUTED BY AN INDIVIDUAL AUTHORIZED TO BIND THE OFFEROR]

The Offeror makes the following Representations and Certifications as part of its proposal (check or complete all appropriate boxes or blanks on the following pages).



FAR 52.204-7 CONTRACTOR CENTRAL REGISTRATION (CCR) (APR 2008)

The Offeror certifies that it has registered at , as required by FAR 52.204-7.

K.3	CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORTING SYSTEM (CPARS)

In accordance with the past performance requirements of the FAR, CMS requires each contractor to register with the CPARS.  CPARS is a web-enabled system that collects and manages the library of automated Contractor Performance Assessment Reports.  Registration information is provided at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil. 

K.4	 FAR 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (JAN 2011) 



(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 524114. 

(2) The small business size standard is $7 million. 

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b)(1) If the clause at , Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. 

(2) If the clause at  is not included in this solicitation, and the Offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the Offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The Offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: 

[  ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. 

[  ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the Offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. 

(c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: 

(i) , Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless— 

(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in ; 

(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or 

(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. 

(ii) , Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $100,000. 

(iii) , Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at , Central Contractor Registration. 

(iv) , Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that— 

(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; 

(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and 

(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 

(v) , Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(vi) , Place of Performance—Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. 

(vii) , Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. 

(viii) , Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 

(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. 

(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. 

(ix) , Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 

(x) , Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at , Equal Opportunity. 

(xi) , Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at , Equal Opportunity. 

(xii) , Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. 

(xiii) , Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA–designated items; or include the clause at , Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. 

(xiv) , Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA–designated items. 

(xv) , Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 

(xvi) , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 

(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. 

(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. 

(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. 

(xvii) , Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 

(xviii) , Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification. 

(xix) , Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to— 

(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and 

(B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. 

(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__ (i) , Small Business Concern Representation for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. 

__ (ii) , Small Business Size Representation for Targeted Industry Categories Under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. 

__ (iii) , Small Disadvantaged Business Status. 

__ (A) Basic. 

__ (B) Alternate I. 

__ (iv) , Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. 

__ (v) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. 

__ (vi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services–Certification. 

__ (vii) , with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Products (Alternate I only). 

__ (viii) , Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting. 

__ (ix) , Royalty Information. 

__ (A) Basic. 

__(B) Alternate I. 

__ (x) , Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. 

(d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the Offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ); except for the changes identified below [Offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

Any changes provided by the Offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. 



FAR 52.230-1 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (OCT 2008)

Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification (OCT 2008) 

Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. 

Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract. 

If the Offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively. 

Disclosure Statement—Cost Accounting Practices and Certification 

Any contract in excess of $650,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1.

Any Offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the Offeror’s proposal under this solicitation unless the Offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the Offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. 

Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. 

Check the appropriate box below: 

Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and 

One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. 

(Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.) 

Date of Disclosure Statement: _________________________


Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: _______________________________________ 

The Offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement. 

Date of Disclosure Statement: _________________________
Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: _______________________________________ 

The Offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. 

Caution: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. 

Cost Accounting Standards – Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage 

If the Offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the Offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. 

The Offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the Offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the Offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts. The Offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the Offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. 

Caution: An Offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the Offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contractor subcontract of $50 million or more. 

Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts 

The Offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts.

(End of provision)

Alternate I (Apr 1996). As prescribed in 30.201-3(b), add the following paragraph (c)(5) to Part I of the basic provision: 

(5) Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution. If the Offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of 48 CFR 9903.202-1(f), is or will be required to submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the Offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete):

(i) A Disclosure Statement Filing Due Date of _____________ has been established with the cognizant Federal agency.

(ii) The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the 6-month period ending _________ months after receipt of this award. 

Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Disclosure Statement is to be Filed: _______________________________________________________________________________________________ 

K.6	FAR 52.230-7 PROPOSAL DISCLOSURE – COST ACCOUNTING PRACTICE CHANGES (APR 2005)

The Offeror shall check “yes” below if the contract award will result in a required or unilateral change in cost accounting practice, including unilateral changes requested to be desirable changes. 

If the Offeror checked “Yes” above, the Offeror shall--

(1)	Prepare the price proposal in response to the solicitation using the changed practice for the period of performance for which the practice will be used; and

Submit a description of the changed cost accounting practice to the Contracting Officer and the Cognizant Federal Agency Official as pricing support for the proposal.









Section L – INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

L.1	FAR 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the Offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):

 

Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses:



L.2	NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM (NAICS) CODE AND SMALL BUSINESS STANDARD

The NAICS code for this acquisition is 524114

The small business size standard is $7 million average annual income.

L.3	FAR 52.215-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS – COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION (JAN 2004), Alternate I (Oct 1997)

Definitions. As used in this provision --

“Discussions” are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, result in the Offeror being allowed to revise its proposal.”

“In writing,” “writing,” or “written” means any worded or numbered expression which can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes electronically transmitted and stored information.

“Proposal modification” is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation’s closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award.

“Proposal revision” is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer as the result of negotiations.

“Time,” if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next working day.

(b) Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s).

(c) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.  (1) Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in the solicitation, proposals and modifications to proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the Offeror. Offerors using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost wrapper with the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision.

(2) The first page of the proposal must show --

(i) The solicitation number;

(ii) The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the Offeror (and electronic address if available);

(iii) A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation and agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item;

(iv) Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate on the Offeror’s behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and

(v) Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent’s authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office.

(3) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (i) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modification, or revisions, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due.



(ii)(A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and --

(1) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals; or

(2) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or

(3) It is the only proposal received.

(B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Government will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.

(iii) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.

(iv) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.

(v) Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an Offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award.

(4) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the Offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items.

(5) Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation, and in U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is included in the solicitation.

(6) Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award.

(7) Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer.

(8) Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting Officer.

(d) Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the Offeror).

(e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall --

(1) Mark the title page with the following legend: This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed -- in whole or in part -- for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this Offeror as a result of -- or in connection with -- the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and

(2) Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal.

(f) Contract award. (1) The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror(s) whose proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and sub-factors in the solicitation.

(2) The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government’s interest.

(3) The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.

(4) The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract after conducting discussions with Offerors whose proposals have been determined to be within the competitive range. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals. Therefore, the Offeror’s initial proposal should contain the Offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.

(5) The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or prices offered, unless the Offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal.

(6) The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the Government’s best interest to do so.

(7) Exchanges with Offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government.

(8) The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or sub line items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government.

(9) If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance or schedule risk.

(10) A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful Offeror within the time specified in the proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.

(11) If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting Offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:

(i) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed Offeror’s offer.

(ii) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed Offeror and past performance information on the debriefed Offeror.

(iii) The overall ranking of all Offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.

(iv) A summary of the rationale for award.

(v) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful Offeror.

(vi) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed Offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency

L.4	FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of a cost plus award fee contract.  For purposes of evaluation, Offerors shall submit proposals based upon a cost plus award fee type contract.  However, the Contracting Officer reserves the right to award any contract type/pricing arrangement.  

Offerors should note that the Government reserves the right to expand and/or modify any resultant contract and its SOW in order to ensure continued services and to promote efficiency within the Medicare program.  

L.5	52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 



L.6	SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

If the proposed contract exceeds a total estimated cost of $650,000 for the entire period of performance, the apparent successful Offeror shall be required to submit a subcontracting plan in accordance with the terms of the clause entitled "Small Business Subcontracting Plan," FAR 52.219-9, incorporated herein by reference in the Solicitation. Attachment J-03 to this solicitation is an example of such a plan. The small business plan shall cover the entire contract period.  The plan shall be submitted for the base year and each option period separately (Base Year, Option Year 1, etc.).  

THIS PROVISION DOES NOT APPLY TO SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS.

The term "subcontract" means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime Contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for the performance of the original contract or subcontract.

CMS recommends the following goals for subcontracting opportunities:

Overall, for the total dollars subcontracted, 28% should go to Small Businesses.  As a subset of the 28%, the following goals are recommended:





The Offeror understands that:



No contract will be awarded unless and until an acceptable plan is negotiated with the Contracting Officer which plan will be incorporated into the contract, as a material part thereof.

An acceptable plan must, in the determination of the Contracting Officer, provide the maximum practicable opportunity for small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged persons to participate in the performance of the contract.

If a subcontracting plan acceptable to the Contracting Officer is not negotiated within the time limits prescribed by the contracting activity and such failure arises out of causes within the control and with the fault or negligence of the Offeror, the Offeror shall be ineligible for an award.   The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor in writing of the reasons for determining a subcontracting plan unacceptable early enough in the negotiation process to allow the Contractor to modify the plan within the time limits prescribed.

Prior compliance of the Offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the Offeror for award of the contract.

It is the Offeror's responsibility to develop a satisfactory subcontracting plan with respect to both small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and that each such aspect of the Offeror's plan will be judged independent of the other.

The Offeror will submit, as required by the Contracting Officer, subcontracting reports in accordance with the instructions thereon and as further directed by the Contracting Officer.  Subcontractors will also submit these reports to the Government's Contracting Officer or as otherwise directed, with a copy to the prime Contractor's designated small and disadvantaged business liaison.



The Government will evaluate the Offeror’s Small Business Subcontracting Plan for total Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) participation.  This evaluation will be based on information obtained from the plan provided by the Offeror, the realism of the proposal, and any information supplied by the Offeror.  Evaluation of the Small Business Subcontracting Plan will be a subjective assessment based on consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances.  The Government is seeking to determine whether the Offeror has demonstrated commitment to use SDB concerns for the work that it intends to perform as the contractor.  The Government will rely on the following areas of emphasis in evaluating the proposed SDB participation in the Offeror’s Small Business Subcontracting Plan:

The extent to which SDB concerns are specifically identified - Provide names, points of contact along with the other information asked for in the above paragraph for the SDBS to be utilized on this contract.

The extent of an Offeror’s commitment to use SDB concerns - Commitments should be as specific as possible, i.e. subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, etc. Specific concerns must be identified with points of contact and telephone numbers.  In addition, the SDB must provide proof of its certification as a SDB.  Targets expressed as dollars and a percentage of total contract value for each SDB participating will be incorporated into and become part of any resulting contract.  Therefore, the estimated extent of participation of all SDB concerns in terms of the value of the total acquisition must be identified.

The complexity and variety of the work SDB concerns are to perform – Provide detail on the type of work the SDB will be performing.

The realism of the proposal – The viability of the Offeror meeting the goals presented in the SDB utilization plan.

The extent of participation of SDB concerns in terms of the value of the total acquisition – The percentage of work the Offeror plans to subcontract to SDB concerns must be detailed.



L.7	SOLICITATION QUESTIONS

All questions concerning this formal Request for Proposal shall be submitted electronically via email to the following address:  by 5:00PM Local Prevailing Time July 6, 2011.  Answers to questions that CMS determines to be necessary for proposal preparation will be conveyed in the form of a solicitation amendment on or about July 20, 2011.  Technical questions submitted by telephone or verbally will not be honored.  The Offeror shall group its questions by RFP contract sections A through M.  The offer shall indicate the solicitation number in the subject line of all emails pertaining to this solicitation.  

Submission of questions shall include at a minimum, company name, address, point of contact, phone number.

EACH question submitted by the Offeror shall be numbered and include:

SOW section number and/or title (including subparagraph designations) or solicitation section and/or title being referenced.

Complete description of the question



NOTE:  Questions submitted in chart or graph format will not be accepted.



L.8	PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND DELIVERY 



The Offeror shall deliver to the address below on or before Wednesday, August 3, 2011 by 11:00AM Local Prevailing Time:



One (1) original and eight (8) copies of the Written Technical Proposal – Volume I in hard copy and 2 CD-ROMs;

One (1) original and eight (8) copies of Volume IIA  Business Proposal Cost Templates (this will also include the Basis of Estimate document, Attachment J-07) in hard copy and 2 CD-ROMs; 

One (1) original and eight (8) copies of Volume IIB Written Proposal Narrative in hard copy and 2 CD-ROMs;

One (1) original and two (2) copies of the Conflict of Interest – Volume III in hard copy and 2 CD-ROMs.

Each of the Proposal Volumes (I, IIA, IIB, and III), is submitted in their entirety in both hard copy and on CD-ROM, as stated above, in Microsoft Office Word or Excel – Version 2007.  The 8 CD-ROMs shall be placed in the box of “originals” as stated under L.9.j.

Signed annual reports and corporate policies may be submitted in Adobe Acrobat or PDF format.  Organizational charts may be submitted in Microsoft PowerPoint or Adobe version 2003 or 2007.  Microsoft Project Files are acceptable (version 2003 or 2007).  However, in any case where a portion of the Offeror’s proposal is sent in Microsoft Project it must be accompanied by a PDF document that includes the same information.

The Offeror should submit its proposal PRINTED and COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED on RECYCLED PAPER to the greatest extent practicable to: 

Offerors are hereby advised that the place for submission of proposals (*CMS Single Site at 7500 Security Blvd, Baltimore (Woodlawn), Maryland), is a secure building.  Proposal delivery must be made to the exact location stated in this solicitation on or before the date and time specified.  Offerors are also advised to make sure that the proposal is clearly marked as to:  



The RFP number;

Jurisdiction Number;

The date and time for receipt;

The intended room location;

The intended recipient, and

The telephone number of the intended recipient

*See Attachment J-24 for directions to CMS Central Office (North Gate-Dogwood Road). 

Offerors shall enter the CMS single site facility through the North Gate—Dogwood Road.  For security purposes Offerors shall contact the Contract Specialist or the Contracting Officer with the following information:

Delivery personnel name

Year, make, and model of delivery vehicle

Vehicle license plate number

Approximate number of boxes

The above information shall be received by the Contract Specialist or the Contracting Officer at least 24 hours prior to delivery.  If the above information is unknown 24 hours prior to delivery, the Offeror shall provide the information as soon as it becomes available, but no later than 3 hours before proposal drop-off.  Personnel will be asked to verify the above information at the North Gate-Dogwood Road prior to entering the CMS complex.  Upon verification, the delivery vehicle will be directed to the CMS warehouse, where proposals will be received.  Delivery vehicles will not be searched at the North Gate-Dogwood Road so long as Offerors have supplied the above information and are placed on a pre-approved security list. 

For logistical purposes only, Offerors shall contact the Contract Specialist or the Contracting Officer to schedule a drop-off appointment.  CMS will give Offerors preference for proposal delivery based on the number of jurisdictional proposals to be delivered and the number of boxes to be received.  That is, CMS anticipates that an Offeror with a large number of boxes will be scheduled for proposal delivery early in the day.

Offerors who do not follow the above guidance when submitting proposals will be subject to standard security protocols prior to entering the CMS complex.  Offerors will, at a minimum, be subject to a vehicle search and all packages/boxes and their contents may be opened and searched prior to entering the CMS complex.  

Offerors are cautioned that proposals are considered ‘received’ by CMS when the Offeror receives a signed receipt by the Contract Specialist or Contracting Officer or their designees indicating the time and date of proposal receipt; which, if following the above guidance, will take place at the CMS warehouse.

Proposal delivery by a mail carrier service other than the U.S. Postal Service are not accepted in the CMS mailroom and therefore, Offerors’ proposals may not be delivered timely to the location and person specified in this solicitation.  

Offerors are reminded that FAR 52.215-1 does not make allowance for proposals received late when submitted by mail services other than the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service.  Offerors are advised to take that possibility into consideration in determining when and how a proposal must be received at the specified location to meet the date and time requirements.

L.9	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

The Offeror shall identify, in the header or the footer throughout the proposal, the Offeror’s name and the jurisdiction for which the Offeror is submitting the proposal.

Sections a. through n. establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals.

a.	General

The following instructions will establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and contents of proposals. The Offeror’s proposal submission shall consist of:

Volume I Written Technical Proposal Instructions See specific instructions in L.13

Volume II Business Proposal Instructions See specific instructions in L.15.

Volume III – Conflict of Interest Proposal Instructions (Compliance Program to be submitted post award) – See specific instructions in L.17

Each of the volumes shall be separate and complete so that the evaluation of one may be accomplished independent of the evaluation of the other.

Offerors submitting proposals for multiple jurisdictions shall clearly mark each box and its content with jurisdiction identification.  Boxes/packages containing multiple volumes of proposals shall be jurisdiction specific.

b.	Performance of Work

It is the Government’s intention that all work under this contract shall be performed within the United States, unless the Offeror can demonstrate that performance of work outside the United States satisfies the following factors:

All terms of this solicitation regarding system security.

All terms of this solicitation regarding the confidentiality and privacy requirements for information and data protection.

All terms of this solicitation that are otherwise relevant, including the provisions of the SOW.

All terms of this solicitation regarding corporate compliance.

All laws and regulations applicable to the performance of work outside the United States.

The best interests of the United States.

If the Offeror proposes to perform any of the work under this contract outside the United States, the Offeror shall fully address the above factors in the appropriate sections of its written technical and business proposal.  In preparing a proposal to meet this requirement, particular attention should be given to:



c.	Section M. Evaluation Factors for Award

The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criterion set forth in Section M., Evaluation Factors for Award, of this solicitation.

d.	Proposals Included in the Official Contract File

Offerors are advised that its proposal may become part of the official contract file.

e.	Clauses

Any resultant contract shall include the FAR clauses applicable to the selected Offeror’s organization and type of contract award.  Copies of the FAR clauses may be obtained at the following address:  . Any additional clauses required by public law, executive order, or acquisition regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed contract, will be included.

Costs for Proposal Submission

This solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal.  In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed acquisition.

g.	Late Proposals

Late proposals will be handled in accordance with FAR 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004) (Solicitation Section L.3.).

h.	Intent to Submit a Proposal

The Offeror shall indicate its intent to submit a proposal for this solicitation no later than July 8, 2011.  This notice shall be submitted via e-mail to the following address: .  The intent to submit a proposal is not binding.  It is for planning purposes only.  Failure to indicate intent to submit a proposal does not preclude an Offeror from submitting a proposal.  At a minimum, the Offerors shall provide the name of the company/entity intending to submit a proposal.

i.	Signature

The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind its organization.

Offerors are encouraged not to take exception to this solicitation; however, any exceptions taken to the specifications or terms and conditions of this solicitation shall be identified in a cover letter and explained in detail in the appropriate section of the technical and/or business proposal. Offerors are to detail the particular section, clause paragraph, and page to which they are taking exception to.

j.	Binding and Labeling 

Offerors shall use three-ringed binders to submit proposals.  A binder cover sheet shall be affixed to each volume, which clearly identifies each volume, volume number, copy number (i.e., copy 2 of 4), jurisdiction, the solicitation identification number, and the Offeror’s name.  If the material for a volume requires more than one book, then that volume shall be labeled with the name and number of the volume and book number (i.e., Proposal, Book 1 of 2).  The original of Volumes I, II, and III shall be marked ORIGINAL and all other copies shall be marked COPY # ___ of ___.  

Proposals should be packaged as follows:



The Offerors should submit a total of 9 boxes.  One box of proposals should contain original signatures and 8 boxes should contain copies.



Each box should be labeled according to content (e.g. Original, Copy 1 of 8, Copy 2 of 8, etc).  



Sample:



RFP-CMS-2011-0014

Company Name

Jurisdiction 5

Original Signatures 





RFP-CMS-2011-0014

Company Name

Jurisdiction 5

Copy 1 of 8



RFP-CMS-2011-0014

Company Name

Jurisdiction 5

Copy 2 of 8



RFP-CMS-2011-0014

Company Name

Jurisdiction 5

Copy 3 of 8



Each box should be labeled on one end and one side with the RFP number, Offeror’s name, jurisdiction 5, and box ___ of ___.

Each box should contain:

(a) Volume I Technical Proposal – hard copy, 

(b) Volume IIA Business Proposal – hard copy (to include the Basis of Estimate)

(c) Volume IIB  Business Proposal – hard copy

(d) Volume III Conflict of Interest –hard copy.  Since an original and 2 copies are requested of this volume, this volume will only be in the “Originals” box and boxes for “Copy 1 of 8” and “Copy 2 of 8”.    



In addition, the box with ORIGINALS should also contain the master and back-up CD-ROMs for each of Volumes I, IIA, IIB, and III, for a total of 8 CD-ROMs in the “ORIGINALS” box.   



The electronic copy of the business proposal templates shall be unprotected and include all formulas utilized in the formation of the spreadsheets.  



k.	Indexing

TAB indexing shall be used to identify all sections listed in Section L.13 through L.17.  Each section shall be organized such that an extensive search of documents is not necessary to review the proposal.

l.	Amendment/Cancellation

CMS reserves the right to amend or cancel the solicitation as necessary to meet CMS requirements.

m.	Page Size, Typing, Spacing, and Page Numbering

Page size shall be 8.5 by 11 inches unless otherwise indicated. Foldouts will count as two pages. 

Page size for Business Proposal templates may be 11 inches by 17 inches and the type size shall not be less than 10-point Arial, no compression.  

The proposal shall be page numbered.  

Submit proposals, to the extent possible, on high-grade white paper, which can be recycled. 

Type size shall not be less than 12-point font type Times New Roman.  

Each page shall be single-spaced and shall not be compressed.  Each page shall have a 1” margin on all 4 sides; header and footer information may be contained within the 1” area.  

Proposal text headings shall be no smaller than 12-point Times New Roman.

Table text shall be no smaller than 10-point Arial, single-line spacing, and no compression.

Proposal Graphics shall be no smaller than 10-point Arial, single-line spacing, and no compression.

The Contracting Officer, at his/her discretion, shall have the authority to waive minor deviations from the above specifications.  If an Offeror would like to request a deviation from the listed specifications, then the Offeror must submit this request in writing to the Contracting Officer and Contract Specialist at least two weeks prior to the date proposals are due. 

n.	Documentation

Documentation associated with FISS (Fiscal Intermediary Shared System), the MCS (Multi Carrier Shared System), CEM (Common Edits and Enhancements Module), and CWF (Common Working File Shared System) is available upon request.  These documents can be provided on a CD.  Potential Offerors should note that prior to the distribution of the FISS, MCS, or CWF documentation, CMS will require a signed non-disclosure statement (see Attachment J-19).  Requests for this documentation and the signed non-disclosure statement shall be received by James Wilkerson, Contract Specialist, , 410-786-5586 and Christina Honey, Contracting Officer, ,  410-786-5791.  Potential Offerors may elect to have the CDs picked up from CMS or to have the CDs mailed to them.

Note: The CWF documentation is also available at  .

L.10	PROPOSAL ASSUMPTIONS 

Offerors shall use the following assumptions when developing their proposal:  



Implementation Cutover Date  

The Offeror shall use the Implementation cutover date developed by CMS (see table below) when developing its proposed CLIN 0001 costs associated with its Jurisdiction Implementation Project Plan. Completion of the movement of the Jurisdiction to the incoming MAC shall occur within six (6) months of award.

At the implementation cutover date the outgoing fiscal intermediary or MAC, ceases Medicare operations and the incoming MAC begins to perform Medicare business functions for that jurisdiction. The following table considers each individual Customer 

Information Control System (CICS) region as an individual “segment”. 







All workloads have been converted to the Healthcare Integrated General Ledger Accounting System (HIGLAS).



It is anticipated that the MAC contract award for Jurisdiction 5 shall be made on or about March 9, 2012.



Joint Operating Agreements between functional contractors impacting the MACs shall be executed prior to the operational start date. The operational start date is defined as the date that the MAC assumes all Medicare functions from an outgoing contract and is capable of processing Medicare claims for that jurisdiction.  Please refer to the implementation cutover dates in the chart above for the operational start dates.  The dates are depicted in the timeline below:



	Implementation and Base Periods – 3/9/2012 – 3/8/2013





3/9/2012	6/18/2012	7/23/2012	8/20/2012	9/9/2012	3/8/2013  







	Overlapping Implementation and Base Periods are shown below:

	Implementation – start date of 3/9/2012

	Implementation – end dates ranging from 6/18/2012 – 8/20/2012

	Base Period – start dates ranging from 6/19/2012 – 8/21/2012

	Base Period – end date of 3/8/2013



































TABLE OF ESTIMATED DATES FOR CLINs 0001 - 0007

For estimating purposes, the workloads in the tables below shall be used by all Offerors in preparing their technical and business proposals.  Offerors should note that the workload data for Medical Review is given at section L.10.f.



In the consolidated workload chart below, the estimated base period used in calculating workload estimates are as follows:  Part A legacy workload is 8.5 months; the J5 Part A workload is 7.5 months; and the J5 Part B workload is 7 months.  













** Pending workloads represent the carryover from the outgoing contractor (Base Period).

Medical Review Workload for J5 A/B MAC.  

One of CMS’s most critical operational objectives is to reduce the Medicare payment error rate (as measured by CERT).  The national Medicare fee-for-service payment error rate is estimated at 10.5%.  This error rate is unacceptable to CMS.  



CMS has intentionally displayed the Medical Review (MR) workloads below (from the other Jurisdiction 5 workload presented in L.10.e that are mandatory for bidding assumptions) to emphasize to Offerors the importance of this payment error rate reduction objective.  The MR workloads depicted below reflect the current pattern of MR activity in Jurisdiction 5 and CMS has also used these workloads for its internal Government Cost Estimation.  However, the MR workloads presented below are not mandatory for bidding purposes, rather, Offerors may propose any MR workloads that are consistent with its MR strategy for reducing the error rate.  



Offerors are advised that the Basis of Estimate (Attachment J-07) shall mirror their proposed workloads to support its MR strategy.  Offerors are also advised that staffing plan changes that  result from its MR strategy must be included in its overall staffing plan; moreover, any associated cost must be clearly identified within its Business Proposal narrative, and/or Tab F.1  Business Proposal Assumptions of Volume IIB.  MR strategy must also be consistent with MR Strategy activities included in L.13.c, Tab C.4.  







Change Requests and Joint Signature Memorandum/Technical Direction Letters (JSM/TDLs).



In Fiscal Year (FY) 2010, the CMS issued approximately 525 draft change requests (CRs) to Medicare Contractors, Shared System Maintainers (SSMs), and the Common Working File (CWF) Maintenance Contractor for review and comment. (This is otherwise known as the Point of Contact (POC) Review period, which is described in detail in section C.4, Participation in Change Management Process, of the SOW.) Approximately 431of the draft CRs were issued in final for implementation. Approximately 68 percent of those issued CRs resulted in changes to the Shared Systems and the Common Working File. 



For proposal purposes only, Offerors shall assume that the estimated workload associated with reviewing, commenting, and submitting a Level of Effort (LOE) assessment on draft CRs is as follows:





For proposal purposes only, Offerors shall use the estimated workload associated with implementing finalized issued CRs as provided in the two charts below.  The first chart indicates workload that will require shared system changes and the second chart indicates workload that will not require shared system changes.



Estimated workload for CRs issued in final that will require Part A and/or Part B shared system changes is provided in the chart below. 













Estimated workload for CRs that will not require Part A and/or Part B shared system changes, but will have MAC impact are in the table below. 





For proposal purposes only, Offerors shall assume the workload provided in the chart below for Joint Signature Memorandum/Technical Direction Letters that CMS will issue to MACs.   





Manual references in the statement of work.

The Offeror shall prepare their proposal based upon the version of the Manuals (both the Internet-Only Manuals and Paper-Based Manuals) as of the date of the RFP release.  The Statement of Work (Attachment J-01) has precedence over the Internet-Only Manuals, which in turn has precedence over the Paper Based Manuals.  The Offeror shall not respond to manual changes issued after the RFP release date unless otherwise instructed by CMS. 



Records Retention and Memoranda of Understanding regarding Legacy records.

For A/B MAC Jurisdiction 5 and the remaining Part A legacy workload, the Offeror shall assume a total of 450,600 cubic feet of file storage for Medicare records.  The breakout of this total by J5 and Part A legacy records and locales in provided in the chart below.  For proposal purposes, one (1) cubic foot equals one (1) box.  The NARA compliance will be enforced on this procurement.  Offerors are to assume that files are not currently in NARA compliant facilities.  Offerors are required to identify and/or negotiate rates with a NARA compliant facility. For proposal purposes, if an Offeror must relocate files they shall assume the file locations provided in the chart below.  Offerors are to assume any cost of moving records to occur during the Implementation period and record costs within the Implementation cost CLIN.  Offerors are to assume the cost of file storage in the operational periods and record costs in the operational cost CLINS (Base and Options 1 through 4). 

     



In addition, in SOW, Attachment J-01, under the Jurisdiction-Specific requirements section, C.7.25.1, it is noted that a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is in place with A/B MACs for Jurisdictions 1, 4, and 12 regarding requesting legacy records.  A copy of each of the MOUs is provided within Attachment J-28.  For proposal purposes, Offerors must plan to continue these existing MOUs.



Manage Paper Bills/Claims.

In the management of paper bills and claims addressed in Attachment J-01 – Statement of Work, section, C.5.8 the images from the outgoing contractor will be transferred to the incoming contractor.  For proposal purposes, the Offeror shall assume that the formats of these images are compatible with their systems.  Additional information regarding the images from the outgoing contractor will be provided after contract award and during the implementation period.

 

Document and Data Retrieval.

For obtaining, reading and storing historical electronic files addressed in Attachment J-01 – Statement of Work, section C.5.1., for proposal purposes, Offerors shall assume that historical electronic file formats are compatible with their systems.  Additional information will be provided after contract award and during the implementation period.



Cost Proposal Templates.  

Offerors may adjust formulas within the CLIN templates to ensure accuracy in its cost proposal.  



Participation in conferences.

In accordance with section C.5.4.7. of Statement of Work (attachment J-01), the contractor shall participate in conferences.  For proposal purposes, Offerors should plan for 12 conferences annually (6 in Baltimore, Maryland and 6 in Denver, Colorado), 4 attendees at each conference, and 2 overnights at each conference.  



In addition to the 12 conferences, the Offeror should plan to attend two Security Best Practices conferences annually (1 in Baltimore, Maryland and 1 in Denver, Colorado), with 3 overnights at each conference.



Additionally, the Offeror should propose to the following conferences and workgroups in the Provider Customer Service (PCSP) functional area:  (a) Provider Customer Service Program Conference once every two years (up to 5 contractor staff may attend).  Type of staff requested (representatives from provider outreach and education, provider inquiries, webmaster, customer service representative, etc.), (b) Monthly Provider Customer Service Program User Group teleconference.  Provider inquiry and provider outreach and education representatives from the contractors attend, and (c) Periodic workgroups (about two per year) with contractor representatives to address PCSP issues.  The workgroups always meet by teleconference, usually on a weekly or monthly basis.  



In addition to the proposal assumptions provided above for section C.5.4.7, Offerors shall propose any travel required to perform other requirements in the statement of work. Additional travel may include, but is not limited to, the following sections of the SOW:

Provider Outreach and Education - Direct mailings. 

For proposal purposes, Offerors should plan for two (2) direct mailings a year to all enrolled providers in accordance IOM Pub 100-9, Chapter 6.



Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH).

The Jurisdiction 5 A/B MAC shall perform the activities required by section C.5.11.3.6. of the SOW.  For proposal purposes, Offerors shall assume that the J5 MAC and the current Part A legacy contractors successfully accomplish the initial data load activities mentioned in this SOW provision (i.e., the data load activities required to be accomplished by March 31, 2011).  For proposal purposes, Offerors shall only include costs associated with periodic data maintenance activities as required by the SOW provision.  CMS may define further HITECH requirements and add them to the MAC SOW as a post-award contract modification. CMS Regulations pertaining to the HITECH program (CMS-0033-F) are located at:  .



Postage and Printing Costs.  

For proposal purposes, Offerors shall assume a three (3) percent escalation on postage costs for each contract year.  Offerors shall also clearly delineate their proposed assumptions for all proposed print/mail costs under Tab F.1 of its Business Proposal. At a minimum, Offerors shall identify all categories of items to be mailed on this contract (e.g., MSNs, SPRs, etc.), the proposed workload for each category, how the Offeror estimated the workload for each category, and the proposed unit cost for each workload category. The Offeror shall also separate costs for printing and postage services.



Banking.  

CMS now provides banking services to MACs through standard commercial banking contracts.  Beginning February 2012, CMS will no longer provide lockbox services as part of these standard commercial banking contracts.  Therefore, Offerors shall include as part of this proposal any costs associated with creating their own subcontract for lockbox services, or switching their banking procedures such that lockboxes are no longer needed for MAC functions. For example, the MAC Contractor could coordinate with CMS and its assigned Bank (currently either US Bank or JP Morgan Chase) to open a lockbox and link that lockbox with the MAC’s Medicare Bank Account.  In this example, the MAC Contractor would have to form a separate subcontract with the Bank to pay for the use of the lockbox, which should be billed as an expense to the MAC Contract for which it has been established.



Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests.  

Offerors should note that FOIA workload has been included in the workload assumption chart.



Award Fee Plan.  

The incumbent of a jurisdiction shall not propose award fee for the implementation period.



MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload Onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits.  Offerors shall propose to the total workload for the given category in the workload table at L.10 e.  Below is a breakout of the total workload number for each full 12-month option period for the workload for the Jurisdiction 5 states and the Part A Legacy work.  













Joint Operating Agreements (JOAs) with Zone Program Integrity Contractors (ZPICs).             For proposal purposes, the Offeror should assume a JOA will be required with all 7 ZPICs. 



Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 16, Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization.  



Offerors are advised that all MACs will be required to follow the SSAE No. 16 auditing procedures as described in the Statement of Work (SOW), Attachment J-01, section C.5.4.10.4.  Formerly, MACs were required to follow the SAS 70 procedures.  As part of the requirement, the Contractor shall update the information that is shown in Section II of the SSAE 16 report, Description of Internal Control Structure Control Environment and Applications.  With the new SSAE 16 procedures, the Contractor shall prepare a written assertion attesting to the fair presentation and design of controls.  Under SAS 70, it was the auditors who reported directly on the controls.  Contractors will also be required to internally track and correct Section III findings.  Contractors are required to prepare and maintain documentation to support the status and corrective actions taken on Section III findings.  

The Offeror is advised to clearly identify where inclusion of SSAE 16 support costs are in the Business Proposal Narrative, and/or Tab F.1 Business Proposal Assumptions of Volume IIB.



 

L.11	COMMUNICATIONS PRIOR TO CONTRACT AWARD

Offerors shall direct all communications to the attention of the Contract Specialist/Contracting Officer cited on the cover letter of this solicitation unless otherwise amended.  Communications with other officials may compromise the integrity of this acquisition and result in cancellation of the requirement or may result in the communicating Offeror(s) not being considered further for award.

L.12	WRITTEN TECHNICAL PROPOSAL ORGANIZATION 

The Offeror shall identify, in the header or the footer throughout the proposal, the Offeror’s name and the jurisdiction for which the Offeror is submitting the proposal.  Offerors must adhere to the page limits defined below.  Pages provided beyond the limit will be discarded and not reviewed or evaluated.  Volume I must NOT contain reference to price/cost.

Volume I – Written Technical Proposal (limit of  90 pages)

The Offeror’s technical written proposal shall be organized as follows:



L.13	VOLUME I – WRITTEN TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS (limit of 90 pages)

Tab A: Table of Contents (not included in 90-page limit)

Offerors shall include a Table of Contents that identifies and clearly labels the various Volume I sections.

Tab A.1:  Acronym Dictionary (not included in 90-page limit)

Offerors shall include an acronym dictionary that defines all acronyms cited in the proposal.

Tab B: Past Performance Instructions (Past Performance Questionnaires, Attachment J-08, and a summary listing of PPQs are NOT included in the 90-page limit.  All other information submitted by the Offeror on Past Performance WILL BE INCLUDED in the 90-page limit)

In determining the overall rating for the Past Performance criteria, CMS will consider the findings in relation to four elements: Customer Service, Financial Management, Operational Excellence, and Innovations and Technology. These elements align to CMS’ goals in the SOW (see Attachment J-01 of this solicitation) and are defined in section M.4 of this solicitation. 

Offerors shall submit the information described below as part of its written technical proposal for both the Offeror (as prime) and proposed subcontractors.

Offerors shall have submitted to CMS a Past Performance Questionnaire (PPQ), provided at Attachment J-08, from a maximum of five (5) contracts and/or subcontracts for only non-MAC work (completed and/or currently in progress) for the prime contractor and any subcontractors for the last three (3) years.  Offerors and proposed subcontractors shall limit the number of PPQs submitted to no more than five each.  Please note that one PPQ, Attachment J-08, may be submitted for multiple MAC proposals as long as the PPQ is clearly identified for “MAC Jurisdiction 5.”  This PPQ will be kept on file and used for all current and future proposals as long as it falls within the respective past three years.  This list will only include all contracts within the separate Business Units where the MAC contracts will be performed.  Contracts listed may include those entered into with the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers.  

The PPQ (Attachment J-08) must be submitted directly by the references.  Attachment J-08 includes a sample cover letter, instructions for questionnaire response and the questionnaire.  Offerors shall ask references to submit their responses directly to CMS no later than one (1) week after the proposal due date.  

Offerors should include in their technical proposal, under Tab B, a summary listing of each entity that was asked by the Offeror and/or subcontractor to complete a Past Performance Questionnaire (PPQ).  Offerors should not provide copies of letters and blank PPQs mailed to persons for completion.  This summary is NOT included in the page limit.  This summary should include:

Contract Number and Type the PPQ is being completed for

Contact Person completing PPQ

Contact Person’s Phone Number

Company Name and Address of Contact Person



CMS may review the Federal Government’s Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) and/or the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) for existing performance evaluations.  If your designated reference(s) have previously submitted an evaluation in PPIRS and/or CPARS they do not need to resubmit using the PPQ attachment.  CMS will locate the evaluation in the appropriate performance system.  

A joint venture having no past performance history itself may provide references based on the constituent companies.  In addition, Offerors having no organizational past performance record may provide references for proposed personnel. The Offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications received in the past three (3) years that indicate the Offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the services required.  Describe when the award or certification was bestowed.  

In addition to Attachment J-08, PPIRS, and/or CPARS, CMS may consider information from a range of CMS internal and external sources to develop an Offeror factor rating for past performance (reference section M.1.).  This information may include, but is not limited to the following:  

912 Evaluations (Note: the results of 912 Evaluations may be given greater weight if there is less differentiation among other sources of past performance information) 

CFO Audits

CMS ART

Medicare Contractor Provider Satisfaction Survey (MCPSS) Results

Monthly Management Reports

Quality Assurance and Surveillance Plans

Reports of Contractor Performance

Stakeholder and subject matter expert interviews – all issues identified shall be tied back to a previously noted finding in a published report (e.g. SAS 70 audit, QASP review)

Statements on Auditing Standards Number 70 (SAS70), now being replaced with the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16, Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization

Award Fee Determination

When making the competitive range determination, an Offeror’s past performance rating will be based upon information up to the date of initial proposal submission.  When making the contract award determination, an Offeror’s past performance rating will be based upon information up to the date of final proposal submission.  Should award be made based upon the initial proposal submission, and Offeror’s past performance rating will be based upon information up to the date of initial proposal submission.  However, the Government is not prevented from considering any other relevant past performance information that may become available.



c.	TAB C: Technical Understanding

In determining the overall rating for the technical understanding criteria, CMS will consider the findings in relation to four elements: Customer Service, Financial Management, Operational Excellence, and Innovations and Technology.  These elements align to CMS’ goals in the SOW (see Attachment J-01 of this solicitation) and are defined in section M.3 of this solicitation.



Tab C.1:  Program Management (included in 90-page limit)

The Offeror shall submit a program management plan that demonstrates its ability to accomplish the effective management of the combined administration of the Medicare Parts A, and Part B as a MAC.  The program management plan shall include, at a minimum:

the organizational alignment of the Offeror and its teaming partners/subcontractors for the performance of the MAC contract and the anticipated effects of that alignment in accomplishing (1) the goals of the MAC implementation, and (2) the goals of ongoing MAC operations; and 

the demonstration of a practicable and collaborative work environment for the execution of the MAC contract; the demonstration of the Offeror’s establishment of internal controls affecting its employees, teaming partners, subcontractors and consultants.

Tab C.2: Personnel

Tab C.2.1: Staffing Plan (included in 90-page limit) 

The Offeror shall submit a staffing plan that presents/outlines the Offeror’s staffing strategy for providing and retaining qualified and experienced personnel for the life of the contract across the prime and subcontractors. 

The Offeror shall identify its proposed staff on this contract as follows:

Identify the total number of FTEs required for each CLIN of the contract across the prime and subcontractor(s). 

Identify the total number of FTEs required for CLINs 0002 (Base) and 0003 (Option 1) of the contract across the prime and subcontractor(s) broken out by labor category at the third level of the WBS (e.g., C.5.5, C.5.8, etc.).

The Offeror shall describe its staffing strategy to ensure that the FTEs proposed are in place prior to the start of the base year (CLIN 0002) operations. As part of its staffing strategy, the Offeror shall describe the number of new hires broken out by labor category and function across the prime and subcontractor(s). The Offeror shall also describe its recruitment strategy and timeline for obtaining those staff, and contingency plans to respond to staff turnover.  

The Offeror shall describe a training approach for staff under the MAC contract. This approach will include a training program and timeline for new hires, and ongoing training and education for staff during the performance of the contract.

The Offeror is advised that all staffing plan elements described above shall include any direct labor for the contract and any labor proposed in a service center. The Offeror is advised to fully disclose any functions and staffing proposed within a service center in its staffing plan, and describe how the use of these service centers support its operational structure for performing this contract. The Offeror shall clearly label any staffing charts or exhibits to identify the information contained within, such as whether FTE counts are only for Direct Labor costs, if FTE counts include subcontractors, etc.   

If the award of the contract for the Jurisdiction 5 work would result in an Offeror or subcontractor having multiple MAC contracts or both a MAC and legacy contract, then the Offeror and the subcontractors (where applicable) shall complete Attachments J-29 and J-30 to support proposed staffing. Attachment J-29 (Staffing Matrix) shall be completed to support proposed direct staffing.  Attachment J-29 shall be completed by the Offeror and also completed by any proposed subcontractor performing more than 10% of the level of effort under any functional area within C.5 of the Statement of Work.  In addition, if the Offeror or proposed subcontractors have service centers, they shall also complete Attachment J-30 (Service Center Matrix) to   support level of effort proposed in a service center. Attachments J-29 and J-30 are not included in the overall page limit.

Tab C.2.2: Position Descriptions by function (not included in 90 page limit)

For each labor category, the Offeror shall provide a description of the activities performed and the minimal education and/or experience requirements. When the same labor category is identified for multiple SOW WBS line items (e.g., Analyst I is proposed for C.5.3, C.5.8, and C.5.10), the Offeror shall provide a description of activities performed specific to each SOW WBS line item for both the prime and subcontractor(s). 

Tab C.2.3: Site Description (included in 90 page limit)

The Offeror shall describe the sites to be utilized throughout this contract for both the prime and subcontractor(s). Included in this description will be the functions to be performed at each site, the total staff proposed by function at each site, and the status of the proposed facility (operational or future site). If the proposed facility is not currently operational, the Offeror shall identify the expected open date for the facility. All of this information shall be provided for both the prime and subcontractor(s).

Tab C.2.4: Key Personnel (resumes limited to 3 pages each and letters of commitment limited to one (1) page each (not included in 90 page limit) 

The Offeror shall identify and provide resumes for all key personnel identified in the SOW.  The Offeror shall provide a letter of commitment for all key personnel not currently employed by the Offeror or subcontractor. Letters of Commitment shall include the date of availability, how long the individual’s commitment is binding, and is signed by the individual and the Offeror’s corporate authorized official. Resumes and Letters of Commitment shall be provided as a separate appendix that is not included in the technical proposal page limit; resumes should not exceed three pages each.  Each resume shall begin with a summary of the experience and expertise directly applicable to this contract, including, where applicable, the number and level of expertise of all personnel managed.  Each resume shall contain sufficient detail to clearly indicate the person is qualified for the position proposed (i.e., length of time for which the experience applies, the number and level of personnel managed, the directly applicable Medicare experience, the directly applicable technical experience, etc.). Each resume shall contain the following, at a minimum:

		

Name and position. 

Educational background, including academic degrees and the year conferred.

Technical training, including program year completions.

Years of applicable experience.

Citizenship.

History of applicable employment experience only identifying the technical qualifications relevant to the SOW and labor categories.



History of other experience and professional accomplishments that the Offeror may wish to present to demonstrate qualifications of the proposed individual.



The Offeror is advised to clearly identify where inclusion of key personnel level of effort is in the Business Proposal Narrative, and/or Tab F.1 Business Proposal Assumptions of Volume IIB.

Tab C.3: Innovations (included in 90-page limit)

The Offeror shall identify its proposed innovations and/or process improvements proposed for the contract.  Innovation can be defined as including, but is not limited to, the originality, soundness and feasibility of ideas or processes as they relate to the way in which the Offeror’s organization will manage the entire project.  Innovations do not include processes already widely in use by MACs.  For example, innovation is the successful implementation of creative ideas that increase quality or efficiency within an organization.  Types of innovation may include, but is not limited to, business model innovation, organizational innovation, process innovation or service innovation.  Innovations may, or may not, be part of the Offeror’s current non-Medicare operations.  

For each innovation the Offeror shall provide: 

What the innovation will accomplish.  For example, the innovation may be to streamline an existing process.  

How the innovation will accomplish its objective.  For example, if the innovation will streamline an existing process, the Offeror will state how the innovation will achieve the streamlining effect.

When the innovation was implemented in current operations (if applicable).  Provide the date the innovation was implemented in current non-Medicare or Medicare operations, if applicable.

When the innovation is proposed to be implemented.  

If the innovation if part of current operations, will it be immediately available on the new contract? 

For an innovation that is NOT part of current operations, the Offeror shall provide a schedule that provides the timeline for completing/implementing the proposed innovation(s) and/or process improvements for the new contract. This “schedule” shall include the start date, end date and any major milestones leading up to the implementation of an innovation. CMS is not requiring a detailed project schedule, although CMS may ask discussion questions to test the Offerors thoroughness of planning. These “schedules” shall count towards the page count limit.  

What is the benefit to the Government.  Benefits to the Government may include operational cost savings, improved customer service, and reductions to improper payments.   Where applicable, the Offeror shall crosswalk operational savings to the line items/functional areas of its cost proposal templates and/or its Attachment J-07 Basis of Estimate submission (e.g., specific level of effort savings reported for each affected WBS line). Where level of effort savings are proposed for innovations, the Offeror shall separately identify the hourly savings to each functional area (e.g., hours saved to WBS item C.5.7, hours saved to WBS item C.5.8, etc.), by labor category (e.g., reduction of 4,000 hours for Claims Adjudicator I), and by SLIN.

What is the background/supporting evidence for the stated benefit to the Government.  

If part of current operations, the Offeror is to provide evidence of the stated benefit.  The Offeror shall disclose the source of the evidence, which may include results from customer satisfaction surveys and reporting systems.  

If NOT part of current operations, the Offeror is to provide information on research performed to support the stated benefits for the proposed innovations and/or process improvements. Research may be internal investigation the Offeror performed on its operations and/or research conducted externally on similar operational systems.

What is the cost of implementation.  The Offeror is NOT to provide the cost of implementing an innovation in the technical proposal.  Rather, the Offeror shall identify in the technical proposal a reference where the information will be found in the business proposal.  The Offeror is advised that, for any proposed innovation with an associated cost, this associated cost shall be clearly identified within their Business Proposal Narrative, and/or Tab F.1 Business Proposal Assumptions of Volume IIB.

What is the contingency plan.  Finally, the Offeror shall provide a contingency plan for proposed innovations and/or process improvements in the event that there is a delay in the Offeror’s implementation.

Tab C.4: Medical Review Strategy (included in 90-page limit)

One of CMS’s priorities is to reduce the current national Medicare payment error rate (as measured by CERT).  The current national Medicare fee-for-service payment error rate is estimated at 10.5%.  This rate is unacceptable to CMS.  



In an effort to reduce the Medicare payment error rate, the Offeror’s MR strategy can include key MR activities, which when deployed strategically, can result in a reduced Medicare payment error rate.  The Offeror is free to use any technical medical information or literature (Government Accountability Office, Office of the Inspector General findings) at their disposal to make a determination of particularly high-risk areas that affect the current CERT rate.  Offerors can also learn more at: .



Within this context, the Offeror shall submit a sample Medical Review strategy and identify the risk(s) to the Medicare Trust Fund for this jurisdiction. The proposed Medical Review Strategy shall include the workloads by the categories identified in section L.10 f.  Within this strategy, the offeror shall include an automated medical review strategy, by types of services.  The Offeror shall also describe the automated medical review strategy’s projected impact on the reduction in the error rate, relative to other medical review.  The Offeror shall also include projected denied services and dollars resulting from Local Coverage Determination-driven automated denials, supported by detailed assumptions.  The Offeror’s strategy shall include all assumptions used in establishing the proposed workloads, as well as rationale used.  

The Offeror shall describe its approach to perform data analysis for the identification of Medicare program vulnerabilities and its approach to monitor A/B MAC utilization and medical review outcomes for the jurisdiction. The Offeror shall describe its approach for identifying patterns of provider or service billing aberrancies and analyzing Medicare program vulnerabilities that may pose a risk to the Medicare Trust Fund. The Offeror shall describe actions to prevent inappropriate payments while ensuring that services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries are medically necessary, correctly coded, and reimbursed to legitimate providers. The Offeror shall demonstrate its ability to understand and interpret Medicare policies and demonstrate its ability to implement the necessary action(s) to prevent or address identified vulnerabilities. 

The Offeror shall also describe its quality assurance process for its Medical Review activities. The Offeror shall describe its ability to develop and implement cost effective editing options and describe its approach to monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of edits. 



Tab C.5: Provider Customer Service Program Strategy (included in 90-page limit) 

Offerors shall respond to the following three questions.  Whenever possible, the response shall describe how the Offeror plans to achieve a comprehensive, coordinated and integrated PCSP.  Integration is not simply within the Offeror’s company, but with CMS, the provider community in the jurisdiction, and other Medicare contractors.  The response shall also include why the Offeror believes that an approach taken in another jurisdiction makes sense for Jurisdiction 5, given differences in characteristics between jurisdictions, if proposed.  

Please explain how you will assess the educational needs of the providers in Jurisdiction 5 as well as your approach for disseminating timely, accurate, and relevant information to the provider community.  

		      At a minimum the response should:

Describe how you will use various data sources (inquiry analysis, claims data analysis, error rate information, etc.) to determine the educational needs of the provider community. 

Describe the modes of education you will use to disseminate information, as well as your rationale for selecting each. 

Describe how your POE Staff will work with others areas in your organization—specifically Medical Review and the PCC.

Please provide your approach to handling all types of provider inquiries including proposed timeframes, triage processes, and quality assurance.

		At a minimum the response should:

Describe how you will use technology to enhance the customer service you provide.

Describe the inquiry triage process you will use, if applicable.  Your response should address both telephone and written inquiries and should include all levels of inquiries received (general through complex).

Describe your quality assurance process—especially how you assure you are providing accurate and complete responses to inquiries.  Your response should address both telephone and written inquiries and should include all levels of inquiries received (general through complex).

Please provide a description of the self-service technologies you will make available to the Jurisdiction 5 provider community, including the information available and your rationale for offering each, as well as how you will market and promote the use of the self-service options. 



Tab C.6: Jurisdiction Implementation Project Management Approach (included in 90-page limit)

The Offeror shall provide a clear and concise description of its understanding of implementation activities and its ability to resolve any issues that may arise regarding the A/B MAC Statement of Work.  This description should address:

Issues, concerns, and key assumptions of the implementation;



Expected services, support, and deliverables from all parties involved in the implementation; 



Actions that will be taken to communicate with Medicare providers, practitioners, suppliers, and other affected partners and stakeholders in order to minimize the impact of the implementation; and



Any real estate agreements or commitments for proposed location(s) for Medicare operations.  



TAB D: Attestations (not included in the 90-page limit)

The Offeror shall submit three attestations with its Proposal to document that it complies with CMS’ requirements: Information Security Attestation, Corporate Experience Attestation, and Compliance Attestation.  The attestations do not count towards the Written Technical Proposal page limit.

Information Security Attestation

The Offeror shall attest that its Information Security Plan is in compliance with CMS policies, procedures, and requirements set forth in the Business Partner System Security Manual found at . Specifically, the Offeror shall complete and submit the attestation template provided in Attachment J-21.  

Corporate Experience Attestation

The Offeror shall attest that either the Offeror (as the prime contractor), or the Offeror and its subcontractor(s) have performed work similar in scope and size to the work required under the MAC SOW. Specifically, the Offeror shall complete and submit the attestation template provided in Attachment J-22. 

As specified in Attachment J-22, if the Offeror attests that the collective work experience of the Offeror (as the prime contractor) and its subcontractor(s) is similar in size and scope to the work required under the MAC SOW, then both the Offeror and its subcontractor(s) shall sign the Corporate Experience Attestation (Attachment J-22). In addition, both the Offeror and subcontractors shall complete Appendix A of Attachment J-22. The subcontractor(s) may submit Appendix A to CMS under a separately sealed package.

Compliance Attestation

The Offeror shall attest that its Compliance Program (section C.5.4.11) has in place an effective compliance program that articulates and demonstrates the Offeror’s commitment to ethical and legal conduct. Specifically, the Offeror shall complete and submit the attestation template provided in Attachment J-23 (including if applicable, the required addendum to the attestation).

L.14	VOLUME II – BUSINESS PROPOSAL ORGANIZATION 

(1)	Volume IIA Business Proposal Cost Templates 



The Offeror’s business proposal cost Templates shall be organized as follows:





(2)	Volume IIB – Written Business Proposal Narrative



The Offeror’s business proposal narratives shall be organized as follows:





L.15	VOLUME II - GENERAL BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

The Business Proposal Narrative should include only Business Proposal-related content, and shall not include any Technical Proposal-related content.  Any contents of the Business Proposal Narrative not related to the Business Proposal will not be considered for evaluation.

The Offeror’s business proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this solicitation.  In addition, it must contain a statement to the effect that it is firm for a period of at least 270 days from the date specified for receipt of offers by the Government.

Proposal submission of other than cost or pricing data is required to be in the format prescribed in the business proposal spreadsheet templates – Attachments J-09, through J-17. In addition, FAR 15.408, Table 15-2 provides instructions on preparing a proposal and the supporting documentation required.  For assistance in proposal preparation, see publication Defense Contract Audit Agency Pamphlet (DCAAP) 7641.90 dated January 2005 entitled “Information for Contractors” published by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.  The full text of this publication is available on the Internet at . 

Business proposals will be submitted following the instructions included in Table 15-2 at FAR 15.408, the CLIN structure provided with the solicitation, and in accordance with the SOW.  The level of detail for the business proposal has been drawn from the SOW Table of Contents and has been identified in the business proposal spreadsheet templates.  

The business proposal is presumed to represent an Offeror’s best effort to respond to the solicitation.  Any inconsistency, whether real or apparent, between promised performance and price should be explained in the proposal.  Any significant inconsistency, if not explained, raises a fundamental issue of the understanding of the nature and scope of the work required and of the Offeror’s financial ability to perform the contract and may be grounds for rejection of the offer.  The burden of proof for cost credibility is with the Offeror.

Prospective Offerors, at a minimum, must submit a business proposal supported by information other than cost and pricing data (See FAR 15.4) adequate to establish the reasonableness and realism of the proposed business proposal.  

Facilities Capital Cost of Money:  Pursuant to HHSAR 315.404-4, when facilities capital cost of money (cost of capital committed to facilities) is included as an item of cost, a reduction in the profit objective shall be made in an amount equal to the amount of facilities capital cost of money proposed/claimed.  This effectively makes the inclusion of cost of money in a proposal as an element of cost irrelevant. 

Complementary Credits:  This information should not be included or discussed in any way in the Offeror’s proposal.  

Indirect Cost Rates:  In accordance with FAR 42.707, entitled “Cost Sharing Rates and Limitations on Indirect Cost Rates,” CMS will establish indirect cost ceilings in the contract.  The indirect cost ceilings may be established up to 3% above the indirect rates negotiated prior to award.  Offerors may, at their own election and based on their own business judgment, propose indirect cost ceilings below this 3%.  

Reimbursement will be limited to the negotiated indirect cost ceilings established in the contract.  The Government has no obligation to pay any additional amount to the contractor should the final indirect cost rates exceed the negotiated ceilings as stated in the contract.

Management or Corporate Investments.  For the purpose of this solicitation, CMS will not accept any type of management discount, corporate contribution, or corporate investment discount, or anything similar, that lowers an Offeror’s or subcontractor’s estimated cost.  The only reduction in Proposal price that CMS will accept is a reduction or elimination of proposed Offeror fees.

a.	VOLUME IIA - Business Proposal Cost Template Instructions 

The business proposal cost spreadsheets must be readable.

The Offeror shall use the business proposal templates and instructions (Attachments J-09 through J-17) for all business proposal spreadsheet submissions.  The business proposal spreadsheet templates indicate the levels of proposed costs that are to be provided to the extent that an Offeror’s accounting system is able to capture cost data for that particular section. 



Attachment J-10 is to be completed by the Offeror and provides a 1-page summary with the total for each CLIN.



Attachments J-11 Implementation period, J-12 Base period, J-13 Option Year 1, and J-17 Close-Out are to be submitted in their entirety, at the full WBS detail, as provided for in the cost template attachments.  For example, in the Base and Option Year 1 cost templates, WBS C.5.7. for Provider Customer Service Program is to be provided in its entirety to include the full breakout of the C.5.7.2. Provider Contact Center to include the details of C.5.7.2.1, C.5.7.2.2, C.5.7.2.3. and C.5.7.2.4. 



Attachments J-14, J-15, and J-16, for Option Years 2-4 (CLINs 0004-0006) are to be submitted at the CLIN Summary Level only as provided for in the cost templates.  These templates are to provide the information for SLIN 000xAA, SLIN 000xAB, SLIN 000xAC, etc.  There is not a further breakout of these SLINs.  No WBS breakout is requested for Option Years 2-4 (CLINs 0004-0006) in the cost templates. 



The Offeror shall complete the OCD and Travel spreadsheets for each CLIN, (Implementation, Base, Option Years 1-4 and the Close-out).



The Offeror should note that the cost templates do NOT contain a separate WBS for jurisdiction-specific section C.7.25 “WPS Legacy Part A Workload”.  While the SOW (attachment J-01) uses this section to provide explanation of the Part A legacy workload, this workload should be captured under the “usual” WBS elements in the cost templates, e.g., the cost for processing a Part A legacy workload claim should be captured the same as a Part A MAC claim.    



The CMS reserves the right to ask for additional drill down, if necessary, during the evaluation.



SPECIAL NOTE: Upon award, attachment J-11 (CLIN 0001 Implementation) and J-12 (CLIN 0002 Base) are required to be submitted in their entirety into CMS ART by the awardee.  



The Offeror shall use the business proposal spreadsheets for all pricing and include the following: 

Labor for Prime and Subcontractors:  Offeror shall provide labor rates for all labor categories that are expected to be used in the performance of the MAC contract.  Such labor rates shall be projected for the base period and all option periods.

Travel:  All travel costs proposed shall be reimbursed on a cost reimbursement basis in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR).  Offerors are required to submit a breakdown of proposed travel expenses consisting of the following:  “From” and “To” cities, number, types and purpose of trips, number of travelers, duration of trip for each destination, mileage, per diem, air fare, and miscellaneous expenses. Offeror shall complete the Travel tab found in the Cost Templates for each CLIN of the contract.  .  

Other Direct Costs (ODCs):  These include materials, equipment, etc. The Offeror shall consolidate ODCs into one line item. However, a separate schedule should be provided to breakdown ODCs. The schedule shall provide a detailed itemization of each ODC, including service center if applicable.

Subcontracts:  All proposed subcontractors shall submit complete business proposal spreadsheets in the same format as the Offeror’s business proposal spreadsheets.  Subcontractors may submit business proposal spreadsheets showing the breakdown of costs to CMS in a separately sealed package.

Additionally, please submit all applicable items required under L.15.b., Volume IIB, Written Business Proposal Narrative Instructions.  For instance, Tabs A, B, C, D, E, F, F.1, F.2, F. 3, H, I, J, K, L should be included. 

Indirect Rates:  The Offeror shall provide the indirect rates as applicable along with the relative percentages on the business proposal spreadsheets.  

Fee:  The Offeror shall provide each fee separately on the business proposal spreadsheets.

Summary Rollup of All Costs:  In addition to the individual contract line item summaries the Offeror shall include a summary sheet inclusive of all costs.

  8.  Basis of Estimate:  To provide CMS with an understanding of the Offeror’s basis 

       of estimate, the Offeror shall complete Attachment J-07, Basis of Estimate for the

       Base Period and each of Option periods 1, 2, 3, and 4 (CLINs 0002, 0003, 0004,

       0005, and 0006).  The detailed instructions for this template are included in 

       Attachment J-07.  The Offeror shall complete and submit Attachment J-07 in 

       Excel format (2007 version).  If an Offeror uses historical cost data as a basis of

       estimate, the Offeror should use recent data that is based on a minimum of six 

       months of performance.  The Offeror shall identify the period used to derive any

       historic productivity.  If the Offeror chooses to use a productivity baseline period 

       of less than six months duration, the Offeror shall provide a detailed rationale

       to support the use of a shorter base of supporting productivity metrics.  Inadequate

       support of proposed productivities may impact the Government’s

       assessment of the reasonability of the Offeror’s proposed level of effort.



b.	VOLUME IIB – Written Business Proposal Narrative Instructions

The business proposal narratives shall include the following:

Tab A: Table of Contents

Offerors shall include a Table of Contents that identifies and clearly labels the various business proposal sections.  

Tab A.1:  Acronym Dictionary

Offerors shall include an acronym dictionary that defines all acronyms cited in the proposal.

Tab B: Proposal Checklist

Offerors shall complete the proposal checklist provided at Attachment J-18. 

Tab C: Contract Form and Representation and Certifications

The SF-33 and the Representations and Certifications contained in Section K must be executed by an official authorized to bind the Offeror and provided by the Prime Contractor and subcontractors.  In addition, Sections B, G and H of the RFP shall be completed where applicable. 

Tab D: Indirect Cost Rate Agreement and Rate History 

The Offeror shall provide a rate history for indirect rates for the last two fiscal years.  If they are not available or do not exist, a statement to this effect shall be made.  The Contractor shall also provide a copy of any forward pricing rate agreements and government approved indirect cost rate agreements used in pricing herein. 

If the Contractor has no prior history of government approved indirect cost rates, then support documentation consisting of; prior 2 years and a current year operating budget; and, a forecast covering the anticipated period of performance shall be submitted.  The budget should also detail the indirect expenses and show the relationship of direct labor (or other indirect expenses allocation bases) to sales projections.  (Source: DCAAP 7641.90) 

Tab E: Organization Structure 

Offerors shall submit an organization structure chart that depicts the relationships between the parent company and its subsidiaries and affiliates (if applicable).  This structure should also include Business Units, Divisions, etc.  Another organization structure chart should be provided in subcontractor submissions (if applicable).

Tab F: Other Narrative Information

CMS will use Tab F, Other Narrative Information, to support the review of the Offeror’s business proposal. 

Tab F.1: Business Proposal Assumptions 

Offerors shall provide all proposal assumptions for both its Technical (Volume I) and Business (Volume II) proposals in detail that are used in preparing their business proposal spreadsheet submission.  The Offeror shall use Attachment J-25 Proposal Assumption Template to document these assumptions. The Offeror shall clearly mark each assumption as applying to either the Technical or Business Proposal. Assumptions should include rationale for all business proposal elements.



The business proposal narratives shall be used to support the business proposal spreadsheets (Volume IIA) and include, at a minimum, the following: 



Labor:

The Offeror’s proposed labor rates shall be supported with payroll information, letters of intent or salary survey information. 



If the labor rates are escalated, the Offeror shall provide rationale for the proposed escalation rate.

The Offeror’s productive labor hours for exempt and non-exempt employees.

The Offeror shall provide labor rationale by labor category and should describe how the basis of the hours was determined (e.g. historical data, technical experience, etc.). 

Travel:  

The Offeror shall provide the basis of estimate and detailed rationale for all travel.  

The Offeror shall submit a copy of their corporate travel policy.

ODCs:

The Offeror shall provide the basis of estimate and detailed rationale for each item of ODC.

Fee: 

The Offeror shall provide the basis of estimate and detailed rationale for all proposed fee.  The Offeror shall also disclose if any fees are added to the subcontractors.



Innovations:



For each innovation proposed under Tab C.3 of the Technical Proposal that has an associated cost, the Offeror shall identify where these costs are included in its CLIN templates. In addition, the Offeror shall fully disclose its process for arriving at the cost estimates for each innovation on this contract.



Tab F.2: Uncompensated Overtime

Offerors are required to include a copy of its policy on “uncompensated overtime” with the business proposal (FAR 52.237-10).  Uncompensated overtime is defined as “hours worked without additional compensation in excess of an average of 40 hours per week by direct charge employees who are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act.”

Tab F.3: Total Compensation Plan (FAR 52.222-46)

The Offeror shall submit a total compensation plan setting forth proposed salaries and fringe benefits for professional employees working on the contract. Supporting information will include data, such as recognized national and regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations, used in establishing the total compensation structure

Tab G: Subcontracts

It is the responsibility of the Prime to ensure that all subcontracts are evaluated in accordance with FAR Part 52.244-2.

The Offeror’s business proposal narrative submission shall include the following subcontract information to be evaluated:

a.	A copy of the subcontract agreement which includes, at a minimum:

The supplies or services to be subcontracted with identification of associated SOW tasks; 

(2)	Identification of the type of subcontract to be used (e.g. Time and Material, Firm Fixed Price);

(3)	Proposed subcontract price; and, 

Flow down of appropriate FAR and prime contract clause from prime contractor.

Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data; as appropriate, 

c.	Subcontract Negotiation Memorandum reflecting:

The principal elements of the subcontract price negotiations;

The most significant considerations controlling establishment of initial or revised prices;

The reason cost or pricing data were or were not required;

The extent, if any, to which the Offeror relied on the subcontractor’s cost or pricing data in determining the price objective and in negotiating the final price;

The extent to which it was recognized in the negotiation that the subcontractor’s cost and pricing data were not accurate, complete or current; the action taken by the Offeror and the subcontract; and the effect of any such defective data on the total price negotiated;

The reasons for any significant difference between the Offeror’s price objective and the price negotiated; and, 

A complete explanation of the incentive fee or profit plan when incentives are used.  The explanation shall identify each critical performance element, management decision used to quantify each incentive element, reasons for the incentives, and a summary of all trade-off possibilities considered.

d.	Extent to which adequate price competition was obtained, or justification for its absence.

Statement as to whether the proposed subcontractor is on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Non-procurement Programs.   In addition, Offerors should include, in full, the Subcontracting Agreement, if there is one, for any SAS-70 or COI Audit work. 

Tab H: Equipment and Property

Equipment to be purchased:  If additional equipment must be acquired, you must include in your business proposal the description and estimated cost of each item and whether you propose to furnish the item with your own funds.

Government Property:

It is the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) policy that contractors provide all equipment and facilities necessary for performance of the contract; however, in some instances, an exception may be granted to furnish government owned property or to authorize a purchase with contract funds. 

You must identify all government-owned property in your possession and all property acquired from federal funds, to which you have title, which is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract.

The management and control of government property must be in accordance with HHS Publication entitled, "Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property (December 9, 2008).Attachment J-26.

Offerors will be provided Government Property in accordance with Attachment J-05.

Tab I: Disclosure Statement 

Offerors (other than small businesses) shall submit a Disclosure Statement in accordance with FAR Part 30 (See also K.5).  If your CAS Disclosure Statement has previously been considered adequate, please indicate this by providing the following information: Approving agency, Point of Contact and phone number, and the date of the determination

Tab J: Adequate Accounting and Estimating Systems

Offerors shall have accounting and estimating systems that are in compliance with applicable Contract Cost Principles and Procedures of FAR Part 31, Contract Cost Principles and Procedures, as well as FAR Appendix A, Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) in order to be considered for award of a Cost type task order.  Offerors shall state if their practices used in estimating costs are consistent with their cost accounting practices used in accumulating, segregating and reporting costs.

The Contractor shall state whether or not they have a government approved accounting system as identified in Section K.  In the event that the Contractor does not have a government approved accounting system and/or have never had a government cost reimbursement contract, the following information is required:

a.	A Provisional Indirect Rate Submission package shall be prepared in accordance with 

the schedule and detail prescribed in the Publication DCAAP 7641.90 dated January 2005, titled “Information for Contractors” published by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.  This publication is only a guide and the specific contractor’s situation must be used in preparing the Provisional Rate Package. Specific examples of the detail required are covered in Chapter 3 of the aforementioned document.  Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the proposed provisional indirect rates being classified as “deferrable allowable cost” reimbursable pending validation of the indirect rates.  The package should include all schedule detail and explanation for the basis and rational of the indirect rates proposed.   



b.	Provide information that describes the basis and relationships of the proposed indirect expense rates including overhead, general and administrative, material and fringe benefits amounts, if applicable. (Source: DCAAP 7641.90, pp. 25)  

Tab K: Service Contract Act

Offerors should identify those proposed labor categories subject to the Service Contract Act of 1965, as Amended (FAR 22.10) and provide a crosswalk to the labor category in the applicable Wage Determination for their place of performance.  Offerors may obtain Wage Determinations at  (click on “selecting SCA WDs” to obtain wage determination).  

Tab L: Responsibility Determination

The Contracting Officer will make a responsibility determination in accordance with FAR Subpart 9.1.  The Offeror shall demonstrate the degree to which it has met each area of responsibility.  The Offeror shall submit sufficient, current and adequate documentation that demonstrates the Offeror has addressed each area of responsibility below.  If no information is available, Offerors shall state non-applicable.  CMS will evaluate and assess the documentation and other available information in making a responsibility determination.  The responsibility determination is not point-scored; however, it will be used as a factor in making a contract award. 

Offeror’s Financial Capability:  Your proposal must indicate whether you have the necessary financial capacity, working capital, and other resources to perform the contract without assistance from any outside source (If not, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source).  

At a minimum, CMS will require that an Offeror has a net worth in excess of 10% of the annual total cost-plus-fee.  CMS reserves the right to require a higher level of capitalization/net worth and/or guarantees in a particular case, or to require a higher level of financial capability as a condition for exercise of an option of a contract.  

Fiscal Statements:  Include a copy of audited financial statements for the past two years.  If an audited financial statement is not available, provide the most recent revised, compiled or internally prepared financial statement.  Offerors that are newly formed entities will submit the financial statements of the ‘parent’ company(ies).

Working Capital:  In reviewing the financial statement, CMS will apply standard tests to ensure that the company has adequate working capital to operate the contract(s).  Standard Form 1407, which is often used for pre-award surveys, identifies these tests.  For instance, the amount of cash and cash-equivalents will be compared to near-term liabilities.  

Internal Controls:  CMS will review any and all available information relating to the Offeror’s establishment and operational effectiveness of their internal control system designed to provide reasonable assurance financial, programmatic and compliance objectives.  Examples of information that CMS may review as evidence of the design and effectiveness of an Offeror’s internal control system includes previous Statement on Auditing Standards 70 review results, independent third party reviews of the system, corporate integrity program or other such information as CMS deems appropriate.  

Tab M: Small Business Subcontracting Plan

Offerors are required to submit a small business subcontracting plan in accordance with Section L.6 and FAR 52.219-9. The small business subcontracting plan shall cover the entire contract period.  The Offeror shall submit their small business subcontracting plan for each contract period separately (Base Period, Period 1, etc.)

L.16	VOLUME III – CONFLICT OF INTEREST ORGANIZATION

The Offeror’s conflict of interest shall be organized as follows:





L.17	VOLUME III – CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS

Volume III shall include the following:

TAB A:  Organizational Conflict of Interest

The Offerors must disclose all contracts currently held with CMS and contracts held with parties other than CMS, as a Prime, as a Subcontractor, for its parent company, subsidiaries or other affiliated entities that the Offeror’s Compliance Officer has determined could create or present an organizational conflict of interest with the work to be performed as the A/B MAC for this procurement (See § H.3).  For each of these disclosed contracts, Offerors must provide the following:

(a) Identify whether the Offeror is a Prime, Subcontractor, parent company, subsidiary, or other affiliated entity



(b) Contract Number



(c) Period of Performance



(d) Points of Contact (Project Officer and Contracting Officer)



(e) Contract Cost



(f) Short Description



(g) For each contract held with CMS, the Offeror must state whether the identified entity has an organizational conflict of interest for each of the following: (1) Unequal Access to Information, (2) Biased Ground Rule, and/or (3) Impaired Objectivity.  If a potential organization conflict of interest is identified, the Offeror must submit a mitigation plan.



For each contract held with parties other than CMS, the Offeror must state whether the identified entity has an organizational conflict of interest for each of the following: (1) Unequal Access to Information, (2) Biased Ground Rule, and/or (3) Impaired Objectivity.  If a potential organization conflict of interest is identified, the Offeror must submit a mitigation plan.





All proposed subcontractor(s), teaming arrangement member(s), and other performing affiliate(s) must disclose all contracts currently held with CMS and contracts held with parties other than CMS as a Prime and Subcontractor, at the same level required under (a) through (h) as stated above.



TAB B: Conflict of Interest Evaluation



Offerors should be free, to the greatest extent possible, of all conflicts of interest.  Therefore, the Offeror is required to submit the disclosure of information contained in contract section H.3.d, Conflict of Interest Evaluation, in order to be considered for award.  Failure to submit the required information may result in an Offeror’s proposal being deemed unacceptable.

Examples of methods an Offeror may use to mitigate conflicts of interest, including those created as a result of the financial relationships of individuals within the organization are provided below.  The examples are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the possible methods to mitigate conflicts of interest.  Further, the Contracting Officer is not obligated to approve a mitigation method that uses one or more of these examples.  An Offeror’s method of mitigating conflicts of interest will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

Examples include:

(1) Divestiture of, or reduction in the amount of, the financial relationship the organization has in another organization to a level acceptable to CMS and appropriate for the situation;

(2) If shared responsibilities create the conflict, a plan to separate lines of business and management or critical staff from work on the MAC contract should be included in the Conflicts of Interest Certificate approved by CMS;

(3) If the conflict exists because of the financial relationships of individual(s) within the organization, divestiture of the relationships by the individual(s) involved;

(4) If the conflict exists because of an individual’s indirect interest, divestiture of the interest to levels acceptable to CMS or removal of the individual from the work under the contract.

L.18	52.215-20 REQUIREMENTS FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997) – ALT IV (OCT 1997)

a.	 Exceptions from cost or pricing data. 



(1) 	In lieu of submitting cost or pricing data, Offerors may submit a written request for exception by submitting the information described in the following paragraphs. The Contracting Officer may require additional supporting information, but only to the extent necessary to determine whether an exception should be granted, and whether the price is fair and reasonable. 



(i) 	Identification of the law or regulation establishing the price offered. If the price is controlled under law by periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a governmental body, attach a copy of the controlling document, unless it was previously submitted to the contracting office. 



(ii) Commercial item exception. For a commercial item exception, the Offeror shall submit, at a minimum, information on prices at which the same item or similar items have previously been sold in the commercial market that is adequate for evaluating the reasonableness of the price for this acquisition. Such information may include— 



(A) For catalog items, a copy of or identification of the catalog and its date, or the appropriate pages for the offered items, or a statement that the catalog is on file in the buying office to which the proposal is being submitted. Provide a copy or describe current discount policies and price lists (published or unpublished), e.g., wholesale, original equipment manufacturer, or reseller. Also explain the basis of each offered price and its relationship to the established catalog price, including how the proposed price relates to the price of recent sales in quantities similar to the proposed quantities; 



(B) For market-priced items, the source and date or period of the market quotation or other basis for market price, the base amount, and applicable discounts. In addition, describe the nature of the market; 



(C) For items included on an active Federal Supply Service Multiple Award Schedule contract, proof that an exception has been granted for the schedule item. 



(2) The Offeror grants the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the right to examine, at any time before award, books, records, documents, or other directly pertinent records to verify any request for an exception under this provision, and the reasonableness of price. For items priced using catalog or market prices, or law or regulation, access does not extend to cost or profit information or other data relevant solely to the Offeror’s determination of the prices to be offered in the catalog or marketplace. 



(b) Requirements for cost or pricing data. If the Offeror is not granted an exception from the requirement to submit cost or pricing data, the following applies:



Alternate IV



Submission of cost or pricing data is not required.



Provide information as described in Sections L.12 through L.18.



L.19	INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFEROR – CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (CCR) DATABASE



In accordance with FAR 52.204-7, the Offeror shall acknowledge the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any award resulting from this solicitation.  FAILURE TO REGISTER IN CCR WILL PROHIBIT CMS FROM MAKING AN AWARD TO YOUR ORGANIZATION.  



The prospective awardee must enter all mandatory data fields, including the Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number or DUNS + 4 number into the CCR database.  (see FAR:  52.204-6 Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number).  The prospective awardee must also enter all Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) data into the CCR database.

The prospective awardee is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database.  At a minimum, the prospective awardee must review and update the CCR database.  

The prospective awardee is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database.  At a minimum, the prospective awardee must review and update the CCR database on an annual basis.

Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423.

L.20	SECTION 508 ACCESSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (EIT) TO FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC WITH DISABILITIES

Offerors are advised that any resultant contract awarded under this solicitation may be subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation of 1973 (29 U.S.C 794d) as amended by the workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220).  Specifically, subsection 508(a)(1) requires that when the Federal Government procures EIT, the EIT must allow federal employees and individuals of the public with disabilities comparable access to and use of information and data that is provided to federal employees and individuals of the public without disabilities.  Offers are advised to review the Section 508 solicitation provisions at Section H.6.


SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

M.1	GENERAL PROCEDURES

a.	General

Award will be made to the Offeror(s) whose proposal offers the best overall value to the Government.  This will be determined by a trade-off technique that allows the Government to consider award to other than the lowest cost Offeror or other than the highest technically rated Offeror in accordance with FAR Part 15.101-1.  It permits tradeoffs among cost and non-cost evaluation factors. 

Offerors are advised that primary consideration will be given to the technical quality of the proposals in the evaluation process.  In accordance with FAR 15.101-1(b)(2), all evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price.  Although cost is not controlling, cost reasonableness and realism will be considered.   CMS will perform a cost analysis on the total estimated cost to determine if it is fair and reasonable.  CMS will also perform a cost realism analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(d) to determine whether the estimated proposed cost elements are realistic for the work to be performed, reflect a clear understanding of the requirement and are consistent with the unique methods of performance and materials described in the Offeror’s technical proposal.

Contract Award Limit

This A/B MAC Jurisdiction 5  procurement in a series of A/B MAC re-competitions that will be subject to a limitation of award. The following section identifies the conditions of the A/B MAC award limitation.

Limitation Parameters

CMS will not award more than 26.0% of the national A/B Medicare workload, in A/B MAC prime contracts, to any single contractor (single corporate entity).  In addition, CMS will not award more than 40.0% of the national A/B Medicare workload, in A/B MAC prime contracts, to any one set of affiliates.  



CMS is placing no limitation on the number of A/B MAC prime contracts for which any entity, or entities, may submit proposals.  As A/B MAC prime contracts are awarded, the awardee’s Medicare workload base will be appropriately adjusted, thereby potentially impacting other bid proposals that may be pending. 



Definitions

In this A/B MAC prime contract award limit policy, terms have their common dictionary meaning.  The following specific definitions shall apply:





Application

CMS will determine whether or not Offerors exceed the limitation on workload at the time of award, and will exclude Offerors from consideration on such basis at this time.



Attribution Rules 

Bid Protests

In the event that a protest is filed at the agency or in any forum against a given A/B MAC prime contract award, CMS will continue to attribute the A/B MAC Medicare workload under the contract to the awardee, for purposes of computing the awardee’s status under this policy, during the agency review period, Government Accountability Office review period as established in FAR Part 33, or duration of review by the Court of Federal Claims.



However, in the event that CMS initiates corrective action, for any reason, for a given A/B MAC prime contract award, CMS will cease to attribute the A/B MAC Medicare workload associated with such corrective action to the awardees’ business base.







Proposals and Incumbency



For the purpose of computing an incumbent contractor’s A/B MAC prime contract national A/B Medicare workload, CMS will not attribute the Medicare workload value of an existing A/B MAC contract to the incumbent contractor where CMS can definitively establish that the given incumbent contractor will not be under contract for the follow-on or successor A/B MAC contract.  CMS will definitively establish that the incumbent will not obtain follow-on work if:



the given A/B MAC prime contract is terminated;

the incumbent does not submit a prime contract proposal for the given A/B MAC workload as it is re-competed;

during CMS’s review of the proposal, the proposal has been rejected from further consideration, for any reason including, but not limited to, rejection of a non-responsive proposal or exclusion from the competitive range.  In the event of a protest due to non-responsive determination and/or competitive range exclusion, CMS will continue to attribute the workload under the protested contract to the incumbent until all protests are resolved;

upon CMS’s final evaluation of proposals, the incumbent is not the awardee (subject to the final resolution of any protests and/or corrective actions as identified in 4(a) herein).



Exclusions



The Durable Medical Equipment (DME) MACs are subject to a separate contract award limit, and so CMS will not consider workloads under the DME MACs in applying this policy.



Exception



In order to ensure continuity in Medicare fee-for-service operations, CMS holds the discretion to award a given A/B MAC prime contract to a given contractor, even if doing so will otherwise exceed the A/B MAC prime contract Medicare workload allowed by this policy.







Workload Tables



Current Round I A/B MAC workload percentages





The following workload percentages apply to the future round of A/B MAC procurements:





c.	Technical Evaluation 

The Technical Evaluation Panel (TEP) will evaluate Volume I of the Proposal by applying the evaluation factors in Section M.3.  Each technical proposal will be evaluated qualitatively and categorized using adjectival ratings in relation to the evaluation factors listed in Section M.3.



The TEP will evaluate the Offeror’s proposal against the following evaluation factors which are equal in importance:



Past Performance

Technical Understanding

d.	Business Proposal Evaluation

The business proposal will be analyzed and evaluated, but not assigned an adjectival rating to determine the reasonableness and the realism of the proposed cost.  The purpose of this cost realism will be to determine what the Government should realistically pay for the proposed effort, if the Offeror’s proposed costs reflect the Offeror’s understanding of the Government’s requirements, and if the proposed costs are consistent with the various elements of the Offeror’s technical proposal.  The proposed cost for the base period requirements will be added to the proposed cost of the four, options periods to come up with a total proposed estimated cost. 

e.	Evaluation of Conflict of Interest Certification

Conflict of Interest certificates will be reviewed in accordance with contract section H.3 and Section L.17 of this solicitation.  The Government will review the Offeror’s Conflict of Interest (COI) submission of information required in Section H.3 and Section L.17 and make a determination if the Offeror meets the COI requirements. CMS will not enter into a contract with an entity that CMS determines has, or has the potential for, an unresolved organizational conflict of interest unless CMS determines that the risk can be sufficiently mitigated or unless the conflict is waived following FAR procedures and requirements.  CMS will treat COIs consistent with the FAR.  CMS may ask discussion questions related to COIs prior to an apparent awardee being identified by CMS.  

f.	Evaluation of Cost

Cost is not considered in the capability determination, and is not the most important evaluation factor.  However, the importance of cost will increase with the degree of technical equality of the proposals.  Further, after evaluation of the Technical, Business, and Conflict of Interest and Compliance Program proposals, cost may be the deciding factor for selection, depending upon whether a highly evaluated technical proposal warrants the evaluated cost differential.  Award will be made using cost-technical tradeoffs and will be made to the Offeror whose proposal represents the best value.  CMS will conduct a cost realism analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(d)



g.	Clarification/Communications with Offerors Before and After Establishment of the Competitive Range

In accordance with FAR 15.306, Exchanges with Offerors After Receipt of Proposals, the Government may be required to conduct clarifications and/or communications with the Offeror prior to the establishment of the Competitive Range, if a Competitive Range is established.  Discussions, as defined in FAR 15.306(d), may be conducted after establishment of the Competitive Range.

An Offeror should not assume that the Contracting Officer will independently obtain information necessary to evaluate its proposal or that the Contracting Officer will conduct any discussions prior to award, therefore Offerors should supply all information required to evaluate its proposal.  Failure to provide the information required in order to evaluate a proposal could result in rejection of the proposal as being technically unacceptable.

h.	Competitive Range

Offerors will be notified by letter whether or not it has been included in the Competitive Range, if a Competitive Range is set.  Offerors not in the Competitive Range will be eliminated from further consideration for award.  Offerors excluded or otherwise eliminated from the Competitive Range may request a debriefing in accordance with FAR 15.505, Pre-award Debriefing of Offerors.  

i.	Discussions

After announcement of the Competitive Range, if one is set, and upon completion of discussions, if any are held, in accordance with FAR 15.3, a request for final revised proposals will be issued to all Offerors still within the Competitive Range.  If, after discussions have begun, an Offeror originally in the Competitive Range is no longer considered to be among the most highly rated Offerors being considered for award, that Offeror may be eliminated from the Competitive Range whether or not all material aspects of the proposal have been discussed, or whether or not the Offeror has been afforded an opportunity to submit a proposal revision. 

After receipt and evaluation of a final revised proposal, an Offeror may be selected for award and may be involved in final negotiations.  The content of such negotiations would not have any bearing on the selection process and would be in accordance with HHSAR 315.370, “Finalization of Details with the Selected Source.” 

The Offeror is reminded that inclusion in the Competitive Range is not a guarantee for award of a contract.  

j.	Source Selection

Selection will be made in accordance with FAR Subpart 15.3, Source Selection. Selection will be made to that responsible Offeror(s) whose offer, conforming to the solicitation, will be most advantageous to the Government based on technical merit, cost/price realism and other factors specified in this solicitation

M.2	EVALUATION OF ATTESTATIONS

The CMS may use Attestations to determine whether proposals are acceptable.   There will be three attestations submitted with the initial MAC proposal. The attestations will be in the areas of Information Security Plan, Corporate Experience, and Compliance Program. If an Offeror does not submit an attestation in accordance with the solicitation, the proposal may be deemed unacceptable.  If CMS discovers that an Offeror has submitted a false Attestation(s) following the acceptability determination, the proposal shall be deemed unacceptable and shall be removed from award consideration.

M.3	CAPABILITIES DETERMINATION FOR AWARD 



The evaluation of the Offeror’s technical proposal will result in an adjectival rating (Green, Yellow, or Red) for each factor listed below to be evaluated based on a capability determination (High Expectation of Successful Performance, Reasonable Expectation of Successful Performance, and Low Expectation of Successful Performance). The highest adjectival rating is Green and the lowest rating is Red. 

The Offeror’s Capability is comprised of two factors which are of equal importance:

Past Performance

Technical Understanding



The factors will be assigned an adjectival rating after consideration of all identified findings.

 

After rating the two factors, CMS will consider these factor adjectival ratings and findings in determining the proposal that represents the best value to the Government.

Past Performance

In accordance with FAR 9.104-1, General standards, the Offeror must have a satisfactory performance record in order to be considered for award.  See also FAR 9.104-3(b), Satisfactory Performance Record, and FAR 42.15, Contractor Performance Information.  Past performance information will be used to assess responsibility and to evaluate technical merit in accordance with FAR 15.305 and any requirements of this solicitation. 

The evaluation of past performance will be based on the Offeror’s demonstrated ability, under contracts of a similar nature, scope, and complexity as the MAC contract to successfully meet the requirements of the SOW in this solicitation.  In performing its review of past performance, CMS will link all of its past performance findings to one or more of the following aspects:

Customer Service - The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to maintain a high level of service and satisfaction to Medicare FFS providers/suppliers, and the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to effectively respond to provider/supplier inquiries and complex beneficiary inquiries about the Medicare program. The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to maintain effective provider/supplier education that achieves accurate billing with prompt and correct provider/supplier payment, and the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to facilitate Medicare beneficiary healthcare through well-informed FFS providers/suppliers. The CMS may also consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with CMS and its Business partners to foster integration of Medicare operations. Business partners include, but are not limited to: other Government entities (including, but not limited to, Congress), and other CMS contractors responsible for FFS benefit administration support activities (i.e., Qualified Independent Contractor (QIC), Zone Provider Integrity Contractor (ZPIC), Enterprise Data Center (EDC), and other contractors identified in the MAC SOW). 

Financial Management – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to promote the fiscal integrity of Medicare FFS benefit administration and be an accountable steward of trust fund dollars. The CMS may also evaluate the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to process adjustments timely, accurately, and reliably. 

Operational Excellence – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to promote corporate integrity, establish an effective organization alignment, establish internal controls, and effectively promote and manage its employees and information systems. The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated adherence to the contract schedule, including, but not limited to, transition/implementation activities and contract administration activities; the Offeror’s demonstrated compliance with contract requirements and standards (e.g. the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to pay claims timely, accurately, and reliably); and the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to control the administrative costs of the contract. 

Innovations and Technology – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to foster efficiencies in the administration of the Medicare FFS program, and the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to use innovations and creative technological solutions to improve Medicare FFS program operations. The CMS may also consider the Offeror’s demonstrated ability to develop and continually refine business processes to foster excellence and quality in the administration of the Medicare FFS Program.

Technical Understanding

The evaluation of technical understanding will be based on the Offeror’s proposed approach, under Tab C (inclusive of all sub-tabs).  In performing its review of technical understanding, CMS will link all of its technical understanding findings to one or more of the following aspects:

Customer Service - The CMS may consider the Offeror’s ability to maintain a high level of service and satisfaction to Medicare FFS providers/suppliers, and the Offeror’s ability to effectively respond to provider/supplier inquiries and complex beneficiary inquiries about the Medicare program. The CMS may consider the Offeror’s ability to maintain effective provider/supplier education that achieves accurate billing with prompt and correct provider/supplier payment, and the Offeror’s ability to facilitate Medicare beneficiary healthcare through well-informed FFS providers/suppliers. The CMS may also consider the Offeror’s ability to work collaboratively with CMS and its Business partners to foster integration of Medicare operations. Business partners include, but are not limited to: other Government entities (including, but not limited to, Congress), and other CMS contractors responsible for FFS benefit administration support activities (i.e., Qualified Independent Contractor (QIC), Zone Provider Integrity Contractor (ZPIC), Enterprise Data Center (EDC), and other contractors identified in the MAC SOW). 

Financial Management – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s ability to promote the fiscal integrity of Medicare FFS benefit administration and be an accountable steward of trust fund dollars. The CMS may also consider the Offeror’s ability to process adjustments timely, accurately, and reliably. 

Operational Excellence – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s ability to promote corporate integrity; establish an effective organization alignment; establish internal controls; effectively establish and manage its employees and infrastructure; and consistently implement information technology systems in order to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Medicare system operations. The CMS may consider the Offeror’s adherence to the contract schedule, including, but not limited to, transition/implementation activities and contract administration activities; the Offeror’s compliance with contract requirements and standards (e.g. the Offeror’s ability to pay claims timely, accurately, and reliably); and the Offeror’s ability to control the administrative costs of the contract. 

Innovations and Technology – The CMS may consider the Offeror’s ability to foster efficiencies in the administration of the Medicare FFS program, and the Offeror’s ability to use innovations and creative technological solutions to improve Medicare FFS program operations. The CMS may also consider the Offeror’s ability to develop and continually refine business processes to foster excellence and quality in the administration of the Medicare FFS Program.



CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0001
IMPLEMENTATION 
TBD – TBD

CLIN 0001
IMPLEMENTATION 
TBD – TBD

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL CLIN 0001 – A/B MAC IMPLEMENTAION

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD



CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0002 – A/B MAC SERVICES/BASE YEAR OPERATIONS OPTION
TBD – TBD

CLIN 0002 – A/B MAC SERVICES/BASE YEAR OPERATIONS OPTION
TBD – TBD

 

 

 

 

 

0002AA Part A/Program  Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AB Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AC Part B/Program Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AD Part B/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AG Part A/ Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AH Part B/Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0002AJ HITECH Incentive Payments Resulting from ARRA

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TOTAL CLIN 0002 – A/B MAC SERVICES/BASE YEAR OPERATIONS OPTION

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD































CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0003 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 1
TBD - TBD

CLIN 0003 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 1
TBD - TBD

 

 

 

 

 

0003AA Part A/Program  Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AB Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AC Part B/Program Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AD Part B/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AG Part A/ Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AH Part B/Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0003AJ HITECH Incentive Payments Resulting from ARRA

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TOTAL CLIN 0003 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 1

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD



CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0004 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 2
TBD - TBD

CLIN 0004 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 2
TBD - TBD

 

 

 

 

 

0004AA Part A/Program  Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AB Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AC Part B/Program Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AD Part B/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AG Part A/ Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AH Part B/Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0004AJ HITECH Incentive Payments Resulting from ARRA

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TOTAL CLIN 0004 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 2

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD































CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0005 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 3 
TBD - TBD

CLIN 0005 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 3 
TBD - TBD

 

 

 

 

 

0005AA Part A/Program  Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AB Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AC Part B/Program Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AD Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AG Part A/ Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AH Part B/Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0005AJ HITECH Incentive Payments Resulting from ARRA

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TOTAL CLIN 0005 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 3

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD



CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN 0006 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 4
TBD - TBD

CLIN 0006 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 4
TBD - TBD

 

 

 

 

 

0006AA Part A/Program  Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AB Part A/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AC Part B/Program Management

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AD Part B/Medicare Integrity Program

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AG Part A/ Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AH Part B/Program Management; Recovery Audit Contract (RAC)

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

0006AJ HITECH Incentive Payments Resulting from ARRA

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TOTAL CLIN 0006 – A/B MAC SERVICES/OPTION YEAR 4

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

















CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLIN0007 – A/B MAC CLOSEOUT

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD





















CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER

ESTIMATED COST

BASE
 FEE

AWARD
FEE

TOTAL 
EST.
CPAF

EST. 
COMP
CREDITS*

TOTAL CPAF NET EST COMP CREDITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL – A/B  MAC 

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

















CLIN

DESCRIPTION

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

0001

Implementation

3.5 months from effective date of contract award*

0002

Option - Base Period Operations

8.5 months after exercise of option*

0003

Option - Year 1 Operations

12 months from exercise of option

0004

Option - Year 2 Operations

12 months from exercise of option

0005

Option - Year 3 Operations

12 months from exercise of option

0006

Option - Year 4 Operations

12 months from exercise of option

0007

Option - Outgoing Contractor

Workload Transition Activities

Not to exceed 6 months from exercise of option**

*CLIN 0001 and CLIN 0002 should be completed within 12 months after date of contract award.

*CLIN 0001 and CLIN 0002 should be completed within 12 months after date of contract award.

*CLIN 0001 and CLIN 0002 should be completed within 12 months after date of contract award.

**This option may be exercised approximately 6 months prior to the expiration of the current year of performance.

**This option may be exercised approximately 6 months prior to the expiration of the current year of performance.

**This option may be exercised approximately 6 months prior to the expiration of the current year of performance.



Name

Rate Per Hour

Number of Hours

Total Cost Not to Exceed

(To be completed at time of award, if applicable)

(To be completed at time of award, if applicable)

(To be completed at time of award, if applicable)

(To be completed at time of award, if applicable)



CONTRACTING OFFICER TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR)

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Attn:   TBD



CONTRACTING OFFICER  (CO)

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

Division of Western Medicare Administrative Contracts

Attn:  Christina Honey, Mail Stop B2-14-21





(410) 786-5791

Email:  



CONTRACT SPECIALIST (CS)

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

Division of Western Medicare Administrative Contracts

Attn: TBD





(410) 786-5586

Email: TBD





Department of Health & Human Services

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

OFM/Division of Accounting Operations









Department of Health & Human Services

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

OFM/Division of Accounting Operations

/Mailstop: C3-11-03







EXAMPLE:	Contract No. -  500-00-XXXX

Sequence # - XX (YEAR) – XXXX

Subject - Request for Subcontract Consent





Contractor Fiscal Year

Indirect Cost Rate Description

Allocation Base

FINAL Indirect Cost Rate Ceilings

Insert at Time of Award







Insert at Time of Award







Insert at Time of Award









Director, Division of Financial Advisory Services

Office of Acquisition Management and Policy

National Institutes of Health

6100 Building, Room 6B05

 MSC-7540

 20892-7540



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Acquisition and Grants Management

Attn:  Christina Honey

7500 Security Boulevard, MS B2-14-21

Baltimore, MD  21244-1850



NAME

LABOR CATEGORY

PHONE

E-MAIL



Project Manager







Claims Processing Manager







Chief Financial Officer







Compliance Officer







Program Safeguard Contractor and Zone Program Integrity Contractor Liaison







Chief Information Officer







Systems Security Officer







Implementation Project Director







Provider Customer Service Program Manager







Contract Administrator







Contractor Medical Director







Audit and Reimbursement Manager/Director







Federal Government Standards

Rehabilitation Act, Section 508, Accessibility Standards

29 U.S.C. 794d (rehabilitation Act as amended)

36 CFR 1194 (508 standards)

508 Standards: 

Guide to Standards: 

508 guide: 





SOW section C.5.4.3	  Security

SOW section C.5.4.11 Compliance Program

Section I.8	             Privacy Act

Section H.5	             HIPAA



Carrier Medicare Claims Record (CMC)

System Record Number:  09-70-0501 



Intermediary Medicare Claims Record

System Record Number: 09-70-0503




Common Working File (CWF)

System Record Number:  09-70-0526



Intern and Resident Information System (IRIS)

System Record Number:  09-70-0524 



Provider Enrollment Chain and Ownership System ()

System Record Number: 09-70-0532 



Fiscal Intermediary Shared System (FISS)

System Record Number: 09-70-0503



Medicare Multi-Carrier Claims System (MCS)

System Record Number: 09-70-0501



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Operations Management

Security and Emergency Management Group

Mail Stop SL-13-15

7500 Security Boulevard

Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850





Office of Personnel Management

Freedom of Information

Federal Investigations Processing Center



Boyers, PA 16018-0618.



352.201-70

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (JAN 2006)

352.202-1

DEFINITIONS – ALTERNATE (h) (JAN 2006)

352.215-1

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS – COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION (JAN 2006)

352.215-70

LATE PROPOSALS AND REVISIONS (JAN 2006)	

352.216-70

ADDITIONAL COST PRINCIPLES (JAN 2006)

352.227-70

PUBLICATION AND PUBLICITY (JAN 2006)

352.228-7

INSURANCE – LIABILITY TO THIRD PERSONS (DEC 1991)

352.231-71

PRICING OF ADJUSTMENTS (JAN 2001)

352.233-71

LITIGATION AND CLAIMS (JAN 2006)

352.242-73

WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS (JAN 2006)

352.242-74

FINAL DECISIONS ON AUDIT FINDINGS (APR 1984)

352.270-1

ACCESSIBILITY OF MEETINGS, CONFERENCES, AND SEMINARS TO PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES (JAN 2001)



Poster(s)

Obtain From

To be completed at time of award









STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW) 

FEE-FOR-SERVICE SHARED SYSTEM BASE FUNCTIONS

BASE REPORTS PSCs/ZIPCs NEED

SOW APPENDICES – INCLUDES:
1)  KEY DEFINITIONS
2)  ACRONYM LIST
3)  DATA RELEASE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
4)  FOIA POLICY AND PROCEDURES

PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE 

SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

BILLING INSTRUCTIONS

GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY

AWARD FEE PLAN

J.6.A.          AWARD FEE PLAN TEMPLATE

BASIS OF ESTIMATE*

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE*

COST PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS*

CLIN SUMMARY

CLIN 0001 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – IMPLEMENTATION

CLIN 0002 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – BASE YEAR

CLIN 0003 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – OPTION YEAR 1

CLIN 0004 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – OPTION YEAR 2

CLIN 0005 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – OPTION YEAR 3

CLIN 0006 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – OPTION YEAR 4

CLIN 0007 COST PROPOSAL TEMPLATE – CLOSE OUT

PROPOSAL CHECKLIST

        NON-DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

J.20.A         WORKLOAD IMPLEMENTATION HANDBOOK – LEGACY TO MAC

J.20.B         WORKLOAD IMPLEMENTATION HANDBOOK – MAC TO MAC

J.20.C         WORKLOAD CLOSEOUT HANDBOOK – MAC

J.20.D        WORKLOAD CLOSEOUT HANDBOOK – LEGACY

        INFORMATION SECURITY ATTESTATION 

CORPORATE EXPERIENCE ATTESTATION    

COMPLIANCE ATTESTATION 

DIRECTIONS TO CENTAL OFFICE  

PROPOSAL ASSUMPTIONS  

CONTRACTOR FURNISHED PROPERTY 

CONTRACTING GUIDE FOR CONTRACT OF GOV’T PROPERTY

MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING – LEGACY FILES

STAFFING MATRIX

SERVICE CENTER MATRIX











(Name of Offeror)



(RFP No.)













(Signature of Authorized Individual)



(Date)













(Typed Name of Authorized Individual)





Note: The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 101.

Note: The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 101.

Note: The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 101.



FAR Clause #            Title            Date      Change 

      ____________        _________       _____      _______ 





(1)

Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement. The Offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: 





(2)

Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement. The Offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: 





(3)

Certificate of Monetary Exemption. The Offeror hereby certifies that the Offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The Offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the Offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. 



(4)

Certificate of Interim Exemption. The Offeror hereby certifies that (i) the Offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the Offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The Offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the Offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. 





Yes 



No 





Yes 



No 



52.215-16

FACILITIES CAPITAL  OF MONEY (JUN 2003)

52.215-22

Limitations on Pass-Through Charges—Identification of Subcontract Effort (OCT 2009)

52.217-5

52.222-24

EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)

PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE EVALUATION (FEB 1999)

52.222-46

EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993)

52.237-10

IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997)

52.252-3

ALTERATIONS IN SOLICITATION (APR 1984)



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

ATTN: Christina Honey, Mailstop B2-14-21

Email: Christina.Honey@cms.hhs.gov

7500 Security Boulevard

Baltimore, Maryland  21244-1850





Small Disadvantaged Businesses

5.00%

Women-owned Small Businesses

5.00%

HUBZone Businesses

3.00%

Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses

3.00%



Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

Office of Acquisitions and Grants Management

Attn: James Wilkerson, Contract Specialist

7500 Security Boulevard Mail Stop B2-14-21

Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850





SOW section C.5.4.3	Security

SOW section C.5.4.11Compliance Program

RFP section I.8	 Privacy Act

RFP section H.5	 HIPAA





Outgoing Contractor

State(s) 

Claim Type

Data Center

Implementation Cutover Date

CLIN

WPS

Remaining WPS legacy 

A

HPES

6/18/12

0001

WPS

IA/KS/MO/NE

A

HPES

7/23/12

0001

WPS

IA/KS/MO/NE 

B

HPES

8/20/12

0001



CLIN

Workload

Timeframe

CLIN 0001 – 

IMPLEMENTATION

Part A Legacy

J5 Part A

J5 Part B

3/9/2012 – 6/18/2012

3/9/2012 - 7/23/2012

3/9/2012 – 8/20/2012

CLIN 0002 – 

BASE

Part A Legacy

J5 Part A

J5 Part B

6/18/2012 – 3/8/2013 

7/23/2012 – 3/8/2013 

8/20/2012 – 3/8/2013 

CLIN 0003 - OPTION 1



3/9/2013 – 3/8/2014

CLIN 0004 - OPTION 2



3/9/2014 – 3/8/2015

CLIN 0005 - OPTION 3



3/9/2015 – 3/8/2016

CLIN 0006 - OPTION 4



3/9/2016 – 3/8/2017

CLIN 0007 – CLOSE OUT



9/20/2016 – 3/8/2017



Workload – A/B MAC Jurisdiction 5 

 

 

 

 

 

Workload – A/B MAC Jurisdiction 5 

 CLIN 0002
Base Year

 

 CLIN 0003
Option Year 1 

 CLIN 0004
Option Year 2 

 CLIN 0005
Option Year 3 

 CLIN 0006
Option Year 4 

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 PM Bills/Claims Part A Workload

 Electronic Claims 

          15,038,863 

           21,838,397 

             22,995,833 

                  24,352,586 

          25,691,978 

 Paper Claims 

                43,345 

                 60,975 

                    64,206 

                         67,995 

                71,734 

 Total Part A Claims 

          15,082,208 

           21,899,372 

             23,060,038 

                  24,420,580 

          25,763,712 

 Part A Claims Backlog - Pending Claims (31-60 days) 

                15,005 

 

 

 

 

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 PM Bills/Claims Part B Workload   

 Electronic Claims 

          24,333,344 

           43,625,890 

             45,981,688 

                  48,786,571 

          51,518,619 

 Paper Claims 

              647,033 

             1,160,029 

               1,222,670 

                    1,297,253 

            1,369,899 

 Total Part B Claims 

          24,980,377 

           44,785,919 

             47,204,359 

                  50,083,824 

          52,888,519 

 Part B Claims Backlog - Pending Claims 

                   307,242 

 

 

 

 

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 PM Appeals Part A & B of A Workload  

 Part A Redeterminations (Claims Cleared) 

                  4,065 

                   5,695 

                     5,997 

                           6,351 

                  6,700 

 Part B Redeterminations (Claims Cleared) 

                  1,721 

                   3,086 

                     3,252 

                           3,451 

                  3,644 

 RAC Redeterminations (Claims Cleared) 

                     176 

                      338 

                        338 

                             338 

                     338 

 QIC Requests Supported (Case Files Forwarded) 

                  1,808 

                   2,692 

                     2,835 

                           3,002 

                  3,168 

 Clerical Error Reopenings 

                  1,120 

                   1,833 

                     1,930 

                           2,045 

                  2,157 

 Non-Clerical Error Reopenings 

 

 

 

 

 

 Total Reopenings 

                  1,120 

                   1,883 

                     1,930 

                           2,045 

                  2,157 

Effectuations of Redeterminations (Claims) 

                  2,636 

                   3,930 

                     4,139 

                           4,383 

                  4,624 

Effectuations of Part A QIC Decisions (Claims) 

                     157 

                      232 

                        245 

                             260 

                     274 

Effectuations of Part A ALJ Decisions (Claims) 

                     778 

                   1,115 

                     1,175 

                           1,244 

                  1,312 

ALJ Hearings Participation/Support 

                       55 

                        58 

                          61 

                               64 

                       68 

Appeals Backlog - Pending Redeterminations 

                          978 

 

 

 

 

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 PM Appeals Part B Workload  

 Part B Redeterminations (Claims Cleared) 

                64,471 

               115,587 

                  121,828 

                       129,260 

              136,499 

 QIC Requests Supported (Case Files Forwarded) 

                  2,648 

                   4,748 

                     5,005 

                           5,310 

                  5,607 

 Redeterminations on RAC Determinations 

                          232 

                            428 

                               428 

                                     428 

                          428 

 Clerical Error Reopenings 

                45,096 

                 80,849 

                    85,215 

                         90,413 

                95,476 

 Non-Clerical Error Reopenings 

              189,103 

               339,031 

                  357,339 

                       379,137 

              400,369 

 Total Reopenings 

              234,198 

               419,881 

                  442,554 

                       469,550 

              495,845 

 Effectuations of Part B Redetermination Decisions (Claims) 

                40,117 

                 71,923 

                    75,806 

                         80,431 

                84,935 

 Effectuations of Part B QIC Decisions (Claims) 

                     799 

                   1,432 

                     1,510 

                           1,602 

                  1,692 

 Effectuations of Part B ALJ Decisions (Claims) 

                     350 

                      628 

                        662 

                             702 

                     741 

 ALJ Hearings Participation/Support 

                       53 

                        95 

                        100 

                             106 

                     112 

 Appeals Backlog - Pending Redeterminations 

                       6,182 

 

 

 

 

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part A Workload  

 Complex Beneficiary Inquiry Responses 

                     819 

                   1,068 

                     1,068 

                           1,068 

                  1,068 

FOIA Requests (NOTE:  this is for both Part A & B) 

                  2,132 

                   3,126 

                     3,285 

                           3,457 

                  3,633 

 Complex 2nd Level Screenings 

                          216 

                            290 

                               290 

                                     290 

                          290 

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 PM Beneficiary Inquiries Part B Workload  

 Complex Beneficiary Inquiry Responses 

                  1,918 

                   2,402 

                     2,402 

                           2,402 

                  2,402 

 Complex 2nd Level Screenings 

                          120 

                            222 

                               222 

                                     222 

                          222 

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  

 Participating Physicians Part B Workloads  



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 



Note * Base year volume is dependent on the timing of the start of operations. The complete enrollment package is mailed in November and would be performed by the outgoing contractor or the MAC, depending on who is responsible for the workload at that time. If the MAC is responsible, the workload would be approximately the same as Option Year 1. 

Enrollment Packages Mailed to Providers 

                     15,371 

                      15,371 

                         15,371 

                                15,371 

                     15,371 

  PAR Enrollments 

                             43 

                              80 

                                 80 

                                       80 

                             80 

  PAR Withdrawals 

                               4 

                                8 

                                   8 

                                          8 

                               8 

 Combined Enrollment and Withdrawals Processed 

                             44 

                              88 

                                 88 

                                       88 

                             88 

Limiting Charge Reports, Violations, and Complaints Processed      

                       1,701 

                        3,141 

                           3,141 

                                  3,141 

                       3,141 









































































 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 PM Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

Note: The number provided represents the provider population for the specified Jurisdiction. It is up to the bidder to determine the workload appropriate for each type of provider outreach and education activity. There are no minimum requirements for this function, so the bidder must develop their own strategy for how they can best service the provider population. 

 Nebraska Providers -(317) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Kansas Providers- (657) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Iowa Providers- (824) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Missouri Providers- (623) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Telephone 

                     57,509 

                      57,509 

                         57,509 

                                57,509 

                     57,509 

 IVR 

                     10,617 

                      10,617 

                         10,617 

                                10,617 

                     10,617 

 Written 

                          954 

                            954 

                               954 

                                     954 

                          954 

 Internet 

                   296,320 

                    296,320 

                       296,320 

                             296,320 

                   296,320 

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 WPS Legacy Part A Providers (by state)  

 Alabama- (111) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Alaska -(4) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Arizona- (49) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Arkansas- (26) 

 

 

 

 

 

 California- (52) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Colorado- (20) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Connecticut- (7) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Florida- (182) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Georgia- (227) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Idaho- (19) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Illinois -(229) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Indiana- (70) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Kentucky- (39) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Louisiana- (79) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Maine- (8) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Maryland- (4) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Massachusetts- (192) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Michigan- (40) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Minnesota- (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Mississippi- (37) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Montana- (9) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Nevada- (15) 

 

 

 

 

 

 New Hampshire- (6) 

 

 

 

 

 

 New Jersey- (4) 

 

 

 

 

 

 New Mexico- (10) 

 

 

 

 

 

 North Carolina- (55) 

 

 

 

 

 

 North Dakota- (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Ohio- (35) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Oklahoma- (12) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Oregon- (35) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pennsylvania- (40) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Rhode Island- (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 South Carolina- (31) 

 

 

 

 

 

 South Dakota- (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Tennessee- (95) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Texas- (74) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Utah- (9) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Vermont- (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Virgin Islands- (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Virginia- (35) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Washington- (114) 

 

 

 

 

 

 West Virginia- (10) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Wisconsin- (19) 

 

 

 

 

 

 Wyoming- (10) 

 

 

 

 

 

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

PM Provider Customer Service Part B Workload (Number of Providers by State)  

Nebraska Providers- (6792) 

 

 

 

 

 

Kansas Providers- (9732) 

 

 

 

 

 

Iowa Providers- (11,001) 

 

 

 

 

 

Missouri Providers- (19,837) 

 

 

 

 

 

Telephone 

                   266,758 

                    266,758 

                       266,758 

                             266,758 

                   266,758 

IVR 

                   294,158 

                    294,158 

                       294,158 

                             294,158 

                   294,158 

Written Inquiries 

                       7,012 

                        7,012 

                           7,012 

                                  7,012 

                       7,012 

Internet 

               2,551,781 

                 2,551,781 

                    2,551,781 

                          2,551,781 

               2,551,781 

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Provider Reimbursement and Audit  

Facilities Population by Type 

 

 

 

 

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Note: The Hospital and Other Freestanding Facilities counts provided below are for informational purposes to be used in pricing the required workload identified at the bottom of this section.  

 

Hospitals 

 

 

 

 

 

Acute 

                          862 

                            862 

                               862 

                                     862 

                          862 

CAH 

                          320 

                            320 

                               320 

                                     320 

                          320 

LTC 

                          403 

                            403 

                               403 

                                     403 

                          403 

Rehab 

                             39 

                              39 

                                 39 

                                       39 

                             39 

Psych 

                          111 

                            111 

                               111 

                                     111 

                          111 

Child 

                               9 

                                9 

                                   9 

                                          9 

                               9 

Total Hospitals 

                       1,744 

                        1,744 

                           1,744 

                                  1,744 

                       1,744 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Other Freestanding Facilities 

 

 

 

 

 

SNF 

                       2,604 

                        2,604 

                           2,604 

                                  2,604 

                       2,604 

RHC 

                             14 

                              14 

                                 14 

                                       14 

                             14 

CORF 

                             14 

                              14 

                                 14 

                                       14 

                             14 

ESRD 

                             80 

                              80 

                                 80 

                                       80 

                             80 

OPT 

                          290 

                            290 

                               290 

                                     290 

                          290 

CMHC 

                             36 

                              36 

                                 36 

                                       36 

                             36 

 Total Other Facilities 

                       3,038 

                        3,038 

                           3,038 

                                  3,038 

                       3,038 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Hospitals and Other Facilities 

                       4,782 

                        4,782 

                           4,782 

                                  4,782 

                       4,782 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cost Report Acceptances 

                       2,581 

                        3,773 

                           3,773 

                                  3,773 

                       3,773 

 Tentative Settlements 

                       1,241 

                        1,747 

                           1,747 

                                  1,747 

                       1,747 

 Desk Reviews 

                       1,948 

                        2,814 

                           2,814 

                                  2,814 

                       2,814 

 Audits

                          152 

                            211 

                               211 

                                     211 

                          211 

 Reopenings  

                          459 

                            640 

                               640 

                                     640 

                          640 

 Interim Rate Reviews 

                       5,657 

                        8,589 

                           8,589 

                                  8,589 

                       8,589 

 Cost Report Settlements 

                       3,360 

                        4,766 

                           4,766 

                                  4,766 

                       4,766 

 Cost Report Appeals 

                          236 

                            296 

                               296 

                                     296 

                          296 

 Wage Index Reviews 

                          355 

                            494 

                               494 

                                     494 

                          494 

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

 Provider Enrollment Part A Workload  

Initial Applications  

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                          161 

                            268 

                               268 

                                     268 

                          268 

 Web  

                          129 

                            167 

                               167 

                                     167 

                          167 

Changes of Information & CHOWS 

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                       1,012 

                        1,550 

                           1,550 

                                  1,550 

                       1,550 

 Web  

10

13

13

13

13

Revalidations 

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                          382 

                            629 

                               629 

                                     629 

                          629 

 Web  

                               2 

                                3 

                                   3 

                                          3 

                               3 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Provider Enrollment Part B Workload 

 Initial Applications  

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                     7,500 

                      14,974 

                         14,974 

                                14,974 

                     14,974 

 Web  

                          890 

                        1,644 

                           1,644 

                                  1,644 

                       1,644 

 Changes of Information 

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                       3,123 

                        5,172 

                           5,172 

                                  5,172 

                       5,172 

 Web  

                          215 

                            397 

                               397 

                                     397 

                          397 

 Reassignments 

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                       7,185 

                      13,268 

                         13,268 

                                13,268 

                     13,268 

 Web  

                          602 

                        1,112 

                           1,112 

                                  1,112 

                       1,112 

 Revalidations 

 

 

 

 

 

 Paper 

                          454 

                            839 

                               839 

                                     839 

                          839 

 Web  

                             17 

                              32 

                                 32 

                                       32 

                             32 

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 PM Provider Inquiries - Part A Workload  

 Telephone 

              175,930 

               175,930 

                  175,930 

                       175,930 

              175,930 

 Written Inquiries 

                       2,540 

                        2,540 

                           2,540 

                                  2,540 

                       2,540 

 Inquiries Backlog - Written Correspondence Pending 

                             74 

 

 

 

 

 Congressionals - Part A  

                             25 

                              37 

                                 37 

                                       37 

                             37 

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

PM Provider Inquiries - Part B Workload  

 Telephone 

              260,458 

               520,916 

                  520,916 

                       520,916 

              520,916 

 Written Inquiries 

                       2,897 

                        5,794 

                           5,794 

                                  5,794 

                       5,794 

 Inquiries Backlog - Written Correspondence Pending 

                          297 

 

 

 

 

 Congressionals - Part B  

                             62 

                            115 

                               115 

                                     115 

                          115 

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part A   

Telephone Inquiries (completed calls) 

                             57 

                            109 

                               109 

                                     109 

                          109 

 Written Inquiries 

                          122 

                            122 

                               122 

                                     122 

                          122 

 Inquiries Backlog - Written Correspondence Pending 

10 

 

 

 

 

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

PM Provider Inquiries - PRRS Part B   

Telephone Inquiries (completed calls) 

                             62 

                            115 

                               115 

                                     115 

                          115 

Written Inquiries 

                          166 

                            306 

                               306 

                                     306 

                          306 

Inquiries Backlog - Written Correspondence Pending 

                               10 

 

 

 

 

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

Provider Oversight Part A Workload  

IRF Provider Billing Records Reviews 

                     478 

                      918 

                        918 

                             918 

                     918 

CORF Provider Billing Records Reviews 

1 

2 

2 

2 

2 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

PM Non-MSP Overpayment Demand Letters Sent 

 Part A Demands 

                10,883 

                 15,042 

                    15,839 

                         16,773 

                17,696 

 Part B Demands 

              151,391 

               271,421 

                  286,078 

                       303,529 

              320,526 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part A 

 Non-MSP collections   

 

 

 

 

 

 Non-MSP collections-voluntary refunds 

                     133 

                      179 

                        189 

                             200 

                     211 

 Non-MSP collections-solicited checks 

                  2,476 

                   3,344 

                     3,521 

                           3,729 

                  3,934 

 Non-MSP collections-debt collection and referral 

                        8 

                        11 

                          11 

                               12 

                       12 

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

PM Non-MSP overpayments Part B   

Non-MSP collections - voluntary refunds  

                16,005 

                 28,694 

                    30,244 

                         32,089 

                33,886 

Non-MSP collections - solicited checks 

                  8,072 

                 14,473 

                    15,254 

                         16,185 

                17,091 

Non-MSP collections - debt collection and referral 

                     480 

                      861 

                        908 

                             963 

                  1,017 

 Non-MSP collections ---- TOTAL of all above 

                24,557

                 44,028

                    46,406

                         49,237 

                51,994 



MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload – (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f) 





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload (Workload is provided in a separate chart that follows at L.10.f)  





 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  



 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  



 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  



 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  



 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  



 MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload  

Claims Edits Resolved / "I" Records Resolved 

                78,753 

               131,802 

                  138,787 

                       146,975 

              155,059 

Congressional Hearings and Appeal Requests 

0 

0                          

0 

0 

0 

On-Site Hospital Reviews/Audits (see breakout in L.10.t) 

                       98 

                      138 

                        138 

                             138 

                     138 

Followup with COBC 

                        2 

                         3 

                            4 

                                 4 

                        4 

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

MIP MSP Prepay Part B Workload  

 Claims Edits Resolved / "I" Records Resolved 

              196,746 

               352,735 

                  371,783 

                       394,462 

              416,552 

 Congressional Hearings and Appeal Requests 

                       7   

                        12   

                          12   

12 

12 

 Followup with COBC 

                     484 

                      868 

                        915 

                             971 

                  1,025 

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

MIP Benefit Integrity PSC/ZPIC Support  - Part A  

 PSC/ZPIC Support Requests-Non Law Enforcement 

                       39 

                        58 

                          60 

                               64 

                       68 

 PSC/ZPIC Support Requests- Law Enforcement 

20 

29

30 

32 

34 

 # of PSC/ZPIC Support Services Provided (miscellaneous type activities such as meeting, training, or any other special requests). 

                       18 

                        35 

                          38 

                               40 

                       41 

 Number of edits installed at the request of the PSC/ZPIC 

 

 

 

 

 

 Number of Overpayment recoupment actions received from the PSC/ZPIC 

                       15 

                        22 

                          35 

                               25 

                       26 

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 MIP Benefit Integrity PSC Support  - Part B  

 PSC Support Requests-Non Law Enforcement 

                       58 

                      103 

                        109 

                             116 

                     122 

 PSC Support Requests- Law Enforcement 

                       18

                        40 

46                           

50                               

                       58

# of PSC Support Services Provided For the PSC/ZPIC workload "# of PSC Support Services Provided" (miscellaneous type activities such as meetings , training , or any other special requests).     

                       16 

                        29 

                          31 

                               32 

                       34 

 Number of edits installed at the request of the PSC/ZPIC 

                        2 

                         3 

                            4 

                                 4 

                        4 

 Number of Overpayment recoupment actions received from the PSC/ZPIC 

                       25 

                        45 

                          48 

                               51 

                       53 

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part A Workload   

 Nebraska Providers -(317) 

                     317 

                      317 

                        317 

                             317 

                     317 

 Kansas Providers- (657) 

                     657 

                      657 

                        657 

                             657 

                     657 

 Iowa Providers- (824) 

                     824 

                      824 

                        824 

                             824 

                     824 

 Missouri Providers- (623) 

                     623 

                      623 

                        623 

                             623 

                     623 

 Part A WPS Legacy providers- (4,782) 

                  4,782 

                   4,782 

                     4,782 

                           4,782 

                  4,782 

 Total Providers 

                  7,203 

                   7,203 

                     7,203 

                           7,203 

                  7,203 

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 MIP Provider Customer Service Part B Workload   

 Nebraska Providers 

                       6,792 

                        6,792 

                           6,792 

                                  6,792 

                       6,792 

 Kansas Providers 

                       9,732 

                        9,732 

                           9,732 

                                  9,732 

                       9,732 

 Iowa Providers 

                     11,001 

                      11,001 

                         11,001 

                                11,001 

                     11,001 

 Missouri Providers 

                     19,837 

                      19,837 

                         19,837 

                                19,837 

                     19,837 

 Total Providers 

                     47,362 

                      47,362 

                         47,362 

                               47,362 

                     47,362 

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 MIP MSP Postpay Part A  

 Provider/Supplier Duplicate Primary Payments 

3 

4

4

4

5

 General MSP Inquiries Resolved (related to debt) 

                     503 

                      679 

                        715 

                             758 

                     799 

 Debt Collection and Referrals 

0 

                         1 

                            1 

                                 1 

                        1 

 General MSP Inquiries Resolved (Not related to debt)  

                  2,536 

                   3,430 

                     3,612 

                           3,825 

                  4,036 

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 MIP MSP Postpay Part B   

 Provider/Supplier Duplicate Primary Payments (voluntary refunds, checks sent to ECRS, demands and solicited refunds) 

                19,875 

                 29,450 

                    31,040 

                         32,933 

                34,778 

 General MSP Inquiries Resolved (related to debt) 

                       24 

                        35 

                          37 

                               40 

                       42 

 Debt Collection and Referrals 

                       31 

                        46 

                          48 

                               51 

                       54 

 General MSP Inquiries Resolved (Not related to debt) 

                  3,922 

                   5,812 

                     6,125 

                           6,499 

                  6,863 

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

RAC Adjustments Part A (Claims) - SLIN 000XAG

 Complex 

12,806 

19,200

19,200

19,200

19,200

 Automated 

                32,016 

48,000

48,000

48,000

48,000

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 RAC Adjustments Part B (Claims) - SLIN 000XAH  

 Automated & Complex 

                67,200 

100,800

100,800

100,800

100,800



MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part A Workload  

 Routine Manual Medical Reviews 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

 Existing LCDs Revised 

                       74 

                      112 

                        112 

                             112 

                     112 

 New LCDs Developed 

                       32 

                        59 

                          59 

                               59 

                       59 

 Complex Probe Reviews (Prepay and Postpay) 

                  1,615 

                   2,489 

                     2,489 

                           2,489 

                  2,489 

 Prepay Complex Reviews 

                  6,184 

                 12,368 

                    12,368 

                         12,368 

                12,368 

 Postpay Complex Reviews 

 

 

 

 

 

 Medical Review Reopenings 

                     802 

                   1,275 

                     1,275 

                           1,275 

                  1,275 

 Medical Review Claims Overturned on First Level Appeal 

249 

478

478

478

478

 Medical Review Data Requests 

                  1,043 

                   1,348 

                     1,348 

                           1,348 

                  1,348 

 Medical Review Limited Education 

                     147 

                      261 

                        261 

                             261 

                     261 

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

MIP Medical Review (MR) Part B Workload  

 Routine Manual Medical Reviews 

                   164,403 

                    303,607 

                       303,607 

                             303,607 

                   303,607 

 Existing LCDs Revised 

                             31 

                              57 

                                 57 

                                       57 

                             57 

 New LCDs Developed 

                             13 

                              24 

                                 24 

                                       24 

                             24 

 Complex Probe Reviews (Prepay and Postpay) 

                  2,014 

                   3,719 

                     3,719 

                           3,719 

                  3,719 

 Prepay Complex Reviews 

                20,309 

                 37,505 

                    37,505 

                         37,505 

                37,505 

 Postpay Complex Reviews 

                     709 

                   1,310 

                     1,310 

                           1,310 

                  1,310 

 Medical Review Reopenings 

                          274 

                            506 

                               506 

                                     506 

                          506 

 MR claims Overturned on First Level Appeal 

                     11,141 

                      20,575 

                         20,575 

                                20,575 

                     20,575 

 Medical Review Data Requests 

                          145 

                            268 

                               268 

                                     268 

                          268 

 Medical Review Limited Education 

                          209 

                            386 

                               386 

                                     386 

                          386 



DRAFT CR 

estimated workload

DRAFT CR 

estimated workload

DRAFT CR 

estimated workload

Period of Performance

% increase from prior year

CRs

Base Year (500 annually, adjusted for 8 months)



333

Option Year 1

5%

525

Option Year 2

5%

551

Option Year 3

5%

579

Option Year 4

5%

608



Finalized issued CRs requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload

Finalized issued CRs requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload

Finalized issued CRs requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload

Period of Performance

% increase from prior year

CRs

Base Year (308 annually, adjusted for 8 months)



205

Option Year 1

5%

323

Option Year 2

5%

340

Option Year 3

5%

357

Option Year 4

5%

374



Finalized issued CRs NOT requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload



Finalized issued CRs NOT requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload



Finalized issued CRs NOT requiring shared system changes 

estimated workload



Period of Performance

% increase from prior year

CRs

Base Year (132 annually, adjusted for 8 months)



88

Option Year 1

5%

139

Option Year 2

5%

146

Option Year 3

5%

153

Option Year 4

5%

160



Joint Signature Memorandums / Technical Direction Letters 

estimated workload

Joint Signature Memorandums / Technical Direction Letters 

estimated workload

Period of Performance

CRs

Base Year (500 annually, adjusted for 8 months)

333

Option Year 1

500

Option Year 2

500

Option Year 3

500

Option Year 4

500



Location of files

Part A legacy records

J5 A/B MAC records

Subtotals

Herrin, IL

160,000

5,000

165,000

Minneapolis, MN

33,400

28,100

61,500

Madison, WI

17,500

1,200

18,700

Mt Vernon, IL

4,100

0

4,100

Blair, NE

95,300

9,000

104,300

Topeka, KS



53,700

53,700

Hutchinson, KS



1,500

1,500

Maumelle, AR



29,100

29,100

St. Louis, MO



11,600

11,600

Des Moines, IA



1,100

1,100

TOTAL – 

CUBIC FEET



310,300



140,300



450,600



C.5.6

Local Coverage Determinations

C.5.11.3

Cost Reporting and Reimbursement Payment Policy

C.5.12

Medical Review

C.5.14.5

Medicare Secondary Payer Hospital Audits

C.5.23.1



Post-award Meeting



MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

Part A Legacy Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

Part A Legacy Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

Part A Legacy Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

STATE

Legacy Hospital Facilities

MSP Hospital Audits to be conducted

ALABAMA

15

1

ALASKA

4

1

ARIZONA

25

2

ARKANSAS

19

2

CALIFORNIA

24

2

COLORADO

7

1

FLORIDA

64

6

GEORGIA

32

3

ILLINOIS

39

3

INDIANA

12

1

KENTUCKY                 

10

1

LOUISIANA

58

5

MASSACHUSETTS            

26

2

MICHIGAN

15

1

MINNESOTA

1

1

MISSISSIPPI

15

2

IDAHO

5

1

ILLINOIS

39

3

NEW HAMPSHIRE            

2

1

NEW JERSEY

4

1

NEVADA

6

1

NEW MEXICO

5

1

NORTH CAROLINA           

15

2

NORTH DAKOTA

2

1

OHIO                     

18

2

OKLAHOMA

5

1

OREGON

5

1

PENNSYLVANIA

28

2

SOUTH CAROLINA           

14

1

SOUTH DAKOTA

1

1

TENNESSEE

23

2

TEXAS

37

3

VIRGINIA                 

8

1

WASHINGTON

12

1

WEST VIRGINIA            

5

1

WISCONSIN

5

1

WYOMING

5

1

TOTAL Legacy part A hospital review 12-month workload

TOTAL Legacy part A hospital review 12-month workload

63



MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

Jurisdiction 5 States Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

Jurisdiction 5 States Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

Jurisdiction 5 States

MSP Hospital Audits to be conducted

Iowa

20

Kansas

20

Missouri

10

Nebraska

15

TOTAL J5 States

75



MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

SUMMARY OF LEGACY and JURISDICTION 5 States Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

MIP MSP Prepay Part A Workload onsite Acute and CAH Hospital Reviews/Audits

SUMMARY OF LEGACY and JURISDICTION 5 States Workload 

to be conducted for each full 12-month period

Workload

MSP Hospital Audits to be conducted

LEGACY

63

Current J5

75

TOTAL – both

138



TAB A

Table of Contents

Table of Contents

Table of Contents



TAB A.1          

Acronym Dictionary

Acronym Dictionary

TAB B

Past Performance

Past Performance

Past Performance

TAB C

   Technical Understanding

   Technical Understanding

   Technical Understanding



TAB C.1

Program Management

Program Management



TAB C.2    

Personnel

Personnel





Tab C.2.1

Staffing Plan (includes AttachmentsJ-29 and 30)





Tab C.2.2

Position Descriptions by Function





Tab C.2.3

Site Description





Tab C.2.4

Key Personnel



TAB C.3

Innovations

Innovations



TAB C.4

Medical Review Strategy

Medical Review Strategy



TAB C.5

 Provider Customer Service Program Strategy

 Provider Customer Service Program Strategy



TAB C.6

Jurisdiction Implementation Project Management Plan

Jurisdiction Implementation Project Management Plan

TAB D

Attestations

Attestations

Attestations



Tab D.1

Information Security Attestation (Attachment J-21)

Information Security Attestation (Attachment J-21)



Tab D.2

Corporate Experience Attestation (Attachment J-22)

Corporate Experience Attestation (Attachment J-22)



Tab D.3

Compliance Attestation (Attachment J-23)

Compliance Attestation (Attachment J-23)





TAB A



Cost Templates, Attachments J-10 through J-17 

Note: Cost Template instructions included at attachment J-09 





TAB A



Table of Contents 

TAB A.1      Acronym Dictionary





Table of Contents 

TAB A.1      Acronym Dictionary







TAB B

Proposal Checklist



Proposal Checklist







TAB C

Contract Form and Representation and Certifications



Contract Form and Representation and Certifications







TAB D

Indirect Cost Rate Agreement and Rate History



Indirect Cost Rate Agreement and Rate History







TAB E

Organization Structure



Organization Structure







TAB F

Other Narrative Information

Other Narrative Information







TAB F.1

Business Proposal Assumptions

Business Proposal Assumptions



TAB F.2

Uncompensated Overtime

Uncompensated Overtime



TAB F.3

Total Compensation Plan



Total Compensation Plan



TAB G

Subcontracts



Subcontracts







TAB H

Equipment and Property



Equipment and Property







TAB I	

Disclosure Statement



Disclosure Statement







TAB J

Adequate Accounting and Estimating Systems



Adequate Accounting and Estimating Systems







TAB K

Service Contract Act



Service Contract Act







TAB L	

Responsibility Determination



Responsibility Determination







TAB M

Small Business Subcontracting

Small Business Subcontracting







TAB A

Organizational Conflict of Interest

TAB B

Conflict of Interest



(    (1)

Unequal Access to Information

Consists of situations in which a firm has access to nonpublic information as part of its performance of a government contract and where that information may provide the firm a competitive advantage in a later competition for a government contract.  § FAR 9.505-4.  In these “unequal access to information” cases, the concern is limited to the risk of the firm gaining a competitive advantage; there is no issue of bias.  

(2)

Biased Ground Rules

Consists of situations in which a firm, as part of its performance of a government contract, has in some sense set the ground rules for another government contract by, for example, writing the statement of work or the specifications.  In theses “biased ground rules” cases, the primary concern is that the firm could skew the competition, whether intentionally or not, in favor of itself. § FAR 9.505-1, 9.505-2.  These situations may also involve a concern that the firm by virtue of its special knowledge of the agency’s future requirements would have an unfair advantage in the competition for those requirements.  

(3)

Impaired Objectivity

Consists of situations where a firm has conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment including but not limited to where a firm’s work under one government contract could entail evaluating itself, either through an assessment of performance under another contract or an evaluation of proposals.  § FAR 9.505-3.  In theses “impaired objectivity” cases, the concern is that the firm’s ability to render impartial advice to the government could be or appear to be undermined. 



A/B MACs:

Medicare administrative contractors (MACs) under section 1874A of the Social Security Act that administer claims for Medicare Part A and Part B benefits (with the exception of DMEPOS claims as defined at 42 CFR 421.210)  DME MACs are not included in this definition.



Affiliates:

This term shall have the meaning provided at FAR 9.403.  Affiliates shall include contractor teaming arrangements under FAR 9.601(1).  Notwithstanding FAR 9.403, “affiliates” in this clause does not include subcontractors.



National A/B Medicare Workload:



The percentages as set forth at 7(a) and (b) herein.

Prime Contract; Prime Contractor:

These terms shall have the meaning provided at FAR 3.502-1.



Protest:

This term shall have the meaning provided at FAR 33.101 and included all protests whether to the agency, the GAO, or Court of Federal Claims.



A/B MAC Jurisdiction

Percentage of National A/B Workload

Jurisdiction 1

8.9%

 Jurisdiction 3

3.0%

Jurisdiction 4

9.8%

Jurisdiction 5

4.6%

Jurisdiction 6

8.1%

Jurisdiction 8

5.8%

Jurisdiction 9

8.2%

Jurisdiction 10

7.3%

Jurisdiction 11

8.9%

Jurisdiction 12

10.9%

Jurisdiction 13

8.1%

Jurisdiction 14

4.2%

Jurisdiction 15

6.0%



New Jurisdiction Designation

Former Jurisdiction Designation(s)

Percentage of National Part A & Part B Workload

Estimated Solicitation Release Date Range for Next Round of MAC Procurements

E

1

8.9%

Aug 2011 - Jan 2012

F

2 & 3

5.8%

Released Oct 2010

G

5 & 6

12.7%

September 2015

H

4 & 7

13.2%

Released Mar 2011  

I

8 & 15

11.8%

Feb - Jul 2014

J

10

7.3%

Aug 2012 - Jan 2013

K

13 & 14

12.3%

Oct 2011 - Mar 2012

L

12

10.9%

Sep 2011 - Mar 2012

M

11

8.9%

Dec 2013 - May 2014

N

9

8.2%

Apr 2012 - Sep 2012SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

RATING

PAGE OF PAGES

1
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED

144

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

RFP-CMS-2011-0014
7. ISSUED BY CODE

SEALED BID (IFB) X NEGOTIATED (RFP)

06/23/2011

MACG - DWMAC

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

CMS,OAGM,MACG,DWMAC 7500 SECURITY BLVD., MS: C2-21-15 BALTIMORE MD 21244-1850

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and depository located in

8 C2-21-15

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the until

1100 ES
(Hour)

local time

08/03/2011
(Date)

CAUTION: LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.
10. FOR INFORMATION CALL:

A. NAME AREA CODE

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) NUMBER EXT.

C. E-MAIL ADDRESS

Christina Honey
DESCRIPTION

410
PAGE(S) (X)

786-5791
SEC. DESCRIPTION

Christina.Honey@cms.hhs.g ov
PAGE(S)

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
(X) SEC.

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2 10 11 12 13 16 29

X X

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

55 68 70 78 136

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X X X

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

L M

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within ______________ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232.8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR CODE FACILITY 16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print) AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) CALENDAR DAYS (%)

15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20. AMOUNT

21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7) ) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c) ( CODE )

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

Christina Honey
(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable
STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

