
UNIT:  CAREER DEVELOPMENT
Line Item  Description QTY UNIT BPA UNIT PRICE DISCOUNTS EXTENDED PRICE
452 MSS B2314 Treva Smith
1.0 L Desk Modular, overhead cabinet, return. (Metal Frame with Fabric covered Segments). 6.0 ea
2.0 misc. hardware, panels, connectors  6.0 ea
3.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  7.0 ea
4.0 Admin/Reception Desk  1.0 ea
5.0   Laminate Storage Cabinet w. 2 doors (36"x 24"x 66") 1.0 ea
6.0 Lateral File Cabinets (Locking) 1.0 ea
7.0 Bookcase (min 3-shelf) 1.0 ea
INSTALLATION/STAGING/STORAGE $
TOTAL QUOTE $
Match existing furniture in terms of color, style and appearance
Bld. 2314 - 1351 Graeber St. March ARB, CA 92518
UNIT:  FORCE MANAGEMENT (Room 123 & 123A-E)
Line Item Part Number - size  Description QTY U/I BPA UNIT PRICE DISCOUNTS EXTENDED PRICE
452 MSS B2314 Treva Smith
1.0 Force Mgmt Rm 123: ADMIN-LEVEL OFFICE PACKAGE L Desk Single Pedestal w/return. Admin desk with single pedestal 3.0 EA
2.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  3.0 EA
3.0 Lateral File Cabinets (Locking) 3.0 EA
4.0 Bookcase, Tall, 5-shelves 3.0 EA
5.0 Laminate Storage Cabinet w/2 doors 1.0 EA
sub-total:
6.0 Rm 123A: 4 Workstation L Desk Modular, overhead cabinet, return. (Metal Frame with Fabric covered Segments). 4.0 EA
7.0 misc. hardware, panels, connectors  4.0 EA
8.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  3.0 EA
9.0   Laminate Storage Cabinet w. 2 doors (36"x 24"x 66") 1.0 EA
sub-total:
10.0 Force Mgmt Rm 123B: ADMIN-LEVEL OFFICE PKG 2 Work Stations L Desk Single Pedestal w/return. Admin desk with single pedestal 2.0 EA
11.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  2.0 EA
12.0 Lateral File Cabinets (Locking) 2.0 EA
13.0 Bookcase, Tall, 5-shelves 2.0 EA
14.0 Laminate Storage Cabinet w/2 doors 1.0 EA
sub-total:
15.0 Force Mgmt Rm 123C&D: ADMIN-LEVEL OFFICE PKG 2 Work Stations L Desk Single Pedestal w/return. Admin desk with single pedestal 2.0 EA
16.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  2.0 EA
17.0 Lateral File Cabinets (Locking) 2.0 EA
18.0 Bookcase, Tall, 5-shelves 2.0 EA
sub-total:
19.0 Force Mgmt Rm 123E: ADMIN-LEVEL OFFICE PKG 2 Work Stations L Desk Single Pedestal w/return. Admin desk with single pedestal 2.0 EA
20.0 2-Drawer Pedestal  2.0 EA
21.0 Lateral File Cabinets (Locking) 2.0 EA
22.0 Bookcase, Tall, 5-shelves 2.0 EA
INSTALLATION/STAGING/STORAGE $
TOTAL QUOTE $
Match existing furniture in terms of color, style and appearance
Bld. 2314 - 1351 Graeber St. March ARB, CA 92518
UNIT:  Training Room and Conference Room Tables
Line Item  Description QTY U/I BPA UNIT PRICE DISCOUNTS EXTENDED PRICE
452 MSS B2314 Treva Smith
1.0 Classroom/Utility table, 30 x 60 x 29H, Laminate Top 15.0 EA
These tables are for the Training Room 109.  Contractor must measure room and recommend solution.
Requirement is for durable, professional looking tables.  No plastic or outdoor materials.
2.0 Laminate top modular conference table (minimum 144L x 48W x  28H) 1.0 EA
INSTALLATION/STAGING/STORAGE $
TOTAL QUOTE $
This conference room table is for Room 106.  Contractor must measure room and recommend solution.
Requirement is for durable, professional looking tables.  No plastic or outdoor materials.
Match existing furniture in terms of color, style and appearance
Bld. 2314 - 1351 Graeber St. March ARB, CA 92518
UNIT:  RETIREE AFFAIRS OFFICE 8 Chairs
Line Item U/I  Description QTY BPA UNIT PRICE DISCOUNTS EXTENDED PRICE
452 MSS B2314 Treva Smith
1.0 EA Manager's chair w/ergonomic adjustments 4.0
2.0 EA Office Guest Chair with arms 4.0
INSTALLATION/STAGING/STORAGE $
TOTAL QUOTE $
Match existing furniture in terms of color, style and appearance
Bld. 2314 - 1351 Graeber St. March ARB, CA 92518
Line Item Unit of Issue PWS Para  Description QTY Milestone Payment
1.0 Yr 2.2 Base Year - Annual Recurring Maintenance on Existing Virtual Reality Systems 10 per yr
2.0 EA 2.1.2 Base Year - Virtual Iraq Content Enhancements  10.0
3.0 EA 2.1.2 Base Year - Anxiety or Substance Abuse / Addiction Software Content Enhancements 10.0
4.0 EA 2.2.5 Relocate one Virtual Reality Site (FFP) includes packing, shipping, installation, testing, training new personnel 1.0
5.0 EA 2.3.1 Initial Training Completion 1.0
6.0 EA 2.3.3 Other Training 1.0
7.0 Yr 2.3.2 & 2.3 .4  Training
Total Base Year
8.0 Yr 2.2.1 Option Year One  - Annual Recurring Maintenance on Existing Virtual Reality Systems 10 per yr
9.0 EA 2.1.1 One Turnkey Virtual Reality System with latest software enhancements installed 1.0
10.0 EA 2.1.2 Option Year One - Virtual Iraq Content Enhancements  10.0
11.0 EA 2.1.2 Option Year One - Anxiety or Substance Abuse / Addiction Software Content Enhancements 10.0
12.0 EA 2.2.5 Option Year One - Relocate one Virtual Reality Site (FFP) includes packing, shipping, installation, testing, training new personnel 1.0
13.0 EA 2.3.3 Other Training 1.0
14.0 Yr 2.3.2 & 2.3 .4  Training
Total Option Year 1
15.0 Yr 2.2.1 Option Year Two  - Annual Recurring Maintenance on Existing Virtual Reality Systems 11 per yr
16.0 EA 2.1.2 Option Year Two - Virtual Iraq Content Enhancements  11.0
17.0 EA 2.1.2 Option Year Two - Anxiety or Substance Abuse / Addiction Software Content Enhancements 11.0
18.0 EA 2.2.5 Option Year Two - Relocate one Virtual Reality Site (FFP) includes packing, shipping, installation, testing, training new personnel 1.0
19.0 EA 2.3.3 Other Training 1.0
20.0 Yr 2.3.2 & 2.3 .4  Training
Total Option Year 2














PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

AND INSTRUCTIONS










PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE INSTRUCTIONS









The information obtained from this questionnaire will be used to evaluate the past and present performance of offerors submitting a quote in response to the solicitation for. AIR FORCE MEDICAL SUPPORT AGENCY for Telemental Health Virtual Reality Clinical Training, Equipment & Sustainment.  The information you provide will be instrumental in allowing the Government to evaluate how well the contractor performed under your contract(s).



a.	Please complete all sections of the attached questionnaire. Include your name and title, organizational address, e-mail address, telephone 	and fax number.

b.	Include the contractor’s name and address, the title and/or description of the type of work performed, the award number, the value of the 	contract (including options), the award and completion date of the project and the type of award/solicitation.

c.	Use the rating scale found on the bottom left corner of the questionnaire to rate each performance element.

d.	Comments are encouraged and would be appreciated. The last page may be used if additional space is needed for comments. 

	Clear handwritten 	responses are sufficient.

e.	Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov as shown at the bottom right corner of the questionnaire NLT the closing date of the RFQ. 



Thank you for your time and participation. 












Additional Comments:




Technical POC Name & Title



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



Organizational Address



TEL NO.:  	FAX:   

E-MAIL:  

CONTRACTOR’S NAME & ADDRESS



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



TITLE OR DESCRIPTON OF REQUIREMENT:



CONTRACT TYPE:	 FIXED PRICE	        COST +  FEE

 COMPETITIVE	 NON-COMPETITIVE      SET-ASIDE

 T&M     	 NEGOTIATED

CONTRACT AND TASK ORDER NUMBERS:



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER VALUE AND FUNDING (INCL OPTIONS):



CONTRACT/TASK ORDER PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



PAST PERFORMANCE ELEMENT

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

COMMENTS

PAST PERFORMANCE ELEMENT

1

2

3

4

5

6

NA

COMMENTS

1.	Contractor demonstrated a thorough understanding of 	technical requirements of the contract/task.















     

2.	Contractor anticipated/identified and resolved problems 	effectively and timely.















     

3.	Contractor managed and directed resources (i.e. personnel, 	subcontractors, equipment, etc.) effectively.















     

4.	Contractor provided the necessary skilled personnel to 	perform the required work.















     

5.	Contractor retained the necessary skilled personnel and 	maintained a low turnover rate.















     

6.	Contractor met scheduled contract delivery dates.















     

7.	Contractor provided accurate, complete and high quality 	deliverables and quality services.















     

8.	Contractor complied with the terms of the contract, stayed within total costs, and monitored funds appropriately.















     

9. I would hire this contractor again.















     



1

0 – 25% of the time

Strongly Disagree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

2

26 – 40% of the time

Disagree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

3

41 – 55% of the time

Somewhat Disagree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

4

56 – 70% of the time

Somewhat Agree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

5

71 – 85% of the time

Agree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

6

86 – 100% of the time

Strongly Agree

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov

NA



No Knowledge of This Element

Please e-mail your response to Fred Hersom at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to Sheri.Torres at sheri.torres@gsa.gov















Performance Based Statement of Work









AIR FORCE MEDICAL SUPPORT AGENCY 



FOR



Telemental Health Virtual Reality Clinical Training, Equipment & Sustainment















August 12, 2011




TABLE OF CONTENTS  

											



SECTION		   		        		       		PAGE



   	1.0	DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES				3

	    	1.1	Background		 				3

    	   	1.2	Scope							3

   	2.0	SUMMARY OF REQUIREMENTS				4

2.1  Turnkey Virtual Reality System 				

2.2  Equipment Maintenance And Sustainment Of Existing Equipment

2.3  Training

    	3.0	GENERAL PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS		10

	4.0	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY		11

    	5.0	TRAVEL							11

	6.0	PROJECT KICK-OFF MEETING				11

	7.0	BASE AND OPTION YEARS – POP			12

	8.0	DELIVERABLES						13

	9.0	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY				15

    	10.0	QUALITY CONTROL PLAN				16

   	11.0	NON-PERSONAL SERVICES				16

   	12.0	CONTRACTOR IDENTIFICATION			17	

	13.0	 HOURS OF OPERATION					17

	14.0	MONTHLY PAYMENTS					17

	15.0	CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION				18

	16.0	TRANSITION							20

	17.0	RIGHTS IN DATA-GENERAL				20

	18.0 	APPENDICES 						25

	A. Acronyms							

	B. List of Existing Equipment

  	C.  List of Mandatory Reading

	D.  HIPAA Agreement						

	E. Non-Disclosure Agreement				

	F. Organizational Conflict of Interest			





























1.0    DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES 



1.1 Background



1.1.1  The Office of the Air Force Surgeon (AF/SG), Telehealth Branch (AF/SG6M) is acquiring recurring training support services and equipment sustainment for the development and delivery of Therapist Clinical Training for treatment of Wounded Warriors (WW) with Psychological Health (PH) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) using Virtual Reality (VR) Technology.  The functions performed as a part of this scope of work are generally not considered inherent government functions (FAR Subpart 7.503(c).



1.1.2  Virtual Reality Therapy, (VR) has its foundation in two well established forms of psychotherapy -- cognitive-behavioral therapy, (CBT) and exposure therapy or systematic desensitization.  However, unlike CBT and exposure therapy, which rely on the patient/subject’s ability to recall the incident that caused anxiety or trauma, VR creates a visual and audio scenario which closely resembles the original stimuli.  In doing so, the patient/subject is exposed to increasing levels of anxiety-producing scenarios while maintaining a sense of mastery while in the stimuli.



1.1.3  VR is a tool that can be used by trained clinicians for treatment or assessment of psychological and physical disorders.  Examples of clinical applications that use VR include treatment of anxiety disorders, to include phobias and post-traumatic stress disorder.  One of the advantages of VR is that it allows more control for the therapist in conducting exposure therapy.  Ideally, the exposure should be repeated so that the individual can confront the fear numerous times.  Gradually the individual should confront the fear in increasingly more anxiety-producing steps while managing the fear and anxiety.  Thus, there is a hierarchy of stimuli presented during the exposure leading to systematic desensitization of the original stimuli.



1.1.4  The requirements contained in this Performance Based Statement of Work (SOW) are needed to provide continued treatment for our Wounded Warriors returning from the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan.  Additionally, this SOW will address concurrent problems associated with PTSD, such as anxiety and substance use disorders.  This project is receiving attention and oversight from the highest levels including monthly congressional reviews of status.  The identification of sources that are readily prepared to meet the requirements is essential to getting timely treatment to beneficiaries across the military services.  



1.2  Scope



The contractor shall (1) deliver  turnkey VR systems (including hardware and software components), (2) provide recurring sustainment support to the already-deployed VR systems, and (3) provide  a course of instruction to therapists assigned to Air Force Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) that covers the history of VR and mental health applications with an emphasis on anxiety applications, and the use of Virtual Reality for treatment of Wounded Warriors (WW) with Psychological Health (PH), Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

2.0 SUMMARY OF REQUIREMENTS

2.1  TURNKEY VIRTUAL REALITY SYSTEMS:  During Option Year One, the contractor shall deliver one turnkey VR systems (including hardware and software components) as described below. 

2.1.1  Virtual Reality Specifications.  The following specifications are the minimum specifications which a vendor must meet to stand up a turn-key system. 

2.1.1.1  The Virtual Reality system must include two (2) PC-based computers connected via cable in controller-client relationship.  This connection allows real-time selection of multiple stimuli from a controlling machine and corresponding display on the client machine.

2.1.1.2  The patient visual display or head mounted device (HMD) should be provided through a low cost medium resolution (e.g. 800x600) multi-color, HMD that includes rotational tracking and audio capability.  Movement through the multiple VR worlds is accomplished via a commercial game pad device.

2.1.1.3  The system must have integrated control of a USB driven olfactory system to deliver olfactory stimulus under therapist control and provide vibro-tactile stimulus via a VR platform system that allows separate control of the strength of the stimulus. Audio stimulus must be delivered to the user from the therapist therefore a microphone and head phones are required.

2.1.1.4  A real-time, therapist driven control system must be available to enhance the flexibility of the system’s multiple scenarios for use in a 10-session prolonged exposure based therapeutic applications instead of a preprogrammed scenario driven selection of events.

2.1.1.5  Such a system must include documentation of open license run time access to scenarios, and possess efficacy data from prior clinical trials.  

2.1.1.6  A rubber rifle with a joystick for use in an urban environment.



2.1.1.7  Ability for therapist to monitor physiological response of patient to stimuli in the virtual environment.



2.1.1.8  PC-Based Station and interface for Therapist - 2 PC-based stations (1 GB RAM & 128 MD Direct X 9 - Compatible 3D Graphic Card) - one for Therapist applications & one for HMD/orientation tracker.



2.1.1.9  Scenarios include ability to re-create range of activities encountered in combat in raq, Afghanistan and Kuwait including HUMVEE's, Street Scenes, Medical/Police scenarios, Aftermath of Homicide Bombings in Civilian Settings, helicopters w/Medics and Wounded

Warriors.



2.1.1.10  Scenarios must be reconfigurable so that therapist can build new scenarios, such as smell, manipulating scenery, sounds, time-of-day, weather, etc.



2.1.1.11  System characters in scenarios shall be wearing realistic  military service-specific uniforms and equipment (Army & Air Force).



2.1.1.12  Scenarios shall include appropriate stimuli for culturally appropriate sounds, weapons effects and visuals, and have the ability to expand with time.



2.1.2  Sofware Enhancements



2.1.2.1  Contractor shall deliver, install, test and perform all hardware, software and training required to enable medical facility personnel to use latest enhancements to Virtual Iraq software on all systems



2.1.2.2  Contractor shall deliver, install, test and perform all hardware, software and training required to enable medical facility personnel to use latest enhancements to Anxiety or Substance Abuse software on all systems



2.2  EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND SUSTAINMENT OF EXISTING EQUIPMENT:  The contractor shall provide recurring hardware and software sustainment support for the ten (10) already-deployed VR systems and any new systems purchased under this contract. 



2.2.1  ANNUAL MAINTENANCE FOR EXISTING SYSTEMS:   The contractor shall include the cost of Annual (One Year) Equipment Maintenance for the existing 10 systems already deployed.   The contractor shall propose a separate price for the base period and each additional option year period.   There are 10 systems in the base period and Option Period One in need of maintenance support.  There are 11 systems in Option Period Two.  The government will provide funding for maintenance on an annual basis.   Initial Maintenance will commence at contract award (base year) for the 10 units already deployed.  



	2.2.2  VR systems  are  located at the following 10 sites listed below: 



779 MDG (formerly 89 MDG), Andrews AFB, Maryland

60 MDG, Travis AFB, California

59 MDW, Lackland AFB, Texas

88 MDG, Wright Patterson AFB, Ohio

3 MDG, Elmendorf AFB, Alaska

305 MDG, McGuire AFB, New Jersey

96 MDG, Eglin AFB, Florida

1 MDG, Langley AFB, Virginia

23 MDG, Moody AFB, Georgia

86 MDG, Ramstein AB, Germany



Medical Group (MDG) and Medical Wing (MDW)

 

	2.2.3  See Appendix B for Current Inventory List.  The current VR system platform consists of the following items:



2 Computers – Graphics Processor, sound card, monitor, etc, warranty

Vibration Platform, Audio Amplifier, Cabling

Head Mounted Device (HMD), cabling and accessories

Scent Delivery System (air compressor, scent machine, Scent cartridges)	

Virtual Iraq Software, support, and updates

Content Scenarios

Annual Maintenance which includes Software Updates such as Content Enhancements, Operating System Upgrades, Program Enhancements, or Security Updates if any

Onsite setup and orientation 

Systems and operations support, updates and training

Clinical and user manuals



2.2.4  The government anticipates that one VR System will be required to be moved per year.  The purpose of the move would be to transfer the VR System to a similar treatment center for increased patient use.  The contractor shall propose a FFP cost for the tear down, shipping, assemble, testing and initial (as per the meaning under paragraph 2.3) training of new personnel, 5-10, at the new location.  The sites will be determined by the customer.  Move will occur within the Continental United States (CONUS).  In the unlikely event that the government requires equipment moves to or from the Alaska or OCONUS sites, the Government will negotiate a fair and equitable adjustment with the vendor under the Changes provision of the contract.



2.2.5  The government may require an additional change of site locations should mission requirements and/or operational needs change.  In the event that the government is required to change the location of additional deployed system(s), the contracts “Changes” clause under FAR 52.212-4(c) will be used to set the scope of such work and establish a mutually agreed to equitable adjustment price based on the location and urgency of the move. If needed, this work will be of the same type and scope as described herein.  Change of location requirements could include tear down, shipping, assembly, testing, and training new personnel at the new location.   



2.3  TRAINING:  . 



2.3.1  INITIAL TRAINING:  An initial training schedule shall be accomplished within 120 days after contract award and shall include instruction for between 20-40  attendees trained at a central location (Madigan Army Medical Center or an East Coast location yet to be determined).  



2.3.1.1  The contractor shall provide a course of instruction to therapists assigned to Air Force Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) that covers the history of VR and mental health applications with an emphasis on anxiety applications, and the use of Virtual Reality for treatment of Wounded Warriors (WW) with Psychological Health (PH), Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).   A list of Required Reading is provided in Appendix C.  



2.3.1.2  Equipment Training. The contractor shall provide training on the set-up and use of all equipment and system operation following system installation.  Hands-on training shall be provided on the same day of installation to the therapists and other staff members identified by the government. 



2.3.1.3  VR Clinical Training. The contractor shall provide a course of instruction that will provide clinicians with an academic and practical experience that will enable participants to use Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy (VRE) using this VR system within their practices.  The contractor will leverage all training materials already developed and deployed on enterprise wide learning management systems. The Contractor shall provide all materials necessary for initial training beyond what is already available.  



2.3.1.4  The contractor shall present the rationale for VRE and indications/contradictions along with empirical Support and presentation of case study of active duty (VRE for PTSD).



2.3.1.5  The contractor shall present an overview of VRE protocol and provide associated questions and answers to participants.



2.3.1.6  The contractor shall conduct VRE in session with the trainees participating through role plays.



2.3.1.7  The contractor shall present a minimum of one PTSD case study involving active duty VRE followed by discussion and a question and answer session addressing the case history.



2.3.1.8  The contractor shall discuss issues involved in VRE implementation with coverage of, at least, the following topics: 



	a. Cultural Competence

	b. Using PE and VR in Research vs. Clinical Settings

	c. Training and Consultation

	d. Ethical Issues

	e. Adaptation of VRE and PE for special populations (e.g., TBI)



2.3.1.9  The contractor shall train the government trainees on hardware set-up, use, and troubleshooting through the use of breakout groups, role-plays, and practice. 



2.3.1.10  The contractor shall incorporate the scenarios from the Government owned “Virtual Iraq” software tool developed by the University of Southern California under funding provided by the Office of Naval Research, or provide a comparable training tool leveraging the avatar technologies. 



2.3.1.11  The contractor shall maintain training attendance records and collect student critiques from trainees as they complete training.  Completed training attendance records, and student critiques shall be maintained by the Trainer, in either electronic of paper file, and shall be available to the COR within 2 duty days of request. 



2.3.1.12  The contractor shall support VR training tools, software installs, and upgrades as required to facilitate training the therapist staff at each MTF.  



2.3.1.13  The contractor shall prepare classroom, facilities, and necessary equipment for VR training.  Support shall be provided in sufficient time to permit scheduled delivery of training.



2.3.1.14  The contractor shall work directly with the Project Manager and COR to ensure both MTF and specific TeleHealth user training needs identified in this SOW are met.



2.3.1.15 The contractor shall maintain communication with the COR, Program Manager and/or MTF POC regarding all issues pertinent to support and training.



2.3.1.16  The contractor shall participate in weekly conference calls with the COR and/or Program Manager to provide status, identify problem areas and recommend possible solutions.



2.3.1.17  The contractor shall maintain communication with the TeleHealth Project Manager by e-mail and teleconferences in order to coordinate best practices and guidelines across Trainers for use at AF MTFs.



2.3.2  Post-Training Consultation:  Post-Training Consultation shall be provided to all initial training attendees (up to 40 attendees).  Post-Training Consultation can include individual questions, individual assistance with a particular case, weekly telephone calls, VTC’s, group discussion sessions, group scenario development sessions, or web based discussions.  The purpose of the Post-Training Consultation is for the government to optimize use of the Virtual Reality Technology and share lessons learned with all Medical Facility personnel.  The Contractor shall provide a help desk type telephone number where Medical Facility personnel can call and ask questions or schedule time to review a case with a group.  On average, each attendee could request consultation for up to 2 PTSD cases of treatment using the VR system.  

  	

2.3.2.1  The contractor shall provide case consultation through the completion of up to two PTSD cases (up to 24 sessions) for each trainee.  The Contractor shall provide a web-based consultation system that will allow video-recorded therapy sessions to be viewed by both therapist and supervisor.  This system must be HIPAA compliant and compatible with AFMS Information Assurance requirements.  If such a web-based system cannot reside on the AF network (due to Air Force requirements) then the contractor will conduct this consultation by viewing the sessions on DVD with encrypted secure software that is viewable only by those with secure access, password protected software players. All DVDs or recorded sessions will be disposed of in a manner that guarantees patient privacy (time frame to be negotiated between contractor and psychology community upon award of contract).



2.3.2.2   The contractor shall provide weekly verbal feedback to the trained clinicians when    actively engaged in clinical consultation. 



2.3.2.3   The government will be responsible for obtaining “informed consent” from the patient before conducting the session.  



2.3.2.4  The contractor shall perform a once monthly group conference call for all clinical 

trainees to discuss clinical issues and troubleshoot.  These will continue until all clinicians 

have seen 2 cases and been approved by their trainer to practice independently, or for 6 

months, whichever comes first.



2.3.2.5  In addition, once monthly, the supervisors, contract trainers, COR and Telehealth 

Support Manager will have a group conference call to discuss trainees’ consultation and 

progress. 



2.3.2.6   Completion of successful training will be documented with a final written 

evaluation provided to the COR by the certified trainer.



2.3.3   OTHER TRAINING:   The government anticipates that onsite training within the Continental United States (CONUS) could be required to train replacement personnel in cases where trained staff  leave and new medical clinic personnel are employed.   This in anticipated to be infrequent (i.e. once a year), but could include 5-10 new system users.  



2.3.4  TRAINING CONSULTATION FOR SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT:  The Contractor shall provide a help desk type phone number for the AF Medical Support Agency Telehealth Branch to request assistance in System Enhancement features.  The Government will provide a list of 3-10 users who will be authorized to request this support.  The Government is currently developing an independent library of Virtual Reality best practices, lessons learned, useful scenario developments, training guidance, user tips and scenario enhancements that it intends to share with all Medical Facility personnel.  In developing this Government owned learning tool, the Government anticipates the requirement to ask the Contractor questions where technical expertise is required, request individual assistance with a particular case, hold group telephone calls to discuss improvement ideas, VTC’s, group discussion sessions, group scenario development sessions, or to test web based developments.  The purpose of the Government developed Library is for the government to optimize use of the Virtual Reality Technology and share lessons learned and best practices with all Medical Facility personnel.  The Contractor shall provide a help desk type telephone number where designated Telehealth Branch personnel can call and ask technical questions at the expert level or schedule time to review a case with a group.  On average, Expert Level Consultation support could be 7 hours per week.



3.0  General Contractor Personnel Requirements.  The contractor shall provide personnel that meet the following requirements and shall:

3.1  Be responsible for personnel security.  Documentation required for security certification shall be the responsibility of the contractor and the client organization. Contract personnel must have a National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) investigation accomplished prior to beginning work. The contractor shall provide documentation received from the appropriate government agency as to the verification of contract personnel’s NACI certification. 

3.2  Perform unclassified work under the contract.  However, the technical and medical privacy data used within the scope of this contract requires adherence to security/privacy requirements imposed by the government, DoD, AF and other applicable security clearance requirements as applicable to this contract. The contractor shall handle and protect all data as directed and implemented by the AFMSA enterprise and its implementation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). (Appendix) 



3.3  Not release any personal or medical/patient information to include patient/person-level content with personal health information, during the course of this contract.  Contractor shall treat information in accordance with the following:



3.3.1  The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a), which includes Public Law 100-503, Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5400.11, DoD Privacy Program and DoD 5400.11-R,  DoD Privacy and must be treated as FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. 



3.3.2  The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191), which includes DoD 6025.18-R and is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. (Appendix)



3.3.3  Other Military Health Services, AFMSA, Federal and State laws may also be applicable. 



3.4  Provide signed non-disclosure agreements to the COR for each contract employee no later than 5 days after contract award or within 5 days of personnel report for duty.  (Appendix)



3.5 Provide patient information only to government employees, government contractor and subcontractors having a need-to-know such information in the performance of their duties for this project.



3.6  Keep the COR informed of issues dealing with the security clearances and/or certifications. No foreign national candidates shall be utilized within the scope of this contract without prior approval of the government (COR will contact local Foreign Disclosure Officer for guidance,).



3.7  Comply with DoD Directive 8570.1M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program-25 Feb 2010, Change 2, DoD Instruction 8500.2, Information Assurance Implementation DoD Instruction 5400.11, DoD Privacy Program, and DoD Instruction 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program Requirements.



3.8  Be responsible for ensuring personnel security to include, but not limited to meeting the following requirements:



3.8.1  Initiate, maintain, and document minimum personnel security investigations appropriate to the individual’s responsibilities and access to DoD Sensitive Information (SI).



3.8.2  Immediately report to the appropriate Government representative if any 

contractor employee receives an unfavorable National Agency Check and Inquiry (NACI) adjudication, or if information that would result in an unfavorable NACI becomes available.  Notify the Privacy Office within five (5) working days if at any time a contractor employee has privileges revoked to a DoD data or system data because of security concerns. 



3.9  Physical Security.  The contractor shall be accountable for control of government property IAW AFJI 31-102, Physical Security. The contractor is also responsible for the protection of any contractor-owned equipment or supplies brought onto the installation IAW AFJI 31-102.  Further, the contractor shall not remove any government property from the installation.



3.10 Installation Entry.  The contractor will comply with established security procedures for entering the installation and its facilities to include any special security procedures that may be established for entry to Restricted Areas or mission essential or vulnerable areas.



3.11 Denial of Entry.  Government reserves the right to terminate entry of any contractor employee upon disclosure of information that indicates the individual’s continued entry to the installation is not in the best interest of the national security. Additionally, violation of or deviation from established security procedures by contractor employees may result in confiscation of identification media and denial of future entry to the installation.



4.0   Government Furnished Property.   See Appendix B for List of Existing Equipment.  See Para 2.1.2 for location of equipment and description of Maintenance Required on Existing Equipment.  



5.0   Travel.  Trainers will be required to travel to Madigan Army Medical Center, Fort Lewis Washington, an East Coast location yet to be determined or any of the 10 VR MTFs which already have the VR units, to conduct the training.  All travel shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR).  Travel will be reimbursed by the government on a cost reimbursable basis with no fee added.  The government will provide an estimated travel contract line item number with a travel ceiling (Not To Exceed) amount for each year of the contract.



6.0  Project Kickoff Meeting. The contractor shall meet with the government to conduct a project ‘kick-off’ meeting before the start of the base year and each option year.  The government will coordinate the actual date, time and location, and the initial contract kick-off meeting shall occur within 10 business days of award.  The purpose of this meeting is to allow the prime contractor and sub-contractors to introduce themselves, review project communication flow, brief all planned efforts and timelines, and to address any questions or concerns.  The government will provide ground rules for working on military installations worldwide and to address any questions/concerns.  The government will provide the Quality Assurance Checklist at the kick-off meeting.



7.0   Base and Option Years Schedules and Period of Performance  Base year from Date of Award  for a period of 365 days. with Two (2) Option Years  



The base year effort requires that the contractor provide equipment maintenance support on the 10 VR Systems currently deployed.  The contractor shall also conduct clinical applications initial training.  The contractor shall provide content and phobia package enhancements during the Base Year.  At the end of the base contract year, the government will evaluate if sufficient funds are available to exercise the ensuing option year.  If it is determined that the cases of AF service members suffering from PTSD warrant the purchase of another VR System, an additional unit will be procured to come on line in Option Year 1.  The decision to exercise the option year will be made in conjunction with input from the AFMOA Mental Health Leadership Team.  This process will be repeated at the end of each option year should the government decide to exercise the option year.  



Base Year:  Equipment Maintenance Support for existing 10 VR Systems + Training + Content Enhancements & Phobia Package Enhancements

Option Year 1:  One VR System + Training + 1 year Equipment Maintenance Support + Content Enhancements & Phobia Package Enhancements 

Option Year 2:  Training + 1-year Equipment Maintenance Support + Content Enhancements & Substance Abuse Package Updates +Additional Training for VR Cue Exposure to treat substance abuse 



FAR 52.217-8		Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 1 calendar day.

52.217-9  Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. 

Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within __1__provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least __30___ days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed ____42_______ (months). 



8.0   Deliverables and Acceptance



8.1    The contractor shall provide a user manual for both therapeutic techniques and VR System NLT 45 days after contract award.



8.2   The contractor shall provide documentation of open license for run time access to scenarios NLT 30 days after contract award.



8.3   The contractor shall provide a monthly report in Microsoft Word Version 2003 to the designated COR detailing the number of trainees trained, the number of training hours accomplished and any problem areas encountered along with the solution applied no later than 7 business days after the end of each month.



8.4   The contractor shall deliver all training records, critiques and training materials to the COR within 15 days after completion of the final training session.  



8.5   The contractor shall return DVDs/tapes used for the post-training sessions to the government COR within 7 days of completion of training.



8.6 The contractor shall provide a final letter on company letterhead confirming satisfactory completion of all assigned tasks and deliverables.  Final letter is due to the COR NLT 10 days after successful completion of the post training.



8.7  Acceptance Criteria:  











8.8  Incentives:   Positive:  Satisfactory performance is necessary for a decision to exercise any option year.  Satisfactory performance will result in positive customer evaluation which can aid in competition for future awards.  Negative:  The Government reserves the right to assess equitable consideration against the contractor in proportion to the damage experienced from failure to meet the established acceptance criteria.  If any of the services do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount.  If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or to take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the Government may - (1) By contract or otherwise, perform the services and charge to the Contractor any cost incurred by the Government that is directly related to the performance of such service; or (2) Terminate the contract via the available procedures under FAR 52.212-4.





9.0   Intellectual Property.  The government shall retain rights to any intellectual property produced in the course of developing, deploying, training, using and supporting this AFSMA/SG6 requirement.



9.1  Place of Performance



9.1.1   The VR systems are currently located at the following 10 sites listed below: 



779 MDG (formerly 89 MDG), Andrews AFB, Maryland

60 MDG, Travis AFB, California

59 MDG, Lackland AFB, Texas

88 MDG, Wright Patterson AFB, Ohio

3 MDG, Elmendorf AFB, Alaska

305 MDG, McGuire AFB, New Jersey

96 MDG, Eglin AFB, Florida

1 MDG, Langley AFB, Virginia

23, MDG,  Moody AFB, Georgia

86, MDG, Ramstein AB, Germany



9.1.2   The government reserves the right to change site locations should mission requirements or operational needs change.



9.1.3   The initial Clinical Applications Training shall be accomplished at the US Army Madigan Medical Center located in Fort Lewis, Washington or an East Coast location yet to be determined.  Additionally, the government may fund site specific training in an effort to train contractor personnel, who currently are unable to attend government sponsored training at Madigan or east coast location.



9.1.4   On site equipment training shall be performed at the time of installation at each MTF.  



10.0   QUALITY CONTROL PLAN.   The contractor is responsible for contract management and quality control, not the Government.



10.1   The contractor shall be responsible for quality control (QC) for all work accomplished during the performance of this contract.  All work shall be accomplished using the best commercial practices and be within the Government guidelines.  Work and documentation produced by the contract personnel will be regularly reviewed by the COR.



10.2   The contractor shall provide a draft Quality Control Plan at time of proposal and a final 21 days after government review and approval of the draft.  Provide updates with the Monthly Status Report.   Update to the QC Plan must be accepted by the government.



10.3  Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)



The contractor shall provide the Government with a well-developed and well-defined QASP to be utilized by the Government. The QASP must be submitted to GSA and to the Air Force within in 21 days from the date of award.

 

This QASP must:

Identify the services and products that will be measured based on the criteria of acceptance.

Provide methods of surveillance for each acceptance level that relate directly to mission essential tasks. 

Establish the responsibilities for performing the measurement.

Define the Government role in overseeing the performance.

Provide for feedback to the contractor regarding quality, quantity, and timeliness of the service outputs.

Establish timeframes for communicating performance improvements needed.

Since this is a performance-based contract, the Government must effectively validate in a timely manner the performance of the contractor is meeting the services required.  This QASP provides a systematic surveillance method for the services and describes the methodology by which the contractor’s performance will be monitored. The principal focus of the surveillance system is the performance of the contractor in the key areas identified in the PBSOW.

 

For the purposes of this plan and in addition to 52.212-4(a) Inspection/Acceptance, GSA considers the FAR Clauses 52.246-4 Inspection of Services—Fixed Price to meet the FAR Part 37.601 criteria for establishing a procedure for negative incentives of a contract.  These clauses give the Government the right and provide the flexibility to determine the most appropriate remedy for non-performance.  Thus, by virtue of including this clause in the contract, there is a procedure in place to do so where it makes good business sense to do so.  On the other hand, it may be more advantageous to the Government to pursue re-performance rather than monetary deductions.

 

Please note that the Contractor, and not the Government, is responsible for management and quality control actions necessary to achieve quality in the delivery of services.  The QASP is not intended to duplicate the Contractor’s quality control procedures.  The Government reserves the right to make unilateral changes to the QASP anytime during the contract period.  The levels of surveillance may be altered based upon the Contractor’s performance level.





11.0   NON-PERSONAL SERVICES.  The government will neither supervise contractor employees nor control the method by which the contractor performs the required tasks.  Under no circumstances shall the government assign tasks to, or prepare work schedules for, individual contractor employees.  It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to manage its employees and to guard against any actions that are of the nature of personal services, or give the perception of personal services.  If the contractor feels that any actions constitute, or are perceived to constitute personal services, it shall be the contractor’s responsibility to notify the CO immediately.  These services shall not be used to perform work of a policy/decision making or management nature, i.e., inherently Governmental functions.  All decisions relative to programs supported by the contractor shall be the sole responsibility of the government.  



12.0   CONTRACTOR IDENTIFICATION.  All contractor/subcontractor personnel shall wear company picture identification badges so as to distinguish themselves from government employees.  When conversing with government personnel during business meetings, over the telephone or via electronic mail, contractor/subcontractor personnel shall identify themselves as such to avoid situations arising where sensitive topics might be better discussed solely between government employees.  Contractors/subcontractors shall identify themselves on any attendance sheet or any coordination documents they may review.  Electronic mail signature blocks shall identify their company affiliation.  Where practicable, contractor/subcontractors occupying collocated space with their Government program customer should identify their work space area with their name and company affiliation, or as a minimum “Contractor” after name.



13.0   HOURS OF OPERATION.   The government’s typical work day is 0730 to 1630 Monday through Friday.  



13.1 .  Government agencies will not be available during scheduled holidays, inclement weather, weekends, after duty hours, or AF down days.  All chargeable work will be directly attributable to the task being performed by the individual.  



13.2   Scheduled Holidays.  New Year’s Day, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday, President’s Day; Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.



14.0 Monthly Payments Monthly invoices as detailed in the Form 300, Block 20.  



This contract is firm-fixed price.



The Government shall pay the Contractor, upon the submission of proper invoices or vouchers, the prices stipulated in this contract for supplies delivered and accepted or services rendered and accepted, less any deductions provided in this contract. Acceptance criteria shall be in accordance with the Performance Based criteria listed in the PBSOW.  Unless otherwise specified in this contract, payment shall be made on partial deliveries accepted by the Government if- 

(a) The amount due on the deliveries warrants it; or 

(b) The Contractor requests it and the amount due on the deliveries is at least $1,000 or 50 percent of the total contract price. 

(c) The Government anticipates that invoicing will be on a monthly basis at one twelfth of awarded firm fixed price for each performance year unless an alternative payment plan is agreed to by both parties (i.e. based on a deliverables schedule).  



14.1 Invoices



Contractor shall submit one monthly invoice using GSA’s IT-Solutions.   Supporting documentation (performance metrics, monthly status reports, travel authorization, receipts) shall accompany all invoices.  The Government shall pay the Contractor on a monthly basis upon submission of proper invoices for work delivered and accepted, less any deductions for unacceptable work.  The Contractor is required to register in IT Solutions Shop (ITSS) at http://it-solutions.gsa.gov for post-award process. Use of this ITSS procedure is a bona fide performance requirement of the contract.  The Contractor is required to submit its invoice electronically through the ITSS system and must also submit an invoice to the Finance Center list below.  Instructions and a help desk phone number are included on the website.

GSA Kansas City Address

Finance Operations and Disbursement Branch (BCEB)

299X

PO Box 219434

Kansas City, MO 641219434

United States





14.1.1 Invoices for final payment must be so identified and submitted when the task has been completed and no further charges are to be billed.  Final invoices shall be submitted no later than 90 days after completion of this task order.



14.1.2 Release of Claims (ROC).  Invoices for final payment must be so identified by a ROC letter and submitted when the task order has been completed and no further charges are to be billed.  The invoice must be marked with the word “FINAL” (even if it is a zero amount).



15.0  Contract Administration. The client COR under this task order is TBD of the Air Force.  The COR oversees the contractor’s technical efforts to assure that its performance is in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract.  The COR, as a direct line of technical contact for the Contractor, will also be the primary interface between the contractor and the Contracting activity, GSA, on matters pertaining to the contractor’s technical effort.  The COR monitor’s all technical aspects of task orders to ensure that the Contractor performs the technical requirements of the task orders in accordance with the terms of the contract; perform or cause to be performed inspections necessary in connection with performance of the contract; assuring prompt inspection and acceptance or rejection of reports, deliverables, and invoices; maintain written and oral communications with the Contractor concerning the aspects of the contract within his purview; issue written interpretations of technical requirements of Government drawings, designs, and specifications; monitor the Contractor's performance under the contract and notify the Contractor and GSA Project Manager, and GSA CO as deemed necessary, of any deficiencies observed; coordinate Government furnished property availability; provide for site entry of Contractor personnel as required.  The COR assures that the contractor has a current facility clearance as well as appropriate clearances for its personnel to have access to Government sites or classified material as soon as it is determined that access to sites or classified material will be required.



The COR ensures that neither party is arbitrarily enlarging the scope of the contract or changing delivery schedules or otherwise obligating the Government to unanticipated or deferred cost.  The COR will inform the GSA PM immediately of potential technical, management and operational problems of the contract order; recommend changes to the SOW if necessary and submit these to the PM and CO.  The COR monitors through to completion the Contractor's performance in order to ensure compliance with all requirements, specifications, terms and conditions under the task order.  The COR maintains a contract working file;



The GSA Project Manager (PM) under this task order is Ms. Sheri Torres.  The PM is the first line contact of GSA for COR.  The PM is the interface between the requiring organization and the contracting organization.  The PM reviews issues raised by the COR and decides if and when to refer to the Contracting Officer those matters, other than purely technical problems, that may affect the contract.  As such the PM refers those matters, other than purely technical problems, which may affect the contract scope, cost, performance or otherwise necessitate a formal contract modification to the CO.  The PM will coordinate and forward to the Contracting Officer (CO) for further formal contract action as deemed necessary.  The PM ensures that neither party is arbitrarily enlarging the scope of the contract or changing delivery schedules or otherwise obligating the Government to unanticipated or deferred cost and assuring that there is no duplication of work or costs.  The PM, in coordination with the COR, informs the Contracting Officer when the contractor is known to be behind schedule, with the reasons therefore and coordinating with the COR and Contracting Officer corrective action necessary to restore the contract schedule.  The PM will furnish to the Contracting Officer a copy of any contractually significant correspondence in order to prevent possible misunderstanding or creation of a condition that may be the basis of a later claim. The PM will also review and submit recommendations to Contracting Officer on subcontracts with respect to their relationship with the prime contracts.  When requested by the contractor or COR, provide necessary Government interpretation of the contract’s technical requirements from cognizant sources.



Among the exclusions of the COR’s and PMs’ authority are:  Issuing instructions to the Contractor to start or stop work, Directing the contractor to perform work unless explicitly provided for in the contract, Modifying the stated terms, conditions, or costs of the contract; Waiving the Government’s rights with regard to the contractor’s compliance with the specifications, price, delivery, or any other terms or conditions, approving items of cost not specifically authorized by the contract; Directing changes;. Executing supplemental agreements; Rendering a decision on any dispute on any question of fact under the Disputes provision of the contract; Taking any action with respect to termination, except to notify the Contracting Officer of possible conditions of breach; Authorizing delivery or disposition of Government-furnished property not specifically authorized by the contract; Giving guidance to the contractor, either orally or in writing, which might be interpreted as a change in the scope or terms of the contract;. Discussing procurement plans or any other advance information that might provide preferential treatment to one firm over another when a solicitation is issued for a competitive procurement.



Any conduct by these officials, or other Government representatives, considered by the Contractor to constitute a change under the contract shall be communicated promptly to the CO in writing.  Following submission of such notice to the CO, the Contractor shall diligently continue performance of this contract to the maximum extent possible in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Contract.  



The CO is the sole interpreter of contract terms and conditions.  All contractual agreements, commitments, or modifications which involve price, quantity, quality, or delivery schedules shall be made by the Contracting Officer.  As per 52.212-4(c) Changes, changes to the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.



16.0  Transition between Contracts



The contractor shall not recruit on Government premises or otherwise act to disrupt Government business. Within fifteen calendar days of contract award, the contractor shall inform the appropriate Project Manager of incumbent personnel, who will not be placed on the delivery order. 

	

The contractor shall have management and administrative support in place to fulfill work requirements at time of commencement of the contract.  Addresses, telephone numbers, and functional responsibilities shall be provided to the CR and the Project Manager at time of work initiation.



The contractor must recognize that services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue such services.  The contractor shall cooperate to effect an orderly and efficient transition in the event of transition to a successor.



The contractor shall provide phase-in, phase-out services, at no additional cost to the Government, as long as there is any active contract.  Appropriate contract management personnel shall meet with the successor contractor to coordinate delivery order transition.  Discussions shall include personnel transition to the successor contractor, and the transition of contract specific items such as Government or contractor furnished supplies, materials, equipment, and services.



The contractor shall disclose necessary personnel records (names and phone numbers) to allow the successor to conduct interviews for possible transition.  If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the incumbent contractor shall grant release at a mutually agreed date and negotiate transfer of the employee's earned fringe benefits.  The resumes for incumbents must be approved by the Government prior to assignment to a position.

13.0  Data Rights

17.0   52.227-14  Rights in Data—General. 

Rights in Data—General (Dec 2007) 

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Computer database” or “database means” a collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. 

“Computer software”— 

(1) Means 

(i) Computer programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations; and 

(ii) Recorded information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. 

(2) Does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. 

“Computer software documentation” means owner’s manuals, user’s manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. 

“Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 

“Form, fit, and function data” means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, and data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements. For computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithms, processes, formulas, and flow charts of the software. 

“Limited rights” means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(3) if included in this clause. 

“Limited rights data” means data, other than computer software, that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, to the extent that such data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, including minor modifications. 

“Restricted computer software” means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret, is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, or is copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of the computer software. 

“Restricted rights,” as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software. 

“Technical data” means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software documentation). This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature that is included in computer databases (See ). 

“Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 

(b) Allocation of rights. 

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government shall have unlimited rights in— 

(i) Data first produced in the performance of this contract; 

(ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this contract; 

(iii) Data delivered under this contract (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this contract; and 

(iv) All other data delivered under this contract unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause. 

(2) The Contractor shall have the right to— 

(i) Assert copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; 

(ii) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause; 

(iii) Substantiate the use of, add, or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and 

(iv) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause. 

(c) Copyright— 

(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(i) Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor may, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, assert copyright in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract and published in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings, or similar works. The prior, express written permission of the Contracting Officer is required to assert copyright in all other data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(ii) When authorized to assert copyright to the data, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notices of , and an acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number). 

(iii) For data other than computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly by or on behalf of the Government. For computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted computer software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly (but not to distribute copies to the public) by or on behalf of the Government. 

(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract unless the Contractor— 

(i) Identifies the data; and 

(ii) Grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause or, if such data are restricted computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (g)(4) of this clause (if included in this contract) or as otherwise provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this contract. 

(3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government will not remove any authorized copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and will include such notices on all reproductions of the data. 

(d) Release, publication, and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except— 

(1) As prohibited by Federal law or regulation (e.g., export control or national security laws or regulations); 

(2) As expressly set forth in this contract; or 

(3) If the Contractor receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this contract that contain restrictive markings, the Contractor shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless specifically authorized otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer. 

(e) Unauthorized marking of data. 

(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this contract are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(3) or (g) (4) if included in this clause, and use of the notices is not authorized by this clause, or if the data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this contract, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Contractor, or cancel or ignore the markings. However, pursuant to , the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings. 

(i) The Contracting Officer will make written inquiry to the Contractor affording the Contractor 60 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings; 

(ii) If the Contractor fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 60-day period (or a longer time approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions. 

(iii) If the Contractor provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer will consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Contractor will be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer will furnish the Contractor a written determination, which determination will become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Contractor files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officer’s decision. The Government will continue to abide by the markings under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer’s determination becoming final (in which instance the Government will thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed. 

(2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act () if necessary to respond to a request thereunder. 

(3) Except to the extent the Government’s action occurs as the result of final disposition of the matter by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Contractor is not precluded by paragraph (e) of the clause from bringing a claim, in accordance with the Disputes clause of this contract, that may arise as the result of the Government removing or ignoring authorized markings on data delivered under this contract. 

(f) Omitted or incorrect markings. 

(1) Data delivered to the Government without any restrictive markings shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights. The Government is not liable for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. 

(2) If the unmarked data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Contractor may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer in writing for good cause shown) after delivery of the data, permission to have authorized notices placed on the data at the Contractor’s expense. The Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Contractor— 

(i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied; 

(ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent; 

(iii) Establishes that the proposed notice is authorized; and 

(iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice. 

(3) If data has been marked with an incorrect notice, the Contracting Officer may— 

(i) Permit correction of the notice at the Contractor’s expense if the Contractor identifies the data and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or 

(ii) Correct any incorrect notices. 

(g) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. 

(1) The Contractor may withhold from delivery qualifying limited rights data or restricted computer software that are not data identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause. As a condition to this withholding, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Identify the data being withheld; and 

(ii) Furnish form, fit, and function data instead. 

(2) Limited rights data that are formatted as a computer database for delivery to the Government shall be treated as limited rights data and not restricted computer software. 

(3) [Reserved] 

(h) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractor’s obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government those rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and shall not proceed with the subcontract award without authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. 

(i) Relationship to patents or other rights. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government. 













17.1  52.227-16  Additional Data Requirements.

Additional Data Requirements (June 1987) 

(a) In addition to the data (as defined in the clause at , Rights in Data—General clause or other equivalent included in this contract) specified elsewhere in this contract to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at any time during contract performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this contract. 

(b) The Rights in Data—General clause or other equivalent included in this contract is applicable to all data ordered under this Additional Data Requirements clause. Nothing contained in this clause shall require the Contractor to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by the Rights in Data—General or other equivalent clause of this contract, or data which are specifically identified in this contract as not subject to this clause. 

(c) When data are to be delivered under this clause, the Contractor will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery. 

(d) The Contracting Officer may release the Contractor from the requirements of this clause for specifically identified data items at any time during the 3-year period set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. 









18.0   APPENDICES



Acronyms

List of Existing Equipment

List of Mandatory Reading

HIPAA Agreement

Non-Disclosure Agreement

Organizational Conflict of Interest






APPENDIX A


1.3  ACRONYMS



	




APPENDIX B – EQUIPMENT INVENTORY LIST 

 

Inventory x 10 locations

 

1. Head mount display

2. Desktop PC with monitor including VR software x2

3. Base shaker

4. Scent machine

5. Scents x8

6. Headphones

7. Microphone

8. Game controller

9. Rifle controller

10. Amplifier

11. Cabling

12. Documentation

13. PC with BI Capture software

14. External camera

 

Air Staff inventory

 

1. Laptop PC including VR software

2. Head mount display

3. Headphones

4. Microphone

5. Game controller

6. Documentation

7. PC with BI Capture software

8. External camera




APPENDIX C – List of Mandatory Reading



The contractor shall leverage existing enterprise-wide learning management system capabilities already developed and available to cover the history of VR and mental health applications with an emphasis on anxiety and phobia applications, and present training on the use of Virtual Reality to therapists assigned to Air Force MTFs.  The required reading list will change as new articles are identified that would enhance the training provided.





 Pre-Training Preparation.  The contractor shall provide materials for reading assignments which will be distributed by the contactor several weeks prior to in-person training to allow trainees to read in advance.  Additionally, the contractor shall provide the appropriate links to already developed enterprise-wide learning management systems to augment the pre-training reading materials. Optional reading will be provided as well.  



2.1.9.1  Required reading assignments include:



a.	Foa, E. B., Hembree E. & Rothbaum, B. O. (2007).  Prolonged Exposure Therapy for PTSD: Emotional Processing of Traumatic Experiences, Therapist Guide.  New York.  Oxford University Press.  



b.	Rothbaum, B. O., Foa, E. B., & Hembree E. (2007).  Reclaiming Your Life from a Traumatic Experience: Client Workbook.  New York.  Oxford University Press.



c.	Gerardi, M., Rothbaum, B.O., Ressler, K., Heekin, M., & Rizzo, A. (in press).

Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy Using a Virtual Iraq: Case Report.  Journal of Traumatic Stress.



d.	Rizzo, A. Graap, K. & Rothbaum, B.O. (2007).  Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy for war veterans.  In C. R. Figley & W. P. Nash (Eds.) Combat and Operational Stress Management: Theory, Research, and Practice.



e.	Rizzo, A.A., Graap, K., Perlman, K., Mclay, R.N., Rothbaum, B.O., Reger, G., Parsons, T., Difede, J., & Pair, J. (in press).  Virtual Iraq: Initial Results from a VR Exposure Therapy Application for OIF/OEF Combat-Related Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.  In J.D. Westwood et al. (Eds.), Studies in Health Technology and Informatics.  Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. 



f.	Difede J, Cukor J, Jaysinghe N, Patt I, Jedel S, Giosan, G, Spielman L, Hoffman H. (2007).  Virtual Reality Treatment for PTSD following September 11, 2001.  Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, 68, 1639-1647.



g.	Difede J, Malta LS, Best S, Henn-Haase C, Metzler T, Marmar C. (2007).  A Randomized Controlled Clinical Treatment Trial for WTC-Related PTSD in Disaster Workers, JNMD, 195, 861-865.



h.	Difede, J., Roberts, J., Jayasinghe, N., & Leck, P. (2006).  Evaluation and treatment of emergency services personnel following the World Trade Center attack.  In Y. Neria, R. Gross, R. Marshall, & E. Susser (Eds.), September 11, 2001: Treatment, Research and Public Mental Health in the Wake of a Terrorist Attack.  New York: Cambridge University Press.



2.1.9.2  Optional readings include:



a.	Rizzo, A.A. & Kim, G. (2005).  A SWOT analysis of the field of Virtual Rehabilitation and Therapy.  Presence: Teleoperators and Virtual Environments.  14(2), 1-28.



b.	Rizzo, A.A., Schultheis, M.T., & Rothbaum, B.O. (2002).  Ethical issues for the use of virtual reality in the psychological sciences.  In S. Bush & M. Drexler (Eds.), Ethical Issues in Clinical Neuropsychology.  Lisse, NL: Swets & Zeitlinger Publishers.  pp. 243-280.



c.	Parsons, T. & Rizzo, A.A. (in press).  Affective Outcomes of Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy for Anxiety and Specific Phobias: A Meta-Analysis.  Journal of Behavior Therapy & Experimental Psychiatry.









APPENDIX D - HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (HIPAA) OF 1996

 

HIPAA is comprised of several different sections, each to be implemented by the Dept. of Health and Human Services.  The medical facilities of the military services and the DOD health plans are specifically listed as covered by HIPAA.  Currently, HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules, as set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations, are in effect for all MTFs. The specific implementation of HIPAA Privacy for DOD medical facilities is set forth in DOD 6025.18-R, and for HIPAA Security, the requirements for AF MTFs are contained in DOD 8580.02-R and AFI 41-217, which also contains additional Information Assurance requirements for all AF MTFs.   DOD 6025.18-R, DOD 8580.02-R and AFI 41-217 are incorporated herein by reference.  MTFs are responsible to insure overall compliance with HIPAA requirements, which includes incorporation of certain requirements in contracts entered or amended after the respective implementation dates.

 

IAW these regulations, the Contractor and  its employees meet the definition of Business Associates.  Therefore, a Business Associate Agreement is required by law to comply with both the HIPAA Privacy and Security regulations.  This clause serves as that agreement for each MTF, whereby the Contractor and its employees agree to abide by all HIPAA Privacy and Security requirements regarding health information as defined in this clause, DoD 6025-18-R, DOD 8520.02-R and AFI 41-217.  Additional HIPAA requirements will be addressed when implemented.



Introduction 



(a) Definitions. As used in this clause generally refer to the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) definition unless a more specific provision exists in DOD 6025.18-R, DOD 8520.02-R or AFI 41-217.



HITECH Act shall mean the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.



Individual has the same meaning as the term “individual” in 45 CFR 164.50 1 and 164.103 and shall include a person who qualifies as a personal representative in accordance with 45 CFR 164.502(g).



Privacy Rule means the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information at 45 CFR part 160 and part 164, subparts A and E.



Protected Health Information has the same meaning as the term “protected health information” in 45 CFR 164.501, limited to the information created or received by The Contractor from or on behalf of the Government.



Electronic Protected Health Information has the same meaning as the term “electronic protected health information” in 45 CFR 160.103.



Required by Law has the same meaning as the term “required by law” in 45 CFR 164.501 and 164.103.



Secretary means the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services or his/her designee.



Security Incident shall have the same meaning as the term “security incident” in 45 CFR 164.304, limited to the information created or received by Contractor from or on behalf of the Covered Entity.



Security Rule means the Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards at 45 CFR part 160,162 and part 164, subpart C.



Terms used, but not otherwise defined, in this Agreement shall have the same meaning as those terms in 45 CFR 160.103, 160.502, 164.103, 164.304 and 164.501.



(b) The Contractor agrees to not use or further disclose Protected Health Information other than as permitted or required by the Contract or as Required by Law.



c) The Contractor agrees to use appropriate safeguards to maintain the privacy of the Protected Health Information and to prevent use or disclosure of the Protected Health Information other than as provided for by this Contract.



(d) The HIPAA Security administrative, physical, and technical safeguards in 45 CFR 164.308, 164. 310, and 164.312, and the requirements for policies, procedures and documentation in 45 CFR 164.316 shall apply to the Contractor.  The additional requirements of Title XIII of the HITECH Act that relate to security and that are made applicable with respect to covered entities shall also be applicable to the contractor. The Contractor agrees to use administrative, physical, and technical safeguards that reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the electronic protected health information that it creates, receives, maintains, or transmits in the execution of this Contract.



(e) The Contractor agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is known to the Contractor of a use or disclosure of Protected Health Information by the Contractor in violation of the requirements of this Contract.



(f) The Contractor agrees to report to the Government any security incident involving protected health information of which it becomes aware.



(g) The Contractor agrees to report to the Government any use or disclosure of the Protected Health Information not provided for by this Contract of which the Contractor becomes aware of.



(h) The Contractor agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides Protected Health Information received from, or created or received by the Contractor on behalf of the Government agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply through this Contract to the Contractor with respect to such information.



(i) The Contractor agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides electronic Protected Health Information, agrees to implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards to protect it.



(j) The Contractor agrees to provide access, at the request of the Government, and in the time and manner designated by the Government to Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, to the Government or, as directed by the Government, to an Individual in order to meet the requirements under 45 CFR 164.524.



(k) The Contractor agrees to make any amendment(s) to Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set that the Government directs or agrees to pursuant to 45 CFR 164.526 at the request of the Government or an Individual, and in the time and manner designated by the Government.



(1) The Contractor agrees to make internal practices, books, and records relating to the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information received from, or created or received by the Contractor on behalf of, the Government, available to the Government, or at the request of the Government to the Secretary, in a time and manner designated by the 'Government or the Secretary, for purposes of the Secretary determining the Government's compliance with the Privacy Rule.



(m) The Contractor agrees to document such disclosures of Protected Health Information and information related to such disclosures as would be required for the Government to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of Protected Health Information in accordance with 45 CFR 164.528.



(n) The Contractor agrees to provide to the Government or an Individual, in time and manner designated by the Government, information collected in accordance with this Clause of the Contract, to permit the Government to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of Protected Health Information in accordance with 45 CFR 164.528.



General Use and Disclosure Provisions



Except as otherwise limited in this Agreement, the Contractor may use or disclose Protected Health Information on behalf of, or to provide services to, the Government for treatment, payment, or healthcare operations purposes, in accordance with the specific use and disclosure provisions below, if such use or disclosure of Protected Health Information would not violate the HIPAA Privacy Rule, DOD 6025.18-R, the HIPAA Security Rule, or DOD 8580.02-R if done by the Government.  The additional requirements of Title XIII of the HITECH Act that relate to privacy and that are made applicable with respect to covered entities shall also be applicable to the Contractor.



Specific Use and Disclosure Provisions



(a) Except as otherwise limited in this Agreement, the Contractor may use Protected Health Information for the proper management and administration of the Contractor or to carry out the legal responsibilities of the Contractor.



(b) Except as otherwise limited in this Agreement, the Contractor may disclose Protected Health Information for the proper management and administration of the Contractor, provided that disclosures are required by law, or the Contractor obtains reasonable assurances from the person to whom the information is disclosed that it will remain confidential and used or further disclosed only as required by law or for the purpose for which it was disclosed to the person, and the person notifies the Contractor of any instances of which it is aware in which the confidentiality of the information has been breached.



(c) Except as otherwise limited in this Agreement, the Contractor may use Protected Health Information to provide Data Aggregation services to the Government as permitted by 45 CFR 164.504(e)(2)(i)(B).



(d) Contractor may use Protected Health Information to report violations of law to appropriate Federal and State authorities, consistent with 45 CFR 164.502(j)(1).



Obligations of the Government



Provisions for the Government to Inform the Contractor of Privacy Practices and

Restrictions



(a) Upon request the Government shall provide the Contractor with the notice of privacy practices that the Government produces in accordance with 45 CFR 164.520, as well as any changes to such notice.



(b) The Government shall provide the Contractor with any changes in, or revocation of, permission by Individual to use or disclose Protected Health Information, if such changes affect the Contractor's permitted or required uses and disclosures.



(c) The Government shall notify the Contractor of any restriction to the use or disclosure of Protected Health Information that the Government has agreed to in accordance with 45 CFR 164.522.



Permissible Requests by the Government



The Government shall not request the Contractor to use or disclose Protected Health Information in any manner that would not be permissible under the HIPAA Privacy Rule, DOD 6025.18R, the HIPAA Security Rule, or DOD 8580.02-R, if done by the Government, except for providing Data Aggregation services to the Government and for management and administrative activities of the Contractor as otherwise permitted by this clause.







Termination



(a) Termination. A breach by the Contractor of this clause, may subject the Contractor to termination under any applicable default or termination provision of this Contract.



(b) Effect of Termination.

(1) If this contract has records management requirements, the records subject to the Clause should be handled in accordance with the records management requirements. If this contract does not have records management requirements, the records should be handled in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) below.



(2) If this contract does not have records management requirements, except as provided in paragraph (3) of this section, upon termination of this Contract, for any reason, the Contractor shall return or destroy all Protected Health Information received from the Government, or created or received by the Contractor on behalf of the Government. This provision shall apply to Protected Health Information that is in the possession of subcontractors or agents of the Contractor. The Contractor shall retain no copies of the Protected Health Information.



(3) If this contract does not have records management provisions and the Contractor determines that returning or destroying the Protected Health Information is infeasible, the Contractor shall provide to the Government notification of the conditions that make return or destruction infeasible. Upon mutual agreement of the Government and the Contractor that return or destruction of Protected Health Information is infeasible, the Contractor shall extend the protections of this Contract to such Protected Health Information and limit further uses and disclosures of such Protected Health Information to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as the Contractor maintains such Protected Health Information.



Miscellaneous



(a) Regulatory References. A reference in this Clause to a section in DOD 6025.18-R, HIPAA Privacy Regulation or DOD 8580.02-R, HIPAA Security Regulation, or any CFR or AFI provision means the section as currently in effect or as amended, and for which compliance is required.



(b) Survival. The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under the "Effect of Termination" provision of this Clause shall survive the termination of this Contract.



(c) Interpretation. Any ambiguity in this Clause shall be resolved in favor of a meaning that permits the Government to comply with DOD 6025.18-R, the CFR HIPAA Privacy Rule, DOD 8520.02-R, the CFR HIPAA Security Rule and AFI 41-217.


APPENDIX E 	

			                                                                  Page 1 of 3

	                                         

						                              

NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT



Made as of the _____________ day of ___________________ , 200__, by and between ________________________ with offices at _____________________ ____________________ , the Air Force Surgeon General’s Office, Modernization Directorate, (AF/SG6), located at 5201 Leesburg Pike, Sky 3, Suite 1511, Falls Church, VA, hereinafter referred to as “AF/SG6”.  



Whereas, one or both of the parties to this agreement have proprietary information in the nature of 



("Technology") and wish to evaluate the same in order to explore future uses of said Technology though a future Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRDA) or other approved formal mechanism.  In the event that such a relationship is not established, this agreement will expire 5 years from the date of the last signature by the parties’ authorized representatives.



Whereas, the parties recognize that in order to accomplish these purposes, it may be necessary or appropriate for one party to disclose to the other, information or technology which is considered by the disclosing party to constitute its confidential or proprietary information, hereinafter “Protected Information” which include but are not limited to AF/SG6 developed Technology; 



Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and to induce the disclosure of Protected Information, the parties agree as follows (hereinafter “Agreement”): 



1.  The receiving party shall maintain for a period of five (5) years from receipt of Protected Information the confidentiality of information disclosed to it or otherwise learned by it during or as a result of research, provided such information is in writing or other tangible form and clearly marked as “Protected Information” when disclosed, or is so designated in writing within thirty (30) days of such disclosure.  The receiving party shall use the same level of care to prevent the use or disclosure of Protected Information as it exercises in protecting its own information of similar nature. 



2.  Protected Information shall be used by the receiving party solely for the purposes of facilitating and conducting the evaluation. The receiving party shall not perform, nor have performed, any tests or measurements on Proprietary Information disclosed in the form of technology samples for the purpose of determining such samples' method(s) of manufacturing.



3.  Protected Information disclosed by one party to the other shall remain the property of the disclosing party, and shall be returned upon written request. The receiving party may, however, retain one copy of the Protected Information in its files, except in the specific instance of Technology samples which shall be returned to the disclosing party upon request.



4.  The disclosure of Protected Information by one party to the other shall not constitute a grant by the disclosing party to the receiving party of any species of right, title, interest, or property in or to Protected Information.  No license or other right under any U.S. or foreign patent, copyright, or know-how is granted or implied by this agreement. 





Page 2 of 3



5.  The receiving party shall use reasonable efforts to disclose Protected Information received by it only to those of its employees or contractors who must be so informed to enable that party to accomplish the purposes stated herein.  The contractors must have signed the attached Supplemental Nondisclosure Agreement, binding them to adhere to the confidentiality obligations hereunder. 



6.  The receiving party's obligations of confidentiality hereunder shall not apply to the following: 



a. information which is now or hereafter becomes a part of the public domain;



b. information known to the receiving party before disclosure to it by the disclosing party hereunder as evidenced by its records; 



c. information given to the receiving party by a third party having a right to disclose the same; 



d. information which the receiving party is compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process, or by other mandatory requirements of law; or,



e. information which is developed at any time by or for the receiving party independently of the Protected Information.  



7.  No amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or binding on the parties unless made in writing and signed on behalf of each of the parties by their respective duly authorized officers or representatives.



8.  Neither party shall have the right to assign or otherwise transfer any right or interest herein to any other person, firm, corporation or association without the prior written consent of the other party. 



9.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws applicable to the Federal Government of the United States of America.



10.  The above constitutes the full and complete Agreement in this matter by and between the parties hereto.






Page 3 of 3



SUPPLEMENTAL NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT



In consideration of being allowed access to Protected Information under the above basic Nondisclosure 



Agreement between AF/SG6 and ________________________________, the Undersigned agrees that:

 

The basic Nondisclosure Agreement has been read and the requirements and restrictions with respect to the use, protection, disclosure, and return or destruction of Protected Information are understood.  The terms of the Agreement with respect to the use, protection, disclosure, and return or destruction of Protected Information will be complied with by the Undersigned to the same extent as if the Undersigned were an original Party and signatory to the basic Nondisclosure Agreement.  When the Undersigned signs this Agreement as the representative of an Organization, the Undersigned will ensure that all individuals who are authorized access to Protected Information through the Organization will sign and enter into this Supplemental Nondisclosure Agreement before being granted access to Protected Information.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Undersigned has hereto subscribed individually and/or as representatives of the named Organization.



Insert the person’s name or subcontractor’s name	Insert the Address of Organization





_______________________________________

(Organization Name)	 



_______________________________________

(Name (Print or Type)	



_______________________________________           ____________________

(Signature)						 		        Date




APPENDIX F

									         

ORGANIZATION CONFLICT OF INTEREST



This information provides examples of certain organizational conflicts of interest that are prescribed by Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 9.5.  The two (2) underlying principles that this seeks to avoid are preventing the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment and preventing unfair competitive advantage.  The following subsections prescribe certain limitations on contracting as the means of avoiding, neutralizing or mitigating organizational conflicts of interest.



If, under this task order, the Contractor will provide systems engineering and technical direction for a system, but does not have overall contractual responsibility for its development, integration, assembly, checkout or production, the Contractor shall not be awarded a subsequent contract to supply the system or any of its major components, or to act as consultant to a supplier of any system, subsystem, or major component utilized for or in connection with any item or other matter that is, directly or indirectly) the subject of the system’s engineering and technical direction.  The term of this prohibition shall endure for the entire period of this contract and for two (2) years thereafter.



If, under this contract, the Contractor will prepare and furnish complete specifications covering non-developmental items, to be used in a competitive acquisition, the Contractor shall not be permitted to furnish these items, either as a prime or subcontractor.  The term of this prohibition shall endure for the entire period of this contract performance and for either two (2) years thereafter or the duration of the initial production contract, whichever is longer.  This rule shall not apply to contractors who furnish specifications or data at Government request or to situations in which contractors act as Government representatives to help Government agencies prepare, refine or coordinate specifications, provided this assistance is supervised and controlled by Government representatives.



If, under this contract, the Contractor will provide technical evaluation of products or advisory and assistance services, the Contractor shall not provide such services if the services relate to the Contractor’s own or a competitor’s products or services unless proper safeguards are established to ensure objectivity.



If, under this contract, the Contractor gains access to proprietary or source selection information of other companies in performing advisory assistance services for the Government, the Contractor agrees to protect this information from unauthorized use or disclosure and to refrain from using the information for any purpose other than that for which is was furnished.  A separate agreement shall be entered into between the Contractor and the company whose proprietary information is the subject of this restriction.  A copy of this agreement shall be provided to the Contracting Officer.


Appendix  (continued)



HQ USAF/SG6 NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT



Purpose:  The purpose of this Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) Is to confirm in writing that the undersigned understands his/her responsibilities regarding protection of information and/or material that he/she may come in contact with in the course of work performed under this agreement.  This NDA covers all forms of information made available as Government Furnished Information (GFI) or information/material developed under this agreement, whether in the form of working materials or as deliverable product.  This NDA applies to unclassified Government information/material, proprietary information/material supplied by other vendors for use by the Government, and classified Government information/material and is intended to supplement, not replace, the DD Form 254. All information/material released to the Contractor remains the property of the U.S. Government and may be withdrawn at any time.

 

Responsibility:  As a condition of acceptability for work under this agreement with AF/SG6, individuals are required to sign the following NDA: 



NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT

FOR CONTRACTOR/SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES, SENIOR MANAGERS 

OR CORPORATE OFFICERS (Agreement)



	I, ___________________________________ __________ (clearly print or type name), an employee, senior manager, or corporate officer of either ____________________________ or a subcontractor to___________________________________________________________ under __________________________ awarded to _______________________________ by the AF/SG6 office or other AF/SG Division/Directorate (customer) agree not to disclose to any third party or anyone who is not performing work for the Customer and who does not have a need to know such information, any proprietary, source selection sensitive information, programmatic, or budgetary information contained in or accessible through the customer’s programs and activities.  Proprietary, programmatic, budgetary and source selection sensitive information and data will be handled in accordance with Government direction under the AF/SG program and applicable Government laws and regulations, including Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Section 3.104.



	I understand that information I may receive or possess as a result of my assignment to work on AF/SG6 of AF/SG activities under this contract may be considered proprietary, or source selection sensitive information.  The responsibilities of my employer for the proper use and protection from unauthorized disclosure of proprietary or source selection sensitive information are described in FAR 3.104.  Pursuant to FAR 3.104, I agree that I shall not appropriate such information for my own use or release or discuss with third parties unless specifically authorized by the FAR procedures.



	This Agreement shall continue for a term of five (5) years from the date upon which I last have access to such information.  Upon expiration of this Agreement, I have a continuing obligation not to disclose proprietary, programmatic, budgetary or source selection sensitive information to any person or legal entity unless that person or legal entity is authorized by the Government to receive such information.  I understand that any violation of my duty to protect proprietary or source selection sensitive information I was exposed to while working as an employee of _________________________ company working under the Prime Contract, subcontract, or task order as referenced above may subject me, and/or my employer, to administrative, civil and criminal sanctions.





If signing as a corporate officer of either the Prime or Subcontractor, I certify that I am a duly authorized representative with legal authority to bind the company.



Agree and Accepted:



____________________________________________

(Signature of Employee/Sr. Mgr/Officer)            (Date)



____________________________________________

(Printed Name)			



____________________________________________

(Position)



____________________________________________

(Printed Name of Employer)	









Deliverable or Service Required

Measure of Success

Standards - Criteria







PWS 2.3 Training











Initial Training

Timeliness

Training occurs same day as installation



Quality 

Materials are informative, useful, up to date



Quantity

Minimum of One Case Study evaluated



Quality 

Content of training materials matches PBSOW



Quality 

Materials are up to date



Quality 

Realistic and Effective Avatar and Role Playing 







Post Training Consultation

Timeliness

90% of Telephone requests are responded to within 24 hours



Quantity 

Provide up to two consultations per user



Effectiveness

90% of users trained and certified to work independently within 6 months



Quality

100% of patients have informed consent agreement signed prior to session



Communications and Effectiveness

90% of weekly scheduled calls, monthly group sessions, are productive







Other Training

Effectiveness

VR Systems moved are functioning within agreed to timelines



Quality

90% of attendees of new user training for moves or personnel changes rate training favorably



Effectiveness

90% of users trained and certified to work independently within 6 months







Expert Consultation

Availability

90% of Telephone requests are responded to within 24 hours



Quality 

Contractor recommendations are considered valuable to the government



Effectiveness

Contractor provides innovative solutions to customer request for assistance









ACRONYM

TERM

AF

Air Force

AF/SG 

United States Air Force, Office of the Surgeon General

AF/SG6 

USAF, Office of the Surgeon General, 

Office of the Chief Information Officer 

AFMS 

Air Force Medical Service

AFMSA 

Air Force Medical Support Agency

CBT

Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy

CO 

Contracting Officer

HMD

Heat-Mounted Device

MHS

Military Health Service

MTF

Military Treatment Facility

PMP 

Project Management Plan

PTSD

Post Traumatic Stress Disorder

QCP

Quality Control Plan

SG6M

Telehealth Branch

SOW

Statement of Work

TBI

Traumatic Brain Injury

TMH

Telemental Health

VR

Virtual Reality

WW

Wounded Warrior



Company Name

AF/SG6

By_____________________________________

By_____________________________________

Name _________________________________

Name _________________________________

Title ___________________________________

Title ___________________________________

Date: __________________________________

Date:  _________________________________









Date:	 	August 12, 2011			    In Reply Refer To:	9Q1SFSRDB003		



From:		Fred Hersom, Senior Contracting Officer



Subject:	Request for Quotation (RFQ) for Air Force Surgeon (AF/SG), Telehealth

Branch (AF/SGR) on acquiring Annual Maintenance on 11 Virtual Reality Systems and provide on-site Clinical Application Training for these systems



To: 	Combined Synopsis/Solicitation FAR Parts 12 and 13.5 procedures apply to this acquisition using a “Best Value” tradeoff



The U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), hereby issues this RFQ on behalf of the U.S.. Air Force Surgeon (AF/SG), Telehealth Branch (AF/SGR).   This solicitation will be accomplished using the terms and conditions of Commercial Items acquisition under FAR Parts 12 and 13.5 Test Program, Combined Synopsis/Solicitation procedures.  GSA will conduct this acquisition using Federal Business Opportunites (FBO).  

.

3.  RFP SUBMITTAL AND EVALUATION CRITERIA



All questions must be submitted in writing via email to the personnel listed below no later than August 29, 2011 no later than 5pm PDT. 



Your quote should be submitted via email no later than Wednesday September 14, 2011, 5pm PDT to both the GSA project manager and contracting officer listed below.



Ms. Sheri Torres, GSA/FAS Project Manager





and 



Fred Hersom, GSA Senior Contracting Officer





Period of Performance: 



The period of performance is a 12 month base period from date of award.



Place of Performance: Various locations as specified in the PBSOW.





Client Address:

AFMSA/SG6P

Falls Church, VA  22041



“Best Value” Technical Tradeoff.  Award will be made to the responsible Offeror whose Proposal is determined to provide the “best value” to the Government.  The Government will evaluate the Non-Price (Technical) Evaluation Factors listed below, which, when combined, are significantly more important than Price, for the “best value” tradeoff analysis.  The relative importance of Price will increase if  Offerors are considered essentially equal under the evaluation of their respective Non-Price Factor Proposals.  There are no “sub-factors” which will be separately evaluated under any of the listed evaluation factors.        



Submissions shall be no more than 20 pages (single sided), 12 point font.  Resumes and commitment letters are not counted against the 20 page maximum.  



(1)  Technical Approach 



(1) a) Technical Approach - Submission



Describe your firm’s knowledge and understanding of the requirement as outlined in the PBSOW.  Identify the methodology and techniques your firm shall utilize to fulfill the technical requirements, especially those described under Sections 2.0 “Summary of Requirements” and 8.0 “Deliverables and Acceptance” of the PBSOW.  The technical quote must include a listing of the proposed labor categories, the number of hours proposed for each labor category (for each time period of the contract), and a position description for each labor category, which, at a minimum, shall describe the roles, responsibilities, experience, education, and training requirements for the labor category.  Relate each skill category assigned under your Schedule Contract to its relevance in fulfilling each technical requirement deliverables under the PBSOW. (DO NOT INCLUDE PRICING IN THE TECHNICAL APPROACH SECTION OF YOUR QUOTE)

The proposed staffing should also explain your company’s methodology for hiring, retaining and managing its personnel and what steps are used to reduce employee turnover. 



Your technical quote should also include a proposed Virtual Reality System configuration that will fulfill the Option Year 1 VRS delivery requirement.  The proposed VRS system shall conform to and fulfill all of the requirements under paragraph 2.1  TURNKEY VIRTUAL REALITY SYSTEMS



 As part of your technical quote, you must provide a Quality Control Plan that addresses how your firm will provide quality control for the technical service requirement of the PBSOW. Where subcontractors or teaming arrangements are proposed, organizational control shall be clearly delineated so as to demonstrate and ensure responsiveness to the needs of the Government.







(1) b) Technical Approach –  Evaluation:  



The Government will evaluate your firm’s knowledge and understanding of the requirement as outlined in the PWS by assessing your firm’s ability to fulfill the technical requirements described under Section 2.0 “Summary of Requirements” and 3.0 “Quality Control” of the PBSOW.  As part of that evaluation the Government will make an assessment as to whether the mix of labor categories proposed and the number of hours proposed per labor category reflect the Offeror’s understanding of the requirement.  



The Virtual Reality System to be delivered in Option Year 1 VRS will be evaluated in relation to how well that VRS conforms to and fulfills all of the requirements under paragraph 2.1  TURNKEY VIRTUAL REALITY SYSTEMS.



The Government will evaluate your company’s methodology for hiring, retaining and managing its personnel and what steps are used to reduce employee turnover.  The Government will also evaluate the submitted Quality Control Plan to ensure that your firm is likely to provide quality control for the technical service requirement of the PWS. 



(2)  Experience



(2) a) Experience – Submission  



Provide information regarding your company’s experience with 3 recent contracts which began or have been completed in the last three years.  Submit information on contracts that your company considers relevant to demonstrating your company’s ability to perform the proposed effort, including any problems that your company encountered during the course of performance, the actions that your company took to overcome such obstacles; and any quality awards or other certifications that indicate that your company possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required.  The following information must be submitted for each project listed (provide this information for subcontractors or teaming partners for that work that that firm(s) would be providing):  



(1)  Contract Number

(2)  Contract Title and Brief Description of Work Performed. Include rationale supporting your company’s reasons why it believes that the project is relevant to this procurement.  Your proposal should also explain what aspects of the contracts are deemed relevant to the proposed effort and to what aspects of the proposed effort they relate.  

(3) Name, Phone No., email and facsimile No. for a Point of Contact and for an alternate contact

(4)  Dollar Value of the Work Performed, including average yearly value of performance period.

(5) Contract Start Date

(6) Contract Completion Date (if applicable)



(2) b) Experience – Evaluation  



Experience – The Government will evaluate your company’s direct experience with the type of work described in the PBSOW.  Offerors which demonstrate that they are experienced with this type of work will be evaluated more favorably than Offerors which have little to no direct experience with this type of work, or which rely extensively upon the experience of their proposed subcontractors.      



(3) Past Performance



(3) a) Past Performance – Submission  



Provide the following information for three (3) current or recent, past contracts of similar size and scope.



Contracting and technical point of contact names, titles, and current telephone numbers;

Dates of performance; and 

Brief narrative relating the Contractor’s past performance/experience to this task order.



Please have the references complete the attached Past Performance Questionnaire for each contract/task order and return to the undersigned at fred.hersom@gsa.gov with a copy to 

no later than the closing date of this RFQ.  



The government reserves the right to take into account any performance information provided by any additional sources.  Past performance will be evaluated on quality of performance, cost of performance, schedule of performance, and business relations.



(3) b) Past Performance – Evaluation  



The Government will evaluate the Offerors’ past performance for similar projects as those described in the PWS.  Performance information will be used to assess “how well” it has performed under these projects.  When assessing the past performance information for an Offeror, the Government will consider the Offeror’s explanation about the relevance of the projects listed, any problems that the Offeror encountered during the course of performance, the actions that the Offeror took to overcome such obstacles; and any quality awards or other certifications that indicate the Offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required.  The Government will consider past performance information regarding predecessor companies to the Offeror, but only if the Offeror explains the relationship between such predecessor companies and the Offeror.  The Government will also consider the past performance information for major proposed sub-contractors and teaming partners, but only to the extent that the proposed sub-contractor or teaming partner will be performing specific project requirements.  Offerors with no past performance information will be evaluated with neither a favorable nor an unfavorable, neutral rating. 



(4) Price Proposal:  



(4) a) Price – Submission as Separate Document



A quote that includes an overall yearly price that is excessively high or low may be considered unrealistic and unreasonable, and may receive no further consideration.  



Provide a firm fixed price that is fair, reasonable and realistic for the base and for each option year.  The price quote shall also include, at minimum, the following information:



a)	Skill labor categories (along with a description of the education and experience requirements needed for individuals to qualify for the listed category)

b)	Skill labor hourly rates 

c)    Skill labor hours/day per personnel

d)	Skill labor total number of hours per year



The price quote should include a cost reimbursable ceiling for travel in the amount of $25,000 for the base period and each option period.



Please note that your quote should include any costs for the one additional VRS to be delivered during Option Year One. 



Also, your offer should include a proposed milestone payment schedule based on the document entitled “9Q1SFSRDB003 Milestone Payment Plan” that is included with this RFP.



(4) b) Price – Evaluation The Government shall evaluate the Offeror’s total proposed price to ensure that the offered price is fair, reasonable and realistic for the project. The proposed milestone payment plan will also be evaluated for realism, fairness and reasonablenss.



Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best interest, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the base requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).



Prices that are excessively high or low may be considered unrealistic and unreasonable, and may receive no further consideration for award. Proposals should avoid unbalanced pricing across option years.  Unbalanced pricing may increase performance risk and could result in payment of unreasonably high prices. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is significantly over or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques.



Additional Instructions to Offerors



The Government intends to award without discussions and reserves the right to award a task order immediately following the conclusion of the evaluation of initial offerors without clarifications, discussions or negotiations if determined in the best interest of the Government by the Contracting Officer. Therefore, it is critical that each offeror be fully responsive to the solicitation, its provisions and submits their best proposals initially. However, upon a complete initial review of the quotations received the Government may establish a competitive range comprised of the greatest number of quotes rated most highly as determined by the Contracting Officer. The Government also reserves the right to request Final Proposal Revisions (FPRs) of offers determined to be within the competitive range established by the Contracting Officer. 

Quotes must be valid for at least 30 days from date of submission to GSA.

Other Information: 

Please ensure that your firm’s registration on the DOD’s Central Contractor Registry (CCR) system  is accurate and current.  



All prospective offerors must be registered with the GSA IT Solutions Shop at .  The GSA IT Solutions Shop will be used for task order award, post award administration, and payment of invoices.



Thank you for your time and consideration.  We look forward to reviewing your proposals.

Fred Hersom

Senior Contracting Officer

