













SAF/FMB 





Performance Work Statement (PWS)



for



Electronic Document Management System 





































































Table of Contents



	Background	                              							3

    1.1 Acronyms List                                                                                                                     3

2.0	Task Order Objective                     							3

3.0	Reference                      								             3

4.0	Task Requirements                                          						3

5.0     Deliverables                                                                                                                               4

6.0     Service Summary                                                                                                                       4

7.0     Government Furnished Property                                                                                                5

8.0     Data                                                                                                                                            5                   

9.0     Travel                                                                                                                                         5

10.0   Security Instructions                                                                                                                  6

11.0   Transition Plan                                                                                                                           6

12.0   Administration Considerations                                                                                                  6































































1.0 BACKGROUND: In 2003, SAF/FMB contracted for the development of a document management system to provide the above capabilities.  The solution implemented was the EDMS.   SAF/FMB’s current EDMS files can no longer be read since the previous contract has ended and the required software is not available. 



  

         1.1 Acronyms list



        AF - Air Force 

        CO – Contracting Officer

        COR – Contracting Officer Representative

        CS – Communications Squadron

        DoD – Department of Defense

        EDMS – Electronic Document Management System

        FOUO – For Official Use Only

        GFE – Government Furnished Equipment

        GFP – Government Furnished Property

        PM- Program Manager

        PWS – Performance Work Statement

        SAF/FMB - Secretary of the Air Force Financial Management and Budget

        SAP – Software Assurance Plan

        TO – Task Order





2.0 TASK ORDER OBJECTIVE:  SAF/FMB’s ongoing effort to streamline business practices, to improve information flow, and to speed access to historical data, requires the implementation of a document management system such as Sharepoint or another widely used Electronic Document Management System (EDMS) to provide the following capabilities: (a) document imaging/archiving; (b) records management and electronic cataloging; and (c) retrieval of historical documentation.    



3.0  REFERENCE AFI 31-601,  Industrial Security Program  Management shall apply.    



4.0 TASK REQUIREMENTS:  This contract is to provide an Electronic Document Management System software and maintenance of the software for SAF/FMB.  Contractor will obtain server-based software licenses, provide a Software Assurance Plan (SAP), and work directly with the AF’s 844th Communications Squadron (CS) personnel to install all software, patches, updates, and release upgrades.  The contractor will provide maintenance, troubleshooting, and training, as required, on the EDMS software.   All software purchases and licenses become the property of SAF/FMB.   Provided quote is for two separate license support packages as one will be used on a non-classified system while the other will require contractor personnel to possess the clearance level to access Secret and/or NATO Secret prior to commencement of this task.  



       4.1 Software. Contractor shall procure a Software Assurance Plan (SAP) and 10 concurrent site licenses for server-based software.  Working directly with the 844th CS, contractor will install all updates, patches and software releases within twenty (20) work days from release date.  The SAF/FMB Functional Representative shall be notified prior to and approve all changes in the EDMS.  Verbal reports/status of changes shall be followed up with written reports/status



   4.2 Read Legacy Document. Software must be able to read previously scanned (legacy) Laserfiche documents and allow for search capability on those documents.



       4.3 Training. Contractor shall provide training to SAF/FMBMM Division Chief located at 1130 Air Force Pentagon Rm 5D948, Washington DC  20330and users on the EDMS.



       4.4 Support. Contractor will provide unlimited email, phone and onsite support as needed for the contracted year.  



       4.5 Status Report.  Contractor shall provide a Progress and Status Report within 10 business days after close of each month.

 

5.0 Deliverable(s):  The Contractor shall provide task order deliverable(s) in a format mutually agreed upon by the Government and the Contractor.  



                                                           Table 1-Deliverables

  























6.0 Services Summary:  



Table 2 - Services Summary 





7.0 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY





7.1 Government Furnished Property: The government will furnish, or make 

 available, work space, equipment, and network access. The Contractor shall ensure accurate control and accountability of all Government Furnished Property (GFP) in accordance with the terms and conditions of this contract.  All materials remain the property of the Government and will be returned to the COR upon request or at the end of the period of performance.

 

8.0 DATA:  The Government shall have unlimited rights to all deliverables of this task order to include intellectual property rights.



9.0 TRAVEL



           9.1 Local travel to attend meetings within the local city or base of assignment commuting vicinity shall be considered a cost of doing business and shall not be separately reimbursed.  



10.0 SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS:    



10.1 Work under this task order is Secret and/or NATO Secret.  The contractor shall comply with all applicable Department of Defense (DoD) security regulations and procedures during the performance of this task order.  The contractor shall not disclose and must safeguard sensitive information, computer systems and data, privacy act data, and Government personnel work products that are obtained or generated in the performance of this task order. 



Access to government facilities is restricted. Contractors are required to submit Visitor Access Requests (VARs) prior to the arrival of any personnel and the contractor must sign a Visitor Group Security Agreement (VGSA). 



The Contractor may be  precluded from award if unable to  comply with AFI 31-601,  Industrial Security Program  Management. 

  



11.0 TRANSITION PLAN:  The incumbent contractor’s transition plan must provide for commensurate training of government personnel (military, civilian and contractor) to effectively use the system and to provide documentation of tasks to be completed for a seamless turnover of all services, prior to contract termination date. 



12.0 ADMINISTRATION CONSIDERATIONS:  



12.1 Performance Schedule:  The Contractor shall perform this task for one base year and two option years.  The periods of performance shall be as follows:



Base Year		28 Sept 2012- 27 Sept 2013 

Option Year I 		28 Sept 2013- 27 Sept 2014

Option Year II             28 Sept 2014- 27 Sept 2015 





12.2 Place of Performance:  The Contractor shall perform tasks at 1130 Air Force Pentagon, Room 5C949, Washington, D.C. 20330-1130. 



12.3 Duty Hours:  In Normal duty hours are for site support are 0800-1700, Monday through Friday.  Duty hours for the administrative/Executive support will be determined by the specific executives they will be supporting.  The Government reserves the right to change hours of operation or restrict contractor access.  Work outside these daily hours is prohibited without Contracting Officer’s Representative approval.    



Government agencies will not be available during scheduled holidays, inclement weather weekends, or after duty hours.  All chargeable work will be directly attributable to the task being performed by the individual.  The scheduled holidays are as follows: New Year’s Day; Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday; Inauguration Day (Washington, DC metropolitan area only); President’s Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Columbus Day; Veteran’s Day; Thanksgiving Day; and Christmas Day.



12.3.1 Billable Hours:  Government surveillance of contractor performance is required to give reasonable assurance that efficient methods and effective cost controls are being used.  In order for man-hours to be billed on this requirement deliverable services must have been performed in direct support of a requirement in the PWS.  In the course of business, situations may arise where Government facilities may not be available for performance of these requirements (i.e., closure due to weather, down day etc.).   During these situations contractor personnel will not be paid or will report to their corporate offices





12.4 Contractor shall attend a kick off meeting specific to the TO requirement with the COR and the government task lead within 10 business days of contract start date.  The Contractor shall provide concurrence with the date, time and location for the meeting via email notification to the COR at least two (2) business days prior to the scheduled meeting.  



12.4.1 Contractor shall provide professional and courteous support to the customer such as responsiveness, adaptability, flexibility, and timeliness are essential. Contractor follows established quality control procedures and corrects problems by established suspense dates.  Contractor meets quarterly with the COR and provides a monthly performance report NLT 10 business days after the close of each month. 



12.4.2    The contractor shall develop and implement procedures to identify, prevent, and ensure non- recurrence of defective services.  



12.4.3 When conversing with Government personnel during business meetings, over the telephone or via electronic mail, contractor/subcontractor personnel shall identify themselves as such to avoid situations arising where sensitive topics might be better discussed solely between Government employees. 



12.4.4 Contractors/subcontractors shall identify themselves on any attendance sheet or any coordination documents they may review.  Electronic mail signature blocks shall identify their company affiliation.  



12.4.5 Where practicable, contractor/subcontractors occupying collocated space with their Government program customer should identify their work space area with their name and company affiliation, or at a minimum, “Contractor” after name.



12.5 Non-Personal Services: The Government will neither supervise contractor employees nor control the method by which the contractor performs the required tasks.  Under no circumstances shall the Government assign tasks to, or prepare work schedules for, individual contractor employees.  It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to manage its employees and to guard against any actions that are of the nature of personal services, or give the perception of personal services.  If the contractor feels that any actions constitute, or are perceived to constitute personal services, it shall be the contractor’s responsibility to notify the CO immediately.  These services shall not be used to perform work of a policy/decision making or management nature, i.e., inherently Governmental functions.  All decisions relative to programs supported by the contractor shall be the sole responsibility of the Government.



Deliverables

PWS Reference

Due Date

Monthly Status Report

4.5

Within 10 business days after close of each month

Perform Contract Kickoff Meeting

12.4

Within 10 business days after contract start date



PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE

PWS

PARA

PERFORMANCE THRESHOLD

Contract Management

4.5

Submit monthly performance report within 10 business days after the close of each month.

Personnel Qualifications and Security Requirements

10.1

Contractor personnel meet and adhere to all qualifications and security requirements listed at time of proposal submission.







Contract Management

12.4.1

Contractor provides professional and courteous support to the customer –responsiveness, adaptability, flexibility, and timeliness are essential. Service tickets shall be responded to within 2 hours if problem can be resolved by phone, or 4 hours if an in-person visit is required.

Contract Management

12.4

Perform Contract Kickoff Meeting within 10 business days of contract start date.