DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT

, an individual official, employee, consultant, or subcontractor of or to (the Authorized Entity), intending to be legally bound, hereby consent to the terms in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted conditional access to certain information, specified below, that is owned by, produced by, or in the possession of the United States Government.
(Signer will acknowledge the category or categories of information that he or she may have access to, and the signer's willingness to comply with the standards for protection by placing his or her initials in front of the applicable category or categories.)
Initials:

I,

Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII)

I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with all requirements of the PCII program set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (CII Act) (Title II, Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135, 6 USC 101 et seq.), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto (6 CFR Part 29), as amended, and the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and with any such requirements that may be officially communicated to me by the PCII Program Manager or the PCII Program Manager's designee.
Initials:

Sensitive Security Information (SSI)

I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with the standards for access, dissemination, handling, and safeguarding of SSI information as cited in this Agreement and in accordance with 49 CFR Part 1520, "Protection of Sensitive Security Information," "Policies and Procedures for Safeguarding and Control of SSI," as amended, and any supplementary guidance issued by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security.
Initials:

Other Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU)

As used in this Agreement, sensitive but unclassified information is an over-arching term that covers any information, not otherwise indicated above, which the loss of, misuse of, or unauthorized access to or modification of could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Section 552a of Title 5, as amended, but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This includes information categorized by DHS or other government agencies as: For Official Use Only (FOUO); Official Use Only (OUO); Sensitive Homeland Security Information (SHSI); Limited Official Use (LOU); Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES); Safeguarding Information (SGI); Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI); and any other identifier used by other government agencies to categorize information as sensitive but unclassified. I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with the standards for access, dissemination, handling, and safeguarding of the information to which I am granted access as cited in this Agreement and in accordance with the guidance provided to me relative to the specific category of information.
I understand and agree to the following terms and conditions of my access to the information indicated above: 1. I hereby acknowledge that I have received a security indoctrination concerning the nature and protection of information to which I have been provided conditional access, including the procedures to be followed in ascertaining whether other persons to whom I contemplate disclosing this information have been approved for access to it, and that I understand these procedures. 2. By being granted conditional access to the information indicated above, the United States Government has placed special confidence and trust in me and I am obligated to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the laws, regulations, and directives applicable to the specific categories of information to which I am granted access. 3. I attest that I understand my responsibilities and that I am familiar with and will comply with the standards for protecting such information that I may have access to in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the laws, regulations, and/or directives applicable to the specific categories of information to which I am granted access. I understand that the United States Government may conduct inspections, at any time or place, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the conditions for access, dissemination, handling and safeguarding information under this Agreement. DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04) Page 1

4. I will not disclose or release any information provided to me pursuant to this Agreement without proper authority or authorization. Should situations arise that warrant the disclosure or release of such information I will do so only under approved circumstances and in accordance with the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific categories of information. I will honor and comply with any and all dissemination restrictions cited or verbally relayed to me by the proper authority. 5. (a) For PCII - (1) Upon the completion of my engagement as an employee, consultant, or subcontractor under the contract, or the completion of my work on the PCII Program, whichever occurs first, I will surrender promptly to the PCII Program Manager or his designee, or to the appropriate PCII officer, PCII of any type whatsoever that is in my possession. (2) If the Authorized Entity is a United States Government contractor performing services in support of the PCII Program, I will not request, obtain, maintain, or use PCII unless the PCII Program Manager or Program Manager's designee has first made in writing, with respect to the contractor, the certification as provided for in Section 29.8(c) of the implementing regulations to the CII Act, as amended. (b) For SSI and SBU - I hereby agree that material which I have in my possession and containing information covered by this Agreement, will be handled and safeguarded in a manner that affords sufficient protection to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of or inadvertent access to such information, consistent with the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific categories of information. I agree that I shall return all information to which I have had access or which is in my possession 1) upon demand by an authorized individual; and/or 2) upon the conclusion of my duties, association, or support to DHS; and/or 3) upon the determination that my official duties do not require further access to such information. 6. I hereby agree that I will not alter or remove markings, which indicate a category of information or require specific handling instructions, from any material I may come in contact with, in the case of SSI or SBU, unless such alteration or removal is consistent with the requirements set forth in the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific category of information or, in the case of PCII, unless such alteration or removal is authorized by the PCII Program Manager or the PCII Program Manager's designee. I agree that if I use information from a sensitive document or other medium, I will carry forward any markings or other required restrictions to derivative products, and will protect them in the same matter as the original. 7. I hereby agree that I shall promptly report to the appropriate official, in accordance with the guidance issued for the applicable category of information, any loss, theft, misuse, misplacement, unauthorized disclosure, or other security violation, I have knowledge of and whether or not I am personally involved. I also understand that my anonymity will be kept to the extent possible when reporting security violations. 8. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such violation may result in the cancellation of my conditional access to the information covered by this Agreement. This may serve as a basis for denying me conditional access to other types of information, to include classified national security information. 9. (a) With respect to SSI and SBU, I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of the information not consistent with the terms of this Agreement. (b) With respect to PCII I hereby assign to the entity owning the PCII and the United States Government, all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of PCII not consistent with the terms of this Agreement. 10. This Agreement is made and intended for the benefit of the United States Government and may be enforced by the United States Government or the Authorized Entity. By granting me conditional access to information in this context, the United States Government and, with respect to PCII, the Authorized Entity, may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement including, but not limited to, application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in breach of this Agreement. I understand that if I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I could be subjected to administrative, disciplinary, civil, or criminal action, as appropriate, under the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the category of information involved and neither the United States Government nor the Authorized Entity have waived any statutory or common law evidentiary privileges or protections that they may assert in any administrative or court proceeding to protect any sensitive information to which I have been given conditional access under the terms of this Agreement.

DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04)

Page 2

11. Unless and until I am released in writing by an authorized representative of the Department of Homeland Security (if permissible for the particular category of information), I understand that all conditions and obligations imposed upon me by this Agreement apply during the time that I am granted conditional access, and at all times thereafter. 12. Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should find any provision of this Agreement to be unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. 13. My execution of this Agreement shall not nullify or affect in any manner any other secrecy or non-disclosure Agreement which I have executed or may execute with the United States Government or any of its departments or agencies. 14. These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 12958, as amended; Section 7211 of Title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); Section 1034 of Title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); Section 2302(b)(8) of Title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 18, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 USC 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling. 15. Signing this Agreement does not bar disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of law. 16. I represent and warrant that I have the authority to enter into this Agreement. 17. I have read this Agreement carefully and my questions, if any, have been answered. I acknowledge that the briefing officer has made available to me any laws, regulations, or directives referenced in this document so that I may read them at this time, if I so choose. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT Acknowledgement
Typed/Printed Name: Government/Department/Agency/Business Address Telephone Number:

I make this Agreement in good faith, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion. Signature: Date:

WITNESS:
Typed/Printed Name: Government/Department/Agency/Business Address Telephone Number:

Signature:

Date:

This form is not subject to the requirements of P.L. 104-13, "Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995" 44 USC, Chapter 35.
DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04) Page 3





Statement of Work

March 19, 2013







US Department of Homeland Security, NPPD

Federal Protective Service











Provide and Install Three New Fixed Interior Cameras and Three New 19-Inch Flat Screen LCD Color Monitors, 



And



Relocate One Existing DVR, One Existing 17-Inch Flat Screen LCD Color Monitor and Fourteen Existing Hardwired Duress Alarm Buttons





At The





Gary Social Security Administration (SSA) District Office

808 South Lake Street

Gary, IN 46403







Building #IN1769






Table of Contents





GENERAL									1



INSTRUCTIONS								2



EQUIPMENT STANDARDS 						3



SYSTEMS REQUIREMENTS						4



EXECUTION								5



INSTALLATION								6



SAFETY AND HEALTH 							7



WARRANTY 								8



SECURITY CLEARANCE REGULATIONS/REQUIREMENTS	9



RECORDING PRESENCE							10



SPECIAL CONDITIONS (if applicable)					11



ATTACHMENT (S)								12






CCTV SYSTEM

STATEMENT OF WORK





GENERAL

This requirement is for labor, supervision and materials to provide: 



the installation of three (3) new interior domed fixed color cameras; 

the installation of three (3) new 19-inch LCD flat screen television monitors in three location;

the relocation of an existing multiplexer/digital video recorder (DVR); 

the relocation of an existing 17-inch LCD flat screen television monitor; 

integration of the entire Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) system; and 

the relocation of the existing 14-button hardwired duress alarm system. 



All work will be performed at the Gary Social Security Administration (SSA) District office, 808 South Lake Street, located in Gary, IN 46403. The basic requirements of this system are outlined below.



SCOPE OF WORK



CCTV Cameras: 



Install three (3) new high quality interior fixed domed color cameras (Ganz Mini-Dome ZC-D 7000 series Digital Day/Nite Model # ZC-D7312NHA or the equivalent). Installation will be in an acceptable market standard manner and allow for full functional control of the cameras. The system will be designed as a surveillance system used to visually monitor visitor identification and movement, and create a visual record of activity at critical and/or vulnerable identified areas. 



The three (3) new interior cameras to include: 

the Reception/Waiting area (IC # 1) above looking straight downward facing northwest; 

the Interviewing area (IC # 2) pointing toward the west; and 

the Interviewing area (IC # 3) pointing downward toward the east. 



Placement of the cameras is indicated on the provided diagram. The interior cameras shall be able to view during course of normal business hours as well as the hours of darkness.



CCTV Monitoring: Multiple camera views must be able to be displayed at the same time on all monitors.



Three (3) New Monitors. Install and program the three (3) new cameras. Cameras to be compatible with the existing DVR, three new monitors, and one existing monitor. Install and reconfigure (if necessary) the dome for optimal performance based on site conditions. Use DIP switches or internal menus to configure the iris baseline set up, dynamic range, backlight compensation, automatic white balance, automatic white trace, etc. The new monitors possess color picture high resolution and approximately 19 inches diagonally measured screens or comparable (indicate what is comparable) to clearly view all cameras quad format.



The three (3) new colored monitors will be located in: 

the District Manager’s office;

the Assistant District Manager’s offices; and 

the Protective Security Officer’s work station.



One Existing Monitor. The one (1) existing colored monitor will be relocated to the secured LAN communication room.



1.3	CCTV Recording: Existing GE Sym/Sym Pro Digital Video Recorder Model/Vicon Pilot Lite Model. Relocate existing DVR to the secured LAN communication room. Ensure that the relocated DVR is able to read, write and record all images captured by new and existing CCTV system. 



1.4	Hardwired Duress Alarm Buttons: Relocate the fourteen (14) existing hardwired duress alarm buttons located to the four (4) reception and ten (10) front interviewing work stations during and after the completion of the construction and reconstruction phase. 



2.	INSTRUCTIONS



The Contractor and other personnel (e.g., trainers, repair personnel) shall contact the Technical Representative (TR) Tom Belko at phone number 219-852-2747 or email  to schedule appointments prior to arriving at the site for site surveys, installation, repairs, etc. Personnel shall also register with the Gary SSA District Manager/lessor upon entering and leaving the building. 



Site Visit: There will be NO site visit for this posting. 



The Contractor shall submit its quote for all materials, devices and equipment including a list of manufacturer’s complete model numbers and quantities. The quote shall also contain a statement that no exceptions are taken to the Statement of Work (SOW).



The contractor shall submit with its quote the following:



Any related published technical requirements and provide catalog cut sheets of the equipment and wiring schematic diagram and/or block diagram with sufficient descriptive data. The literature furnished must be identified or marked exactly to show the item to which it pertains. This information shall be provided to the FPS TR.



2.4.2	Evidence that there is an experienced and efficient service organization within local driving distance which regularly carries a stock of the repair parts for the system to be furnished; is capable of providing preventative maintenance, repairs, modifications, and emergency service response to trouble calls, and where feasible, is capable of responding to service calls within 24 hours. 



2.4.3	The  company installing the system is a qualified security specialist, and at least one employee on the job has at least three (3) years of experience in security system installation. Note: The term “specialist” as used in this requirement shall mean an individual or firm of established reputation or, if newly organized, whose personnel have regularly engaged in the installation of alarm systems and which maintains a regular force of workmen skilled in either (as applicable) manufacturing or fabricating items required by the contract, installing items required by the contract, or otherwise performing work required by the contract. Where the contract requires installation by a specialist, that term shall also be deemed to mean either the manufacturer of the item; an individual or firm licensed by the manufacturer; or an individual or firm who will perform the work under the manufacturer’s direct supervision.



2.5	Installation Timeframe: After receiving notice to proceed, the Contractor must begin performance no later than _ten (10)_ days after the date of order (ADO) for supplies or services and must have the work complete and system ready for testing and acceptance no later than _fifteen 15 days ADO. The Contractor shall coordinate daily work hours with the FPS TR, and facility Gary SSA District office Site Manager and the facility manager/lessor. Any technical questions regarding the installation of the system or its technical operation shall be directed to the FPS.



2.6	The Contractor shall verify all dimensions, equipment needs and conditions at the site before starting any portion of the work under this contract. 



2.7	Supervision: The contractor will make available a representative from the company who has decision-making authority to appear on-site within a reasonable amount of time to answer questions or resolve problems or disputes. It is not the intent of the Government neither to supervise the contractors’ employees or subcontractors nor to resolve any disputes or problems between the contractor and his/her subcontractor(s). The Contractor is solely responsible for ensuring his/her subcontractors and employees follow the contract requirements. 



2.8	The Contractor is required to follow the manufacturer’s instructions when programming all equipment. The FPS TR will coordinate with the Contractor to ascertain the compatibility Upon completion of work, FPS will be allowed fifteen (15) business days prior to approval or acceptance of the work. 



2.9	Work Site Facility Usage – The Contractor will maintain the existing facility in a safe and weather-tight condition throughout construction/installation period. The Contractor will be responsible for the immediate repair and/or damage caused by construction/installation operations. The Contractor is required to take all necessary precautions in protecting the facility and its occupants during the construction/installation period. 






3.	EQUIPMENT STANDARDS



3.1	The Contractor shall provide all material, equipment or devices that meet the requirements of the Underwriters Laboratories Inc. (UL), latest edition as regards to all of the facility’s security systems. The label of or listing by UL will be accepted as conforming to this requirement. In lieu of the label or listing, the Contractor may submit independent proof that the materials, equipment or devices conform to the published UL standards. For materials, equipment or devices that fall outside the scope of activity or UL, this requirement does not apply.



3.2	 The National Electric Code (NEC) of the National Fire Protection Association and standards of the organization listed below are referenced herein. All work and equipment shall be manufactured, tested and installed in accordance with standards that are applicable.



	(1)	Electronic Industries Association (EIA)

	(2)	Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc. (UL)

	(3)	Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association (IPCEA)

	(4)	National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA)

	(5)	Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)

	(6)	American National Standards Institute (ANSI)

	(7)	National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)



3.3	Unless specifically approved by the Contracting Officer, all material and equipment installed in the system shall be new and shall be the products of the manufacturers regularly engaged in the production of such equipment. In addition, they shall be the manufacturer’s latest field proven standard designs available at the time of delivery, except for such modifications from the manufacturers standard as may be required, to conform to these requirements. Where two or more units of the same class equipment are required, such units shall be the standard products of a single manufacturer. Manufacturers shall be so established in the industry that prompt, continuing service and delivery of replacement parts may be assured.



3.4	Maintainability: Devices and equipment shall be designed and constructed to facilitate modular, unitized component replacement. Components shall be so arranged and assembled that they are readily accessible to maintenance personnel without compromising the defeat-resistance operation of the system. Controls and adjustments inside enclosures, requiring manipulation by maintenance personnel, shall be readily visible and accessible with minimum disassembly of the equipment.



3.5	Interchangeability: Like units, assemblies, subassemblies and replaceable parts shall be physically and functionally interchangeable as complete items, without modification. Individual items shall not be hand-picked for fit or performance. Reliance shall not be placed on any un-inspected dimension, rating, characteristic, etc. Whether parts and subassemblies are readily replaceable will be determined by the FPS TR.



3.6	Manufacturers’ Nameplates: Manufacturers’ nameplates will be securely and permanently affixed to each major component of the system, and will be indented, embossed, or silk-screened in a high quality way providing lasting identification. Each nameplate will as a minimum contain the manufacturer’s name and complete model number or serial number of the component currently available and identified in current publications or catalogs.



3.7	Workmanship: Workmanship during manufacture, assembly and installation of the system shall conform, in all respects, to the requirements listed under Equipment Standards above. Soldering, workmanship, wiring, cleaning, finishes and miscellaneous materials shall conform to these requirements.



4.	SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS



4.1	The system must comply for quality of products, design and performance with Underwriters Laboratories Standards for the CCTV systems. The Contractor shall refer to UL standard 611 for central station alarms and UL 1076 for proprietary alarm systems.



4.2	Materials on the Site: Unless otherwise noted or specified, materials and equipment that are removed and not reused from the old site under this contract become the property of the Government and must be turned over to the FPS TR with a complete equipment/list inventory.



4.3	Storage or sale of equipment on the site: Storage or sale of excess salvageable material on the site is not permitted and shall be removed from the site daily.



5.	EXECUTION



5.1	The Contractor shall furnish, install and/or relocate, connect/reconnect and program, as applicable, all equipment and wiring to fully integrate 

the three (3) new interior fixed domed color cameras, 

one (1) existing 16-channel multiplexer/DVR combination model, 

three (3) new colored monitors, and  

one (1) existing colored monitor. 



The Contractor also shall relocate, connect/reconnect and program, as applicable, all equipment and wiring to fully integrate fourteen (14) existing hardwired duress alarm buttons. Duress system shall be certified to act locally in a reliable manner as per its designed requirements.



5.2	The Contractor shall provide all wiring. Quantities, types of conductors and size shall be as required by the manufacturer of the respective equipment being installed and shall be local building and fire code compliant. 



Wiring and Cable



5.3	All wiring and cables shall comply with pertinent sections of the NEC where applicable. Wiring shall be neat and sturdy. Wires shall not be bent sharply where they enter insulating material. Wires shall be properly placed and supported to prevent undue stress on the conductors. Groups of wires and cables not in conduit shall be properly laced and secured.



5.4	Power Wiring: Shall not be routed in common runs with low voltage signal wiring. Power wiring runs shall be so arranged that they do not introduce unwanted signals or currents into the signal wiring.



5.5	Grounding: Conductors, ground conductors, conduits, junction boxes, cabinets, cable messengers and all non-current carrying metallic parts of the equipment shall be grounded in accordance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) NO. 70. The Contractor shall provide wiring from the Digital Communicator to the office’s telephone closet in appropriate number to interface all channels of the Communicator for transmission of signals to a designated telephone line.



5.6	Solid copper conductor shall be used and shall be NEC rated and UL listed. The colors of the insulation of the conductors shall remain the same throughout the system for each individual circuit or function. Cables will be run through conduit or plenum cable as required by local codes, unless otherwise specifically stated.



5.7	Repair of existing work shall be carefully laid out in advance. Where cutting, channeling, chasing or drilling is done in any part of the building during installation, these parts shall be repaired and refinished by skilled mechanics of the trades involved, and all cleaning up and debris removal accomplished at no additional cost the government. Conduit and fittings which run exposed on finished walls and below ceilings shall be painted with two coats of paint to match the surfaces on which they are run.



5.8	The Contractor shall verify all dimensions, equipment needs and conditions at the site before starting any portion of the work under this contract.



Programming



5.9	The Contractor shall be fully responsible for programming all new and relocated equipment



5.10	The Contractor shall set up and reconfigure the dome for optimal performance based on site conditions. The contractor shall use DIP switches or internal menus to configure the iris baseline set up, dynamic range, backlight compensation, automatic white balance, automatic white trace, etc.



5.11	The Contractor shall coordinate through the Battle Creek Mega Center to verify account set up, alarm zone and contact information and other information as may be required to properly program the system so that it is accurately monitored. Additional programming of the duress alarm system communicator may be required prior to acceptance of this system. Coordinate initial system tests through the Battle Creek Mega Center. Contact the FPS TR to arrange for final full testing of systems and pre-acceptance inspection of the work and worksite. 



5.12	Reserved.






Internal Wiring/Cabling Diagram



5.13	An internal wiring/cabling diagram for the existing, relocated and installed CCTV system shall be provided by the Contractor.



Spare Parts



5.14	Spare parts shall be provided in the following quantities:



	One spare fuse for each fused circuit within the system.

	Ten spare lamps for each lamp used in the system.



Testing, Training and Project Acceptance



5.15	Without additional expense to the Government, competent control equipment manufacturer personnel or an authorized representative shall give instructions for the care, adjustment and operation of all parts of the system to the Government employees who are to have charge of the equipment. Copies of the program information will be supplied to the local site manager with the other technical information.



5.16	The instructor(s) shall be thoroughly familiar with all parts of the system and installation at the site and shall be trained in operating theory as well as in practical operation and maintenance work.



5.17	Furnish _ four (4)_ hours of instruction to the local management staff and contract guard one week prior to testing. This training must include the full operation of all new and relocated equipment. Additionally, furnish one set of manuals to the local site manager, one (1) week prior to the instruction period.



5.18	Upon completion of the installation and as applicable, complete performance tests of each device, switch, control unit, power supply battery, battery standby charging supply, each monitoring panel keypad and all other equipment and material required by the contract - and all work and work site conditions - shall be conducted by the contractor in the presence of the FPS TR and the facility site manager. As this system will be installed in a new facility, the date of final testing must be coordinated to coincide with activation of telephone service and Gary SSA District Office occupancy of the location.



5.19	Following the training and testing, the Government shall conduct a reliability test for a continuous period of one (1) month to determine overall system conformance to all the applicable requirements of this contract. Contractor personnel will not be permitted on the site during this burn-in period except at the request of the Contracting Officer, FPS TR or the local SSA manager.



5.20	Acceptance by the Government will be given after the satisfactory completion of the installation of the system, training, and performance and reliability tests. Upon completion of work, FPS will be allowed fifteen (15) business days prior to approval or acceptance of the work.

Receipt by the Government of all required drawings and documents must also have been verified by the FPS TR and/or the local SSA manager.



5.21	Notice of intent to test shall be provided to the FPS TR at least 24 hours prior to testing.



As-Installed Drawings and Documentation



5.22	Upon completion of the work, the Contractor shall neatly modify the approved shop drawings to show details of the system as actually installed, including all modifications which have been approved during the course of the contract. Drawings shall include wiring/cabling diagrams showing numbered terminal points, wiring/cabling diagram of individual components and schematics of all electrical or electronic equipment used.



5.23	The Contractor shall furnish a manual containing all necessary information to enable personnel to operate, test, and maintain the system. All pertinent drawings schematics, tables, charts, and photographs shall be included. The manual shall incorporate the following information in the order shown:



	(1)	Covers: Front and back covers shall be of durable stock with the following printed 	on the front cover: Title with the correct nomenclature; contract number; date of 	publication, proprietary notice to read, “Prepared under Contract No. _______ by (Name 	of Contractor) __________, for the Federal Protective Service.



	(2)	Title page: The title page shall include the same information as printed on the front 	cover.



	(3)	Table of Contents: The table of contents shall list all important subdivisions of the 	manual.



	(4)	General: The general section shall contain an overall description of the system 	including types of equipment installed, arrangement of the system, etc.



	(5)	Technical Section: The technical section shall contain the detailed information of the equipment included in the system. It shall include: system operation; installation; bill of materials including manufacturers’ names with model and serial numbers; maintenance and adjustment; troubleshooting; and schematic, assembly, wiring/cabling and interconnecting diagrams of all circuits, internal and external, for all equipment.



	(6)	Operation Section: The operation section shall contain recommended procedures 	for operation of each camera, as well as the monitor station as a consolidated system, 	procedures for testing cameras, and instructions for capturing and viewing all new and 

existing interior colored monitors.



5.24	Two (2) copies each of the as-installed drawings and the manual shall be furnished as follows: one copy to the FPS TR and one (1) copy to the facility, Gary SSA District Office, manager.



6.	INSTALLATION



CCTV Requirements 



The CCTV is for security monitoring and recording and will include the following elements:



6.1.1	Work Included: The following work is included as part of this contract.



	6.1.1.1	Cable for cameras.

	6.1.1.2	CCTV system equipment including wall bracket for monitor.

	6.1.1.3	Power for cameras and control equipment.

	6.1.1.4	Penetration through outside wall for outside cameras.

	6.1.1.5 Programming the cameras/integrating the cameras with the currently installed DVR.

	6.1.1.6 Surge Supressors for the CCTV system.



6.1.2	Coordination: Coordinate the location of outside cameras with the location of exterior lighting and areas of security concern.



6.1.3	Conduit and Wiring:



	6.1.3.1	CCTV system cabling shall be RG-59/U for instances up to 500 ft. Leave 12 inch minimum slack at junction boxes and six (6) ft. slack at monitoring site(s). 

	6.1.3.2	Conduit for power cables shall be sized based on camera locations and wiring.



6.1.4	The CCTV System shall be microprocessor based, video-matrix, single CPU system control. The system shall be capable of providing operator the ability to view and control cameras for general surveillance as well as specific view for more information. The system shall activate pre-position and auxiliaries on equipped cameras. 



7.	SAFETY AND HEALTH



7.1	All work shall comply with the applicable requirements of 29CFR 1910/1926 and 40CFR 761. All work shall comply with applicable state and municipal safety and health requirements. Where there is a conflict between applicable regulations, the most stringent will apply.



7.2	The contractor shall assume full responsibility and liability for compliance with all applicable regulations pertaining to the health and safety of personnel during the execution of work, and shall hold the Government harmless for any action on its part or that of its employees or subcontractors, which results in illness or death.



7.3	The contractor shall provide all necessary safety equipment and ensure that such equipment and all relevant safety procedures are adequate for the job being performed and are utilized properly.



8.	WARRANTY



8.1	The Contractor shall warrant to the government all parts, components and devices comprising the working system upgrade for one (1) calendar year, beginning on the date of acceptance by the government.



8.2	During this warranty period, no cost shall accrue to the government for any discovered needed repairs or replacement of any components in the system, including labor, parts acquisition, stocking charges, transportation or service calls. 



8.3	A full walk test to accomplish inspection of the installed system shall be conducted in the presence of the FPS TR, including successful transmission reception of all digital codes assigned by alarm monitoring central station prior to the acceptance of the system by the government. No acceptance shall be made absent this successful walk test. 



8.4	Acceptance by the government for this project will occur when all components and devices are properly installed and tested to the satisfaction of the FPS COTR and/or TR along with written and signed documentation consisting of DHS Form 700-21 entitled Material Inspection and Receiving Report or GSA Form 220 entitled Inspection of Work under Contract, with reported information. A copy of the same information will be provided to the Contractor to that effect. Absent this documentation, inspection and acceptance shall be considered incomplete and payment may be delayed. 



9.	SECURITY CLEARANCE REGULATIONS/REQUIREMENTS



9.1	Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 entitled “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (HSPD-12 Directive) requires mandatory, government wide standards for conducting background investigations, adjudicating the results and issuing credentials to employees and contractors who require long term access to Federally controlled facilities and/or information systems.



9.2	HSPD-12 does not apply to the following category –



Contractor employees under contract to a department or agency, requiring only intermittent access and/or short term access less than 6 months to federally controlled facilities.



The FPS TR will be responsible for ensuring contractor staff has limited/controlled access to facilities and information via escorts by on-site Federal employees and/or posted FPS Protective Security Officer Staff. The FPS TR will also be responsible for providing contractor employees with clear documentation on the rules of behavior and consequences for violations prior to granting access to facilities/systems. The Contractor is responsible for reporting any security violations of their employees to the FPS TR and/or the Battle Creek Mega Center immediately. 



HSPD-12 applies to the following category: Contractor employees under contract to a department or agency, requiring routine access six months or more to federally controlled facilities. 



9.3.1	Each Contract employee must, at a minimum, complete the required DHS, FPS suitability adjudication process as dictated by FPS assigned risk level of either low, 	moderate or high. It is anticipated that no contract employees will require any higher clearance, however, FPS reserves the right to require more stringent background checks in order to accommodate site-specific requirements of other Federal agencies to include but not limited to FBI and DEA. 



9.3.2	FPS will complete Suitability Adjudication prior to any contract employee being permitted to work and the Contractor is responsible for ensuring that all contract employees 	receive suitability adjudication by FPS. Contract employees and all company personnel who may work or visit the work site are required to receive suitability adjudication by FPS. 



9.3.3	Upon notification and commencement of required work effort the FPS COTR and/or TR will furnish appropriate forms or their electronic equivalent in Adobe Acrobat PDF format essential to conduct the required suitability adjudication process. 



9.3.4	The contractor is encouraged to use any local or state law enforcement agency to obtain readable fingerprints on the fingerprint cards. 



9.3.5	Illegible or incomplete forms submitted by Contractor will be returned and will result in significant delays in the adjudication process. The Contractor must ensure that all 	forms submitted to FPS are complete, legible, and accurate. FPS is not responsible for any delays that occur due to the Contractor’s failure to submit timely, complete, accurate, and legible paperwork to FPS. The Contractor must have and utilize an internal quality control process to ensure applications are complete and correct, before submitting them to FPS. 



9.4	Temporary Clearances - If FPS finds any of the Contractor’s employees to be unsuitable to work under this contract after a temporary clearance has been provided, the Contractor shall be advised immediately that such employee can no longer work under this contract, and the Contractor shall in turn immediately remove the affected employee from the project. 



9.5	Temporary Clearances - The contract employee or the contractor may appeal the suitability determination to the Contracting Officer. However, in such cases the Contractor shall proceed with the hiring process at their own risk until the final determination of the employee’s suitability has been accomplished. Under no circumstances shall any Contractor employee who has received a notice of unfavorable or unsuitable adjudication work under this or any DHS, FPS contract. This requirement also applies to contractor employees whose unfavorable adjudication is under appeal. 


9.6	Once a favorable adjudication has been made by FPS, the contract employee is suitable to work under this contract. This favorable adjudication is valid for a period of five (5) years provided that nothing occurs within the five-year period that would render the employee unsuitable for continuing performance under the contract. The Contractor shall immediately notify the FPS TR and the CO in writing of any circumstances that arise which could possibly affect any employee’s suitability status such as arrests, convictions, and/or termination of employment by the contractor for cause, such as misconduct or neglect of duty. 



9.7	The Government shall have and exercise full and complete control over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating suitability clearances for contractor employees. The Government may, as it deems appropriate, authorize and grant temporary clearance to employees of the contractor. However, issuance of a temporary clearance to any such employee shall not be considered as assurance that full clearance will follow as a result or condition thereof and the granting of either temporary or full clearance shall in no way prevent, preclude, or bar the later withdrawal or termination of any such clearance by the Government. 



9.8	No contractor employees will be allowed to work on-site prior to the aforementioned background check. The government reserves the right to deny any individual access to the building. All employees of the contractor and any sub-contractor will be issued building identification badges and will be required to wear them in a visible site at all times while on the premises.



10.	RECORDING PRESENCE



Each contract employee shall sign in each day when reporting to work and sign out when leaving the work site at the end of each day. GSA Form 139, Record of Time of Arrival and Departure, shall be utilized for this purpose. The sign-in and sign-out location shall be designated and established by the FPS TR. Each time and date entries made for arrival, on duty and departure, off duty shall be verified and countersigned by the FPS TR.



11.	SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



There are no such special conditions identified in this section that apply as found here. 



12.	ATTACHMENTS



Attachments available after completion of a Non-Disclosure Agreement.



Attachment A – Map of the Facility

Attachment B – Photos