
I.    STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)

A.    Delivery Order Purpose and Objective.  This Performance Work Statement (PWS) identifies and defines the tasks required for the Department
of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for the purchase, delivery, and installation of telecommunications
systems and training on it.  The location is shown below:

                 New Building Address:
                 DHS / ICE – ERO
                 10 New England Executive Pk.
                 Burlington, MA

B.    Background and Objective.

B.1   Background.  This project description is to outline the scope of work that is expected within this project for ERO located in Burlington,
MA.  ICE has an approved facilities project to complete the data/VTC package and cabling at their 10 New England Executive Drive Location.

C.    Section 508 Compliance.

C.1   Section 508 Detail.  All electronic and information technology (EIT) identified  in  this  PWS,  shall  comply  with  Section  508  of  the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), and the Architectural and  Transportation  Barriers  Compliance  board  Electronic  and  Information
Technology (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36CRF Part 1194); unless an agency exception to  this  requirement  exists.   36  CFR  1194  implements
Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.accessboard.gov.

The Contractor shall indicate for each line item in the schedule  whether  each  product  or  service  is  compliant  or  noncompliant  with  the
accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.  Further, the quote must indicate where full details of compliance can be found (e.g.,  vendor’s  website
or other exact location).

C.2   Notices to Bidders

C.2.1 Deviation from Requirements.  Any deviation from the specifications described in this document must  be  explicitly  noted  and  explained.
Offeror(s) may propose additional equipment or alternative solutions but this information must be submitted as  a  separate  document  or  as  an
attachment to the basic response.

C. 2.2      Requirements for Material & Equipment orders.  As a US Government Entity and Department of Homeland, it is  a  requirement  that  all
equipment must be purchased as new, not refurbished and from a US  Domestic  supplier.  All  equipment  must  come  with  a  full  manufacturers’
warranty.

C.2.3 Completion Date of Project.  December 16, 2011.
C.3   Administrative Considerations & Contacts.

C.3.1 Government Representatives

      GSA / FAS Contracting Officer
      Kristine Levine
      Phone 617-680-9829
      kristine.levine@gsa.gov

      GSA / FAS Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR)
      Uttrak Ou
      Phone 617-565-6571,
      Cell    617-595-6773
      uttrak.ou@gsa.gov


C.4   Data/VTC Equipment Project Description.  This project description is to outline the scope of work that is expected within this project for
ERO located in Burlington, MA.  ICE has an approved facilities project to complete the data/VTC package and cabling at their 10 New England
Executive Drive Location.

This project will consist of the following:

    • Training Room 153
         o (1) Ceiling mounted widescreen projector
         o (1) Ceiling recessed motorized screen
         o (2) Ceiling mounted 46” LCD monitors which will have the capability to display the same image as the projector.
         o Laptop connection for VGA w/ audio and HDMI located at the lectern
         o Blu-ray Disc Player located at the lectern
         o Installation of an Owner provided HD satellite TV Tuner with HDMI output located in the rack.
         o A goose neck microphone at the lectern and a wireless wearable lapel microphone.
         o (10) ceiling mounted speakers
         o An overflow audio feed will be routed to the adjacent MAT room.
         o A 5.7”wireless table top touch panel located at the lectern for systems control.
         o (1) New lectern.
         o A portable rolling rack to house all rack mounted equipment.

    • Mat Room 150
         o An auxiliary audio input at a wall plate for a MP3 player or other audio sources.
         o Overflow audio feed from Training Room 153.
         o A wireless wearable lapel microphone.
         o (8) Ceiling mounted speakers.
         o A wall mounted button panel will provide system control.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

    • Fitness Room 145
         o (3) Ceiling mounted 32” LCD HD TVs
         o An auxiliary audio input for a MP3 Player or other audio sources.
         o (14) Ceiling mounted speakers.
         o A wall mounted button panel will provide system control.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

    • Control Room 179 & Holding Rooms 184, 178, & 172
         o (2) wall mounted 32” LCD HD TVs
         o (1) Ceiling mounted 32” LCD HD TV
         o (1) Wall mounted 32” LCD monitor mounted in a tamper proof housing will be located in each of the (3) holding rooms viewing pre-
           recorded media.
         o Installation of an Owner provided HD satellite TV tuner with a component video output located in the rack for each LCD TV located in
           the Control Room and the Processing Area.
         o DVD/VCR combo unit connected to the (3) holding room displays.
         o (1) 5.7” table top touch panel.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

    • Offices 236, 237, 245, 246, & 247
         o (1) Wall mounted 32” LCD TV.
         o Installation of Owner provided HD satellite TV tuner with HDMI output.

    • Break Room 221
         o (1) Wall mounted 42” LCD TV.

    • Conference Rooms 212, 214, & 260
         o (1) Wall mounted 55” LCD TV.
         o Laptop connection for VGA w/ Audio and HDMI.
         o Installation of an Owner provided HD satellite TV tuner with HDMI output.
         o A wall mounted button panel will provide system control.

    • Conference Room 238
         o (1) Wall mounted 55” LCD TV.
         o Laptop connection for VGA w/ Audio and HDMI.
         o Installation of an Owner provided HD satellite TV tuner with HDMI output.
         o Video conference system.
         o An Extron AV Trac system to provide a cable pathway from a wall to under the table across the floor.
         o (1) Polycom HDX 8000 video conference system.
         o (1) Polycom EgleEye HD camera
         o (2) HDX Mic Arrays will be located at the conference table.
         o (1) 5.7” table top touch panel.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

    • Rask Force Room 242
         o (2) Wall mounted 55” LCD monitors.
         o Laptop connection for VGA w/ audio and HDMI located at the lectern
         o Blu-ray Disc Player
         o (2) Owner provided HD satellite TV Tuners with HDMI.
         o An Extron AV Trac system to provide a cable pathway from a wall to under the table across the floor.
         o (6) Ceiling mounted speakers.
         o (1) 5.7” table top touch panel.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

    • Multipurpose Room 257
         o (1) Wall mounted 65” LCD monitor.
         o A ceiling mounted 46” LCD monitor.
         o (2) Laptop connection for VGA w/ Audio and HDMI.
         o Blu-ray Disc Player.
         o Instillation of (2) Owner provided HD satellite TV Tuners with HDMI.
         o (1) 5.7” table top touch panel.
         o A small rack box will house all of the rack mounted equipment.

II.   Evaluation Factors and Basis for Award

A.    Quote Evaluation and Delivery Order Award

A.1   General

A.1.1 Mandatory Acceptability Requirements.  An offer is deemed acceptable when it contains the offeror’s assent to the terms and  conditions  of
the delivery order solicitation.  An offer with exceptions may be deemed unacceptable and rejected.

A.1.2 Source Selection Using the Trade-Off Process.  The Government will select the offer that represents  the  best  value  to  the  Government.
This process permits trade-offs between price and the technical evaluation factors and allows the Government to  accept  other  than  the  lowest
price offer.  The award decision will be based on a comparative assessment of quotes against all evaluation criteria in the  solicitation.   Best
Value will be determined by:

    • The degree to which the offer complies with the requirements of the solicitation.
    • The ability to deliver and install required products, and provide training at the time required by this project.
    • Total project cost

The Government will use the data provided by the offeror in its quote and may use  data  obtained  from  other  sources  during  the  Best  Value
analysis.  The offeror is required to provide complete information notwithstanding that the Government may obtain data from  sources  other  than
the offeror.

A.2   Evaluation Factors.  In determining the award, the following criteria will be used:


         • Technical Solution
         • Past Performance
         • Price

All evaluation factors other than price, when combined, are equal to price.  The Government is concerned with  obtaining  the  most  advantageous
balance between the evaluation factors and cost/price to the Government.  The degree of importance of price could become greater  depending  upon
the equality of the quotes.  If competing quotes are determined to be  essentially  equal,  price  could  become  the  controlling  factor.   The
Government may award a Delivery Order on the basis of initial offers without discussions; therefore, the Offeror’s quote should contain the  best
terms from a technical and price standpoint.

A.2.1 Technical:  The following technical factors will be evaluated:

    • Contractor’s quote contains sufficient detail to prove that the proposed solution meets all DHS ICE requirements.


    • All features of the system and the station equipment are listed and explained.


    • Strength of the warranty.


    • Ability of contractor to meet the desired project completion date of December 16, 2011.


A.2.2 Past Performance.  The Government will evaluate performance of the Offeror on past projects and experience.   Offeror  shall  provide  past
performance narratives for three (3) projects completed within the  last  three  (3)  years  of  similar  size,  scope,  function,  duration  and
complexity to the subject project.  Past performance is the degree of success, in terms of meeting or exceeding  technical,  cost,  schedule  and
quality objectives, and the demonstrated effectiveness of corrective actions taken in dealing with problems encountered on prior  projects.   The
Government will also evaluate the extent of an Offeror’s experience on projects of a similar size, scope, function, duration  and  complexity  as
compared to the work that is required under this solicitation.  From this information, the  Government  determines  an  overall  risk  assessment
regarding the Offeror’s likelihood of success on the proposed  project.   In  the  event  that  an  Offeror  lacks  a  record  of  relevant  past
performance, the Offeror’s past performance may be evaluated neither favorably nor unfavorably.

The Government will consider information submitted by the offeror along with any other relevant and reliable information that the Government  may
obtain from other sources (including information from Government personnel and databases).

A.2.3 Price Evaluation.  Total price to the Government will be evaluated and considered.  The proposed price will be analyzed for  reasonableness
to determine whether it is realistic for the work to be performed; reflects a clear understanding of the requirements;  and  is  consistent  with
the Offeror’s Quote.

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with
additional information included in this notice.  This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and a written
solicitation will not be issued.  This will be a firm fixed price order.  The solicitation number is R1BK70110037 and is issued as a Request for
Quotation (RFQ).  This solicitation and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through FAC 2005-54.  This solicitation is 100%
set aside for small business concerns.  The associated NAICS codes are 334310, Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing, small business size
standard 750 employees and 443112 - Radio, Television, and Other Electronics Stores, small business size standard $25.5 million.  Description of
Work:  See Attachment 1, R1BK70110037 Statement of Work.  Any questions shall be directed to the Contracting Officer Kristine Levine at
kristine.levine@gsa.gov with a copy to uttrak.ou@gsa.gov.

The provision at FAR 52.212-1, Instruction to Offerors Commercial Items (Jun 2008)* applies to this acquisition and is incorporated by
reference. (*(c) Period for acceptance of offers).  The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date
specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.)

The provision at FAR 52.212-2, Evaluation Commercial Items (Jan 1999) applies to this solicitation.  See Attachment1, R1BK70110037 Statement of
Work, paragraph II. Evaluation Factors and Basis for Award.  Delivery requirements include the following: (1) Delivery terms shall be FOB
destination.  Offerors are to provide quotations for all items to be considered responsive.  Only one award will be made in response to this
solicitation.  Multiple awards will not be made.

Offerors shall include a completed copy of the provision at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items (Nov
2011), with its offer and/or verify by the ORCA website.

The clause at FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items (Jun 2010), applies to this acquisition.

The clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Items (Nov 2011), applies to
this acquisition. The following additional FAR clauses are incorporated by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders
applicable to acquisitions of commercial items or components: None

In addition to invoice instructions found in FAR Clause 52.212-4 the following clause entitled “A. Invoicing” will apply to this order:

A.    Invoicing.  Payments are made in accordance with the applicable payment clauses.  All invoices must be submitted through the GSA Finance
Center Internet-based invoice process. The Internet-based invoices procedures are as follows:

         • Obtain an account and password at www.finance.gsa.gov.
         • Select “submit invoice”
         • Select “All POs”
         • Find and Select the ACT# or PDN# you are invoicing against
         • Complete pre-populated form with invoice information (all fields with an * are mandatory fields.
         • Click “continue” when finished
         • Click “submit” and upload all backup material as attachments
         • Upload a copy of your standard Invoice

   a) Invoices must include the Delivery Order ID provided below on the order.

      Delivery Order ID:  R1BK70110037

   b) Invoices must include the Accounting Control Transaction (ACT) number provided below on the order.

      ACT No.:  (From GSA Form 300, Block 4)

   c) In addition to the requirements for a proper invoice specified in the Prompt Payment clause of this contract or order, the following
      information or documentation must be submitted with each invoice:

      Delivery Order No.: (From GSA Form 300, Block 2)

(d)  A proper invoice includes, at a minimum:

           1) Name of the business concern, address, and telephone number
           2) Invoice date
           3) Invoice number
           4) Contract Number
           5) Delivery Order ID
           6) Accounting Control Transaction (ACT) number
           7) Delivery Order Number and any other authorization for delivery of property or services
           8) Item Number, National Stock Number (NSN) or other product identification number, description, price, and quantity of property or
              services actually delivered or rendered
           9) Breakout of costs by CLIN
          10) Shipping and payment terms
          11) Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and complete mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is to be sent.
               The "remit to" address must correspond to the remittance address in the Contract.
          12) Information necessary to enable the Government to make payment by wire transfer shall be furnished in accordance with the Method
              of Payment clause of this Contract
          13) Cumulative amount invoiced from start of delivery order.
          14) Cumulative percent invoiced from start of delivery order.
                                                                 (end of clause)

Contractor must be registered on GSA IT-Solution Shop web site at http://web.itss.gsa.gov in order to receive award.

The due date for receipt of quotations is November 28, 5:00 p.m. EST.  Quotations shall be provided by email to kristine.levine@gsa.gov with a
copy to uttrak.ou@gsa.gov.  Faxed quotations will not be accepted.
