Clarification for Place of Performance:

Pratt & Whitney – East Hartford Customer Training Center

400 Main Street

East Hartford, CT 06108



Q1.  Would you consider a property that is Map Quested at:

Total Travel Estimate:   18 minutes   /   14.76 miles

If they meet or exceed the requirements of the solicitation?



A1.  To allow for consistency and fairness for all, we must stay within the guidelines of the posted requirements.  According to the PWS, Paragraph 1.2, “The hotel must be within 12 miles of the training location at the Pratt and Whitney Facility to allow for optimum use of the students time.”  





Q2.  Will you consider corporate housing units?



A2.  Yes, corporate housing units will be considered.  Evaluations will be followed in accordance with 52.212-2, as stated in the Solicitation.





Q3.  Would the AFSAT Squadron be willing to accept a proposal that includes fully furnished, two-bedroom/two-bathroom apartments rather than single occupancy hotel/motel rooms? The fully furnished two-bedroom/two-bathroom apartments would provide separate sleeping and bathroom quarters with a shared living space and full-sized kitchen area that exceeds the technical requirements listed in the solicitation by offering more space, privacy, security, and amenities than a hotel/motel or extended-stay property for a lower rate. 



A3.  Yes, apartment settings will be acceptable for this solicitation.  However, Polish Officers and Enlisted personnel cannot room together.  If there are any Officer students, they would have to have separate accomodations, which could alter the final rooms needed.  

We do not have a student roster at this time and cannot determine the number ratio.  





Q4.  In regards to the transportation requirements, are you wanting offerers to provide pricing for transportation separately than the room rate, or would you like any fees associated with transportation to be included in the room rate? 



A4.  According to 52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors, the Firm Fixed Prace shall be based on the rates contained in your proposal, including any vollume or spot discounts.  Since award will be based on initial responses, you are encouraged to offer your most advantageous pricing in the initial response.  Contractors are required to complete the schedule of supplies”.

The Description of Supplies are broken down into two CLINs:

0001 Lodging 1 Lot _________

0002 Transportation 1 Lot _________

According to 52.212-2(a), award will be based on the solicitation “most advantageous to the Government, price, and other factors considered.”  A breakdown could allow the Government to review all required factors effectively.





Q5.  How would you like offerers to present their pricing proposal? Would you like one total price for the entire cost of the period of performance, or would you like it broken down into a nightly rate?



A5.  One total price will be fine.  As stated in the solicitation, please include any volume or spot discounts, if applicable.





Q6.  Is it possible to get the hotel and rate that was used for this group in the past?



A6.  The last contract was awarded to Crossroads Hospitality Company, LLC.  Rate information cannot be disclosed.



