"This is to notify you of recent award prohibitions contained in [USDA Forest Service] Fiscal Year 2012/2013 Appropriations Act regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate tax delinquencies.  Under the Appropriations Act, no awards can be made to any corporation (for profit or non-profit) that has a tax delinquency or felony conviction as defined in the Appropriations Act and described in the attached representation.  To comply with these provisions, all offerors are required to return the attached representation to [Robert A. Hinton – e-mail to: frhinton@fs.fed.us].  Please note that if you have a tax delinquency or felony conviction, as defined in the Appropriations Act and described in the attached representation, you are not eligible for award.  If you are ineligible for award because of these prohibitions it is possible that you can regain eligibility for award, but only if the USDA Forest Service suspension and debarring official considers your tax delinquency and/or felony conviction and determines that suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government."





AGAR 452.209-70 REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION   (DEVIATION 2012-01) ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012)



Awards made under this solicitation are subject to the provisions contained sections 433 and 434 in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. No. 112-74), Division E, as amended and/or subsequently enacted, regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate federal tax delinquencies. To comply with these provisions, all offerors must complete paragraph (1) of this representation, and all corporate offerors also must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of this representation.



(b)  The Offeror represents that –



The Offeror is [   ],    is not [   ] (check one)   an entity that has filed articles of incorporation in one of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, or the various territories of the United States including American Samoa, Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Midway Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands.  (Note that this includes both for-profit and non-profit organizations.)



If the Offeror checked “is” above, the Offeror must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of the representation.  If Offeror checked “is not” above, Offeror may leave the remainder of the representation blank.



(i)  The Offeror has [   ],   has not [   ] (check one)  been convicted of a felony criminal violation under Federal or State law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer.  



(ii)  Offeror has [   ],   has not [   ] (check one)   had any officer or agent of Offeror convicted of a felony criminal violation for actions taken on behalf of Offeror under Federal law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer.



The Offeror does [  ],   does not [   ] (check one)   have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.



(End of provision)  





AGAR 452.209 – 71  ASSURANCE REGARDING FELONY CONVICTION OR TAX DELINQUENT STATUS FOR CORPORATE APPLICANTS ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012)



(a)  This award is subject to the provisions contained in sections 433 and 434 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. No. 112-74), Division E, as amended and/or subsequently enacted, regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate federal tax delinquencies. Accordingly, by accepting this award the contractor acknowledges that it – 

(1) does not have a tax delinquency, meaning that it is not subject to any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, and 

(2) has not been convicted (or had an officer or agent acting on its behalf convicted) of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within 24 months preceding the award, unless a suspending and debarring official of the United States Department of Agriculture has considered suspension or debarment of the awardee, or such officer or agent, based on these convictions and/or tax delinquencies and determined that suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government. 

(b) If the awardee fails to comply with these provisions, the Forest Service may terminate this contract for default and may recover any funds the awardee has received in violation of sections 

433 or 434, amended and/or subsequently enacted. 

(End of Clause)



__________________________________________________________

Company Name



_________________________________                                                          ________________

Signature & Title                                                                                                DateUSDA FOREST SERVICE

Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System a.k.a. "Distance Learning Platform" For USDA Forest Service Human Resource Management (HRM) Division

4/30/2013

Prepared By: WO AQM IT Support Branch Pan American Building, Suite 200 101-B Sun Avenue NE, Albuquerque, NM 87109

0

Solicitation Number: AG-7604-S-13-0027

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF 45

633216
2. CONTRACT NO

TBD
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY:

3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE

4. ORDER NUMBER

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

TBD

TBD

AG-7604-S-13-0027
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

05/01/2013
OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME



a. NAME

Robert A. Hinton, Contracting Officer
CODE 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED OR

505-563-7248
SET ASIDE SMALL BUSINESS

05/08/2013 12pm EST
100% FOR
EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

7604

USDA Forest Service WO AQM IT Support Branch Pan American Bldg, Suite 200 101 B Sun Ave, NE Albuquerque, NM 87109
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB: DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED

NAICS:517911
SIZE STANDARD 1500

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS
SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS

8(A)

12. DISCOUNT TERMS: 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) CODE 16. ADMINISTERED BY::

13b. RATING

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB RFP CODE

SEE SCHEDULE

USDA Forest Service Reference PWS
17a CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CODE

7604
FACILITY CODE

Same as Block 9
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY Reference invoice instructions I the Performance Work Statement (PWS). document

7604
CODE

7604

See Invoice Instructions
18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

19. ITEM NO.

Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing Sys. For the USDA Forest Service HRM Division Complete a Separate Price breakdown See Attached Performance Work Statement Note: Please state a breakout for each separate line item to include an excel sheet with formulas for each of the cost elements.
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary ) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

1

LO

$

$TBD

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

$
27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN 1 COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN. ARE ARE ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF OFFER DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

Robert A. Hinton
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) PRESCRIBED BY GSA ­ FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

1

CONTINUATION OF STANDARD FORM 1449

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA 1. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION: All contract administration matters will be handled by the following individuals: a. CONTRACTOR: ______________________ ______________________ ______________________ ______________________

b. GOVERNMENT:

Contracting Officer USDA Forest Service Robert A. Hinton 505-563-7248 WO AQM IT Support Branch 101 B Sun Ave NE Albuquerque, NM 87109

2. CONTRACTOR REMITTANCE ADDRESS: All payments by the Government to the contractor should be mailed to the following address:

3. GOVERNMENT INVOICE ADDRESS: All invoices from the contractor shall be mailed to the following address:

Send Invoices To: Invoices shall be emailed to: FS_CIO_Invoices@fs.fed.us . Subject line shall contain the Contract Number, Vendor Name and Invoice Number. Please CC the COR at: minfante@fs.fed.us
a. Invoices shall be submitted in arrears: Monthly Quarterly Other ____X _ _______ _______

4. Respondents shall indicate their Federal Taxpayer Identification Number: _____________ 5. OFFERORS MUST COMPLETE AND RETURN ALL INFORMATION DESIGNATED IN 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS, PARAGRAPH "b", AND COMPLETE 52.212-3, OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS PRIOR TO THE TIME SPECIFIED IN BLOCK 8 OF SF 1449 IN ORDER TO BE CONSIDERED FOR AWARD. 6. DUNS NUMBER: Please provide the Dun and Bradstreet Number assigned to your firm in the space provided: DUNS# ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___

7. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS: The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the Solicitation numbered and dated as follows: AMENDMENT NUMBER DATE

______________________________ __________________________ 8. Sealed offers for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the address specified in Block 9 of SF 1449, or if hand carried, to the address shown in Block 15, until the date and 2

time specified in Block 8. CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See provision 52.212-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions of this RFP. Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements, in addition to those identified as factors or subfactors. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the solicitation may result in the offeror being ineligible for award. Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and must provide complete supporting rationale. 9. NOTICE: This procurement is being conducted under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) FAR Part 12 Acquisition of Commercial Items and Part 16, Types of Contracts 10. The Government may award a contract on the basis of initial offers received, without discussions. Therefore, each initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost/price and technical standpoint. The Government will award a single aggregate order contingent upon best value and the offeror's ability to meet all requirements.

Please review the following items before mailing your proposal: ___ ___ ___ Have you completed SF 1449 or equivalent? Have you included a complete Price Proposal, and initialed any changes or erasures? Have you included a separate technical proposal? (Note: Offerors who do not submit a complete technical proposal addressing the elements described in FAR 52.212-2, may be determined non-responsive and rejected.) Have you checked required blocks in 52.212-3? Have you signed your offer?

___ ___

The purpose of this procurement is to place an order for Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System, a.k.a. "Distance Learning Platform" for the USDA Forest Service Chief Human Resource Management (HRM) Division. The work will be performing in accordance with the Performance Work Statement entitled "Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System", dated 12 April, 2013. In addition, see line items below for additional information. The provisions of Solicitation Number AG-7604-S-13-0027 are applicable under the order. _____________proposal dated _________, is hereby referenced.

3

SCHEDULE OF SERVICES (Continued from SF-1449, Blocks 19 through 24) SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST

Contractor shall provide all labor, equipment, material, supplies and supervision necessary to complete Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System Support in accordance with the Performance Work Statement, terms, conditions, provisions, and rates listed herein. All terms and condition of this contract shall apply to the resulting task order. In responding to this RFP, it is the contractor's responsibility to provide current, relevant, complete and accurate information in their quotation. Contract Period: Three Years After Date of Award

LINE ITEM 0001

DESCRIPTION

ESTIMATED QUANTITY

UNIT LO

PRICE $

Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System

Contract type: FIRM FIXED PRICE Start Date: TBD Completion Date: TBD Descriptive Data: The contractor shall provide all necessary qualified personnel, services, supervision and all other items necessary to accomplish this task as defined in the Performance Work Statement (PWS) entitled, Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System, a.k.a. "Distance Learning Platform ".
NOTE: Please read the solicitation carefully. In addition to providing price you must submit the technical information requested in FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation ­ Commercial Items. Failure to provide the technical information could result in non-consideration of your proposal. No deviations or substitutions will be made to this order without prior approval from the Contracting Officer. Changes will be issued in writing and signed by the contracting officer. No action on any change unless and until a contract modification is received. One contract will be awarded based on the lowest price technically acceptable. OFFERORS MUST SIGN AGAR 452.209-70 REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION (DEVIATION 2012-01) ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012) AND AGAR 452.209 - 71 ASSURANCE REGARDING FELONY CONVICTION OR TAXDELINQUENT STATUS FOR CORPORATE APPLICANTS ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012). IF OFFEROR DOES NOT SIGN BOTH AGAR CLAUSES THEY WILL NOT BE ELEGIBLE FOR AWARD.

4

USDA Forest Service Human Resource Management (HRM) Division Performance Work Statement (PWS) For Audio Visual Phase II Video Conferencing System a.k.a. "Distance Learning Platform"

5

PART 1 Statement of Requirements 1.0 Description of Services/Introduction: The contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, supervision, and other items and nonpersonal services necessary to perform installation of a complete software-based enterprise level video streaming and capture technology to the existing Audio Visual (AV) system as defined in this Performance Work Statement located at 4000 Masthead Ave. NE, Albuquerque NM 87109. The contractor shall perform to the standards in accordance with the Performance Work Statement, terms, conditions, and provisions listed herein. This system will allow Forest Service (FS) the ability to web cast presentations inside and outside the organization. Once integrated, the system is "plug and play" enabling facilitators to support live presentations with a push of a button. The system shall be capable of streaming real-time or on-demand allowing up to one hundred (100) attendees to participate online. The system must be compatible with the existing Polycom Video Conferencing System making it even more scalable to support FS internal and external video conferencing needs. Furthermore, the system must have the capability to interface with the existing Crestron control system. Through programming, recording, quick edits and rendering of presentations that are simplified for the users. Facilitators should have the ability to easily poll, track participants' progress, or attendance real time, with all reports customizable and shown in a dashboard format. FS also requires a Mobile Video Conferencing System to increase local capability and flexibility in existing facility. The contractor shall provide and install a portable Polycom Video Teleconferencing (VTC) System. The Portable unit will have one (1) 42" flat panel display in casters for the unit to be pushed around from room to room. The unit's remote control will be used to select and control the VTC System. The contractor shall provide all the necessary cabling to integrate the system into the room's Audio/Video Systems, including ceiling mounted microphones to support audio for the video conferencing systems. FS requires Lync and LDAP interface to allow participants remote access to presentations via their personal computer. In addition, LDAP authentication will accommodate any required security protocols administered by FS, and allow FS to use the current directory via Microsoft Office Outlook. 1.1 Background and Objectives: Currently, FS does not have the capability to live stream training courses to the desktop level of employees in Regions, Stations, and Areas (R/S/As). The lack of an enterprise level video streaming and capture technology drives up travel and training related expenses, while also creating significant lost time due to employees traveling to a central training facility in Albuquerque, NM. The facility, FS Human Resource Management located at 4000 Masthead Ave NE contains three training rooms prewired for video-tele-conference equipment, rooms 119A, 127, and 131. One system will be considered a hard or permanent installation in room 119A, and the other system shall be portable, capable of integration to either of the two rooms 127 or 131, allowing optimum flexibility for room scheduling and class delivery. The desired system shall be a "plug and play" solution with adequate training on how to use the system in delivery of training courses, capture the course content and conversion to required 508 compliance standards for access to people with disabilities. 1.2 Scope: The contractor shall provide all installation services of the technology solution and all training of FS staff selected as primary system operators to include:  System Engineering, comprising of: Preparation of system functional interconnection diagram 6



Facility and equipment location drawing Project Coordination, including meetings with the client's technical representatives and project coordination including: System implementation monitoring Schedule project and installation team oversight Equipment staging Assure final punch-list items are completed Field Labor, including: Pulling and bundling cables Terminating of all cables Labeling all cables Mounting and terminating computer interfaces Installing structural systems for multimedia equipment Program control system Adjusting and balancing audio settings Assure that the installed systems functions as proposed Site clean-up and rubbish disposal Provide end-user training

             

1.3 Services Required: The contractor shall provide and install a complete software-based enterprise level video streaming and capture technology to the existing AV system.

This system will allow FS the ability to web cast presentations inside and outside the organization. Once integrated, the system is "plug and play" enabling facilitators to support live presentations with a push of a button. The system is capable of streaming real-time or on-demand allowing attendees to participate at their convenience online. The system must be compatible with the Polycom Video Conferencing System currently installed, making it scalable to support FS internal and external video conferencing needs. Furthermore, the system must be capable of interfacing with the Crestron control system. Through programming, recording, quick edits and rendering of presentations are simplified for the users. Last, reporting is easy with instantaneous feedback. Facilitators must be able to easily poll, track participants' progress or attendance real time. All reports are customizable and shown as dashboard format. 1.4 Quality Requirements 1.4.1 Quality Control (QC): The contractor shall develop and maintain an effective quality control program to ensure services are performed in accordance with this PWS. The contractor shall develop and implement procedures to identify, prevent, and ensure 7

non-recurrence of defective services. The contractor's quality control program is the means by which he assures himself that his work complies with the requirement of the contract. As a minimum, the contractor shall develop quality control procedures that address the areas identified in Technical Exhibit 1, "Performance Requirements Summary". After government acceptance of the contractor's proposed quality control plan the contractor shall receive the contracting officer's acceptance in writing of any p roposed change to his QC system. 1.4.2 Quality Assurance: The government shall evaluate the contractor's performance under this contract in accordance with the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). This plan is primarily focused on what the Government must do to ensure that the contractor has performed in accordance with the performance standards. It defines how the performance standards will be applied, the frequency of surveillance, and the minimum acceptable defect rate(s). 1.4.3 Government Remedies: The contracting officer shall follow FAR 52.212-4, "Contract Terms and ConditionsCommercial Items" or 52.246-4, "Inspection of Services-Fixed Price" for contractor's failure to perform satisfactory services or failure to correct non-conforming services. 1.5 Recognized Holidays: The contractor is not required to perform services on the Holidays listed. New Year's Day Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday President's Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day

1.6 Hours of Operation/Place of Performance: The contractor is responsible for providing services between the hours of 8 am and 5 pm MST, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays or when the Government facility is closed due to local or national emergencies, administrative closings, or similar Government directed facility closings. The Contractor must at all times maintain an adequate work force for the uninterrupted performance of all tasks defined within this statement of work when the Government facility is not closed for the above reasons. When hiring personnel, the Contractor shall keep in mind that the stability and continuity of the work force are essential. 1.7 Security Requirements: The contractor shall follow established security procedures for access to building 4000. These include signing into the visitor log at the beginning of each work shift and signing out at the end of the workday. Doors to the building should not be propped open except for movement of equipment into or out of the facility during the installation process. 1.7.1 PHYSICAL Security. The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property provided for contractor use. At the close of each work period, government facilities, equipment, and materials shall be secured in the designated room. 1.7.1.1 Key Control. The Contractor shall establish and implement methods of making sure all keys/key cards issued to the Contractor by the Government are not lost or misplaced and are not used by unauthorized persons. The Contractor shall prohibit the use of Government issued keys/key cards by any persons other than the Contractor's employees. The Contractor shall prohibit the opening of locked areas by Contractor employees to permit entrance of persons other than Contractor employees engaged in the performance of assigned work in those areas, or personnel authorized entrance by the Contracting Officer. In the event keys, other than master keys, are lost or duplicated, the Contractor shall, upon direction of the Contracting Officer, re-key or replace the affected lock or locks; however, the Government, at its option, may replace the affected lock or locks or perform re-keying. When the replacement of locks or re-keying is performed by the Government, the total cost of re-keying or the replacement of the lock or locks shall be deducted from the monthly payment due the Contractor. In the event a master key is lost or duplicated, all locks and keys for that system shall be replaced by the Government and the total cost deducted from the monthly payment due the Contractor. By accepting this contract/agreement, the Contractor/Cooperator and other external organizations (hereafter called Contractor) providing Information Technology (IT) services to the US Forest Service (FS) agrees to comply with the applicable IT security policy as outlined in this document. The Contractor and other external organizations will be responsible for IT security for all systems connected to the FS network or operated by the Contractor and other external organizations for the FS, regardless of location. This clause is applicable to all or any part of the contract 8

that includes IT resources or services in which the Contractor and other external organizations must have physical or electronic access to FS sensitive information that directly support the mission of the FS. The term 'information technology', as used in this clause, means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes both major applications and general support systems as defined by OMB Circular A-130. The Contractor shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of work under this task. The Contractor shall also protect all unclassified Government data, equipment, etc., by treating information as sensitive business, confidential information, controlling and limiting access to the information, and ensuring the data and equipment are secured within their facility. The Contractor or other external organization will not publish or disclose in any manner, without the FS Contracting Officer's written consent, the details of any programs, documentation, data, or safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor or other external organization under this Contract or otherwise provided by the Government. Contractor may be required to sign non-disclosure or other appropriate security agreements. A written agreement between the FS and any contractors and other external organizations will be entered into before FS data and information otherwise exempt from public disclosure may be disclosed to the contractors and other external organizations. The contractor and other external organizations will agree to establish and follow security precautions considered by the FS to be necessary to ensure proper handling of data and information. As may be identified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor agrees that:  The draft and final deliverables and all associated working papers and other materials deemed relevant by the COTR that have been generated by the Contractor in the performance of this contract are the property of the U.S. Government and must be submitted to the COTR at the conclusion of the tasks. All documents produced for this project are the property of the U.S. Government and cannot be reproduced or retained by the Contractor.



To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Government data, the Contractor will afford the Government access to the Contractor's or other external organization's facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases. The Contractor will cooperate with Federal agencies and their officially credentialed representatives during official inspections or investigations concerning the protection of FS information. Cooperation may include providing relevant documentation showing proof of compliance with federal and agency requirements, and rendering other assistance as deemed necessary. If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either the Government or the Contractor or other external organization, or if existing safeguards have ceased to function, the discoverer will immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party. The Contractor will report real or suspected incidents or violations to the FS Computer Incident Response Team (CIRT), by e-mail, at CIRT@fs.fed.us. The Contractor shall insert these clauses in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. Failure to comply with said requirements will constitute cause for termination. The Contractor Agrees To ­ (a) Comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (the Act) and the agency rules and regulations issued under the Act in the design, development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function when the contract specifically identifies-- (i) The systems of records; and (ii) The design, development, or operation work that the contractor is to perform; (b) Include the Act notification contained in this contract in every solicitation and resulting subcontract and in every subcontract awarded without a solicitation, when the work statement in the proposed subcontract requires the redesign, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals that is subject to the Act; and 9

(c) Include this clause, including this paragraph (3), in all subcontracts awarded under this contract which requires the design, development, or operation of such a system of records. In the event of violations of the Act, a civil action may be brought against the agency involved when the violation concerns the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, and criminal penalties may be imposed upon the officers or employees of the agency when the violation concerns the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function. For purposes of the Act, when the contract is for the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, the Contractor is considered to be an employee of the agency. Definitions of the clause: (a) "Operation of a system of records," as used in this clause, means performance of any of the activities associated with maintaining the system of records, including the collection, use, and dissemination of records. (b) "Record," as used in this clause, means any item, collection, or grouping of inf ormation about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the person's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or o ther identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint or voiceprint or a photograph. (c) "System of records on individuals," as used in this clause, means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. The contractors and other external organizations will ensure that the following banner is displayed on all FS systems that contain Privacy Act information operated by the contractors and other external organizations prior to allowing anyone access to the system: "This system contains information protected under the provisions of the privacy act of 1974 (public la w 93-579). Any privacy information displayed on the screen or printed must be protected from unauthorized disclosure. Employees who violate privacy safeguards may be subject to disciplinary actions, a fine of up to $5,000, or both." IT Security Training: The Contractor and other external organizations will ensure that its employees performing under this contract fulfill all Forest Service requirements for mandatory security awareness and role-based advanced security training in accordance with OMB Circular A-130, FISMA, and NIST requirements, and sign all applicable FS statements of responsibilities. Background Investigations: All non-government employees with unescorted access to FS facilities, computer systems and/or FS information must have background investigations commensurate with the level of risk and magnitude of loss or harm. The FS will determine the level of background investigation and position classification needed. Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel: The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring compliance by its employees with all applicable federal regulations, to include those of GSA, NIST, USDA, FS and HSPD-12. Contractors and their employees are subject to all Federal laws applicable to Government installations and are under the jurisdiction of the Federal Protective Service (FPS). The Contracting Officer Representatives (CORs; also known as Contracting Officer Technical Representatives), or other designated program/project officers, in conjunction with the FS HCM HSPD-12 staff, will assist the Contractor in processing the required Security Background Investigations/Clearances. (1) The contractor shall comply with the personal identity verification (PIV) policies and procedures established by Department of Agriculture (USDA) Directives 3800 series. (2) Should the results of the PIV process require the exclusion of a contractor's employee, the contracting officer will notify the contractor in writing. (3) The contractor must appoint a representative to manage this activity and to maintain a list of employees eligible for a USDA PIV ID Badge required for performance of the work. 10

(4) The responsibility of maintaining a sufficient workforce remains with the contractor. Employees may be barred by the Government from performance of the work should they be found ineligible or to have lost eligibility for a USDA PIV ID Badge. Failure to maintain a sufficient workforce of employees eligible for a USDA PIV ID Badge may be grounds for termination of the contract. (5) The contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have access to a federally-controlled facility or information system. (6) The PIV Sponsor for this contract is the contracting officer representative (COR), unless otherwise specified in this contract. The PIV Sponsor will be available to receive contractor identity information from 8:00 am to 4:30 pm, Monday through Friday, at 200 WT Weaver Boulevard, Asheville, NC. The Government shall notify the contractor if there is a change in the PIV Sponsor, the office address, or the office hours for registration. (7) At this time, the Government will pay for and process all required security investigations/clearances, except as identified differently within this clause. (8) The Contractor should be aware of any of its employees possibly having had a background investigation through another government agency. The investigation that was conducted, if verifiable by the FS HSPD-12 staff and, if it was completed within the last 5 years, can be accepted by the Government in lieu of a background check. (9) The Contractor shall comply with any facility badge requirements for the issuance of building access, badges, etc.:  Ensure that each of the Contractor's employees has b een issued either a temporary or permanent badge from the Government. A permanent badge will not be issued until the security questionnaire has been completed and favorably reviewed. Temporary or visitor badges will be provided for persons who are identified as having an infrequent or temporary legitimate business need for access to the site. As noted above, periods that exceed 180 days will require a permanent badge. The badge must be worn at all times while in the facility. It must be displayed above the waist. The individual will retain possession of the badge as long as continued admittance to the site is needed. Ensure the safekeeping, wearing, and visibility of Government furnished badges. Immediately return all badges and permits to the Government when such need ceases to exist. The Contractor shall comply with any facility security requirements for access to the facility. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable rules governing parking at USDA locations.

  (10) (11)

Secure Coding Skills: Contractor certifies that at least one member of each programming team working on any code (including C, Java, .Net, ASP.NET, Visual Basic) to be delivered to the Forest Service has earned the Global Information Assurance Certification for Secured Software Programming or equivalent. Source code testing, binary code testing, application scanning, and penetration testing: At least one week prior to delivery of any code due under this contract, Contractor will deliver to the COTR the following reports covering all code that will be delivered: A. Source code testing results showing all potential security flaws identified by at least one of the commercial source code testing tools approved by the Office of the Chief Information Officer of USDA. On the report, the contractor will highlight all vulnerabilities rated "critical" and "high". The contractor must then correct the vulnerabilities, resend the code and ensure delivered source code health. B. For web-applications, web application scanning test results showing all potential security flaws identified by at least one of the commercial web application scanning tools approved by the Office of the Chief Information Officer of USDA. On the report, the contractor will highlight all vulnerabilities rated "c ritical" and "high". C. For all applications: application penetration results. 11

Copyright Management and Responsibility: By delivering applications or programming code to the Federal Government, the vendor or Contractor certifies that they have the proper authority to transfer the property and will defend the government against copyright or other lawsuit resulting from the application or programming delivered.

NOTE: No keys issued to the Contractor by the Government shall be duplicated. The Contractor shall develop procedures covering key control that shall be included in the Quality Control Plan. Such procedures shall include turn-in of any issued keys by personnel who no longer require access to locked areas. The Contractor shall immediately report any occurrences of lost or duplicate keys/key cards to the Contracting Officer. 1.8 Conservation of Utilities. The contractor shall instruct employees in utilities conservation practices. The contractor shall be responsible for operating under conditions that preclude the waste of utilities in work areas. This includes use of electrical power and turning off the water faucets or valves after use. 1.9 Period of Performance Three Years After Receipt of Award 1.10 Post Award Conference/Periodic Progress Meetings: The Contractor agrees to attend any post award conference convened by the contracting activity or contract administration office in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 42.5. The contracting officer, Contracting Officers Representative (COR), and other Government personnel, as appropriate, may meet periodically with the contractor to review the contractor's performance. At these meetings the contracting officer will apprise the contractor of how the government views the contractor's performance and the contractor will apprise the Government of problems, if any, being experienced. Appropriate action shall be taken to resolve outstanding issues. These meetings shall be at no additional cost to the government. 1.11 Contracting Officer Representative (COR): The (COR) is identified below: TBD The COR monitors all technical aspects of the contract and assists in contract administration. The COR is authorized to perform the following functions: assure that the Contractor performs the technical requirements of the contract: perform inspections necessary in connection with contract performance: maintain written and oral communications with the Contractor concerning technical aspects of the contract: issue written interpretations of technical requirements to the Contracting Officer, including Government drawings, designs, specifications: monitor Contractor's performance and notifies both the Contracting Officer and Contractor of any deficiencies; coordinate availability of government furnished property, and provide site entry of Contractor personnel. A letter of designation issued to the COR, a copy of which is sent to the Contractor, states the responsibilities and limitations of the COR, especially with regard to changes in cost or price, estimates or changes in delivery dates. The COR is not authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of the resulting contract or order.

12

1.12 Contractor Manager: The contractor shall provide a contractor manager or lead who shall be responsible for the performance of the work. The name of this person and an alternate who shall act for the contractor when the manager is absent shall be designated in writing to the contracting officer. The contractor manager or alternate shall have full authority to act for the contractor on all contract matters relating to daily operation of this contract. 1.13 Identification of Contractor Employees: All contract personnel attending meetings, answering Government telephones, and working in other situations where their contractor status is not obvious to third parties are required to identify themselves as such to avoid creating an impression in the minds of members of the public that they are Government officials. They must also ensure that all documents or reports produced by contractors are suitably marked as contractor products or that contractor participation is appropriately disclosed. Contractor personnel will be issued visitors badges while on premises to identify them as guests in the facility. 1.14 Payment Procedures ­ Invoice and Payments The Contractor shall invoice monthly by Objective Area number, including labor categories and hours worked for labor hour tasks. Ensure each Objective Area is properly annotated/detailed on all invoices. Invoices should be forwarded to the following address: FS_CIO_Invoices@fs.fed.us. On the subject line please add the following: Contract No., Vendor name & Invoice No. Invoices shall clearly identify travel costs (no profit or fee). The Contractor shall also retain supporting documentation for per diem paid to employees as evidence of actual payments. cc: email to the COR.

13

PART 2 DEFINITIONS & ACRONYMS PWS ­ Performance Work Statement Contracting Officer's Representative (COR): A representative from the requiring activity assigned by the Contracting Officer to perform surveillance and to act as liaison to the contractor Defective Service. A service output that does not meet the standard of performance associated with it in the Performance Work Statement. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). An organized written document specifying the surveillance methodology to be used for surveillance of contractor performance. Quality Control. Those actions taken by a contractor to control the performance of services so that they meet the requirements of the PWS. Quality Assurance. Those actions taken by the government to assure services meet the requirements of the Performance Work Statement.

PART 3 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND SERVICES

3.1 GENERAL: The government shall provide, the facilities, equipment, materials, and/or services listed below. 3.2 Equipment: The Government will provide : None 3.3 Services: 3.3.1 Utilities. All utilities in the facility will be available for the contractor's use in performance of duties outlined in this PWS. The Contractor shall instruct employees in utilities conservation practices. The contractor shall be responsible for operating under conditions that preclude the waste of utilities. 3.4 Facilities: The Government will furnish the necessary workspace for the contractor staff to provide the support outlined in this PWS to include access to the existing Crestron AV system control room.

PART 4 CONTRACTOR FURNISHED ITEMS AND SERVICES 4.1 General: Except for those items specifically stated to be government furnished in Part 3, the contractor shall furnish everything required to perform this PWS. 4.2 Contractor-Furnished Items:        All equipment, wire, and accessories required for a fully functional audio and visual system. Non-union labor associated with turnkey engineering, installation, programming, testing and training. Documentation package including as-built system CAD diagrams and Operation & Maintenance manuals. Coordination and cooperation with the construction team in regards to installing the system. Repairs of damages as caused by the installation of the audio visual installation. One year warranty coverage of all materials and craftsmanship. User training on system operation. 14

 

Where applicable, the owner's architect will provide contractor's engineering department with a ll required architectural floor, reflected ceiling, building elevation, and section plans in Auto Cad format at no charge to contractor. Software licensing ­ Where applicable, contractor will provide access to source code written specifically for the operation of the control systems. This will be provided under a licensing agreement limiting the duplication and distribution of software written by contractor for the specific use within the systems installed by contractor.

TECHNICAL EXHIBIT 1 Performance Requirements Summary PERFORMANCE STANDARDS 1. 2. 3. 4. Contractor shall provide a one year service agreement to respond, on site, to hardware and software malfunctions within 24 hours of notification Must respond to customer requests for technical support within two hours of notification to acknowledge system malfunctions and communicate an expected response time. Hardware malfunctions should be resolved within 48 hours of notification. Repairs requiring factory returns of components shall be expedited to prevent outages in excess of 72 hours. TECHNICAL EXHIBIT 2 DELIVERABLES SCHEDULE # of Copies Deliverable 1.3 Frequency WITHIN THREE (3)
DAYS OF CONTRACT AWARD, CONTRACTOR SHALL SCHEDULE MEETING WITH FS TO DEVELOP AND COORDINATE INSTALLATION PLAN

Medium/Format EMAIL TO FS
PROGRAM MANAGER (PM)

Submit To/Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) FS/PM JOHN PERREAULT
JPPERREAULT@FS.F ED.US

505.944.8122

WITHIN TWO WEEKS,
INSTALLATION PLAN AGREED UPON AND SCHEDULED

EMAIL TO FS PM

FS/PM JOHN PERREAULT
JPPERREAULT@FS.F ED.US

505.944.8122

Jerry Pearson Contracting Officer Representative Phone: (505) 563-9517 Email: jpearson@fs.fed.us Robert A. Hinton Contracting Officer Phone: (505) 563-7248 Email: rhinton@fs.fed.us
15

52.203-3 52.204-7 52.247-15 52.247-34

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Gratuities Central Contractor Registration Contractor Responsibility for Loading and Unloading F.O.B. Destination CONTRACT CLAUSES

APR 1984 DEC 2012 ARP 1984

52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show -(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing.

16

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. 17

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 10129, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to-GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by? (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS +4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://www.fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

18

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. (End of Provision)

19

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation" means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000 -9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- 20

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 21

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ___ is, ___ is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ___ is, ___ is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ___ is a women-owned business concern. (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] (i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ___ is, ___ is not an emerging small business. 22

(ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or (B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Number of Employees Average Annual Gross Revenues __ 50 or fewer __ $1 million or less __ 51­100 __ $1,000,001­$2 million __ 101­250 __ $2,000,001­$3.5 million __ 251­500 __ $3,500,001­$5 million __ 501­750 __ $5,000,001­$10 million __ 751­1,000 __ $10,000,001­$17 million __ Over 1,000 __ Over $17 million

(9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It ___ is, ___ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ___ has, ___ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- 23

(i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -- (i) It ___ has, ___ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It ___ has, ___ has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -- (i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ___ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ 24

______________

_________________

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 25

(2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________

[List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. ______________ ______________ ______________ Country of Origin _________________ _________________ _________________

[List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. ______________ Country of Origin _________________ 26

______________ ______________

_________________ _________________

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) ___ Are, ___ are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) ___ Have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) ___ Are, ___ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) ___ Have, ___ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 27

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product ___________________ ___________________ Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ___ In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ___ Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations;

28

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ___ does ___ does not certify that -- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies -- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ___ TIN: ________________________________. ___ TIN has been applied for. ___ TIN is not required because: ___ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 29

___ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ___ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ___ Sole proprietorship; ___ Partnership; ___ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ___ Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ___ Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ___ Foreign government; ___ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ___ Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. ___ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ___ Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874 (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR 9.108). (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one. (End of provision)

52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2010) (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights-- (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and \ 30

(2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include-- (i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

31

(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.-- (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall -- (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-- (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest.

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the 32

interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-- (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-- (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of 33

the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. (3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. (9) The specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any 34

liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain regis tered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-ofname agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (End of clause) ADDENDUM to FAR 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items 52.204-9 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (SEPT 2007) (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. (End of clause)

FAR 52.216-18 ORDERING (OCT 1995) (a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from __________ through ____________ [insert dates]. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. 35

(c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of clause) FAR 52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995) (a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than _____________ [insert dollar figure or quantity], the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor -- (1) Any order for a single item in excess of _____________ [insert dollar figure or quantity]; (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of ______________ [insert dollar figure or quantity]; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within _____________ days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within _____ days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of clause) FAR 52.216-21 REQUIREMENTS (OCT 1995) (a) This is a requirements contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies or services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. Except as this contract may otherwise provide, if the Government's requirements do not result in orders in the quantities described as "estimated'' or "maximum" in the Schedule, that fact shall not constitute the basis for an equitable price adjustment. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. Subject to any limitations in the Order Limitations clause or elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish to the Government all supplies or services specified in the Schedule and called for by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (c) Except as this contract otherwise provides, the Government shall order from the Contractor all the supplies or services specified in the Schedule that are required to be purchased by the Government activity or activities specified in the Schedule. (d) The Government is not required to purchase from the Contractor requirements in excess of any limit on total orders under this contract. (e) If the Government urgently requires delivery of any quantity of an item before the earliest date that delivery may be specified under this contract, and if the Contractor will not accept an order providing for the accelerated delivery, the Government may acquire the urgently required goods or services from another source. 36

(f) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _________________ [insert date].

(End of clause) FAR 52.216-22 INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995) (a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _______________ [insert date]. (End of clause) 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days before contract expiration. (End of Clause) 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within _____ [insert the period of time within which the Contracting Officer may exercise the option]; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least _____ days [60 days unless a different number of days is inserted] before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed ___________ (months)(years). (End of Clause)

37

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2010) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] [N/A] (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). [N/A] (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). [N/A] (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) [N/A] (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). [N/A] (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). [N/A] (6) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a). [N/A] (7) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). [N/A] (8) [Reserved] [N/A] (9)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. 38

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6. [N/A] (10)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. [N/A] (11) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). [N/A] (12)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. [N/A] (13) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). [N/A] (14) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). [N/A] (15)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. [N/A] (16) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). [N/A] (17) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). [N/A] (18) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). [N/A] (19) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Representation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). [X] (20) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). [X] (21) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). [X] (22) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). [X] (23) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). [N/A] (24) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 39

[X] (25) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). [N/A] (26) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). [N/A] (27) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) [N/A] (28)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) [N/A] (29) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). [N/A] (30)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (31) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). [X] (32)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. [N/A] (33) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). [X] (34) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). [N/A] (35) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). [N/A] (36) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). [N/A] (37) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

40

[N/A] (38) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). [X] (39) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). [N/A] (40) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). [N/A] (41) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). [N/A] (42) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). [N/A] (43)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] [N/A] (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). [N/A] (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). [N/A] (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). [N/A] (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). [N/A] (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). [X] (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services -- Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). [N/A] (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). [N/A] (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. 41

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transaction s related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) [Reserved] (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

42

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain ServicesRequirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)

43

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS ADDENDUM to FAR 52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors-- Commercial Items (Jun 2008) 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984) The Government contemplates award of a Firm-Fixed-Price contract resulting from this solicitation. (End of provision) 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: Hand-Carried Address: USDA Forest Service WO AQM IT Support Branch 101 B Sun Ave, NE Albuquerque, NM 87109 Mailing Address: USDA Forest Service WO AQM IT Support Branch 101 B Sun Ave, NE Albuquerque, NM 87109

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision) 452.204-70 INQUIRIES (FEB 1988) Inquiries and all correspondence concerning this solicitation should be submitted in writing to the Contracting Officer. Offerors should contact only the Contracting Officer issuing the solicitation about any aspect of this requirement prior to contract award. (End of provision) AGAR 452.209-70 REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION (DEVIATION 2012-01) ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012) (a) Awards made under this solicitation are subject to the provisions contained sections 433 and 434 in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. No. 112-74), Division E, as amended and/or subsequently enacted, regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate federal tax delinquencies. To comply with these provisions, all offerors must complete paragraph (1) of this representation, and all corporate offerors also must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of this representation. (b) The Offeror represents that ­ (1) The Offeror is [ ], is not [ ] (check one) an entity that has filed articles of incorporation in one of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, or the various territories of the United States including American 44

Samoa, Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Midway Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands. (Note that this includes both forprofit and non-profit organizations.) If the Offeror checked "is" above, the Offeror must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of the representation. If Offeror checked "is not" above, Offeror may leave the remainder of the representation blank. (2) (i) The Offeror has [ ], has not [ ] (check one) been convicted of a felony criminal violation under Federal or State law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer. (ii) Offeror has [ ], has not [ ] (check one) had any officer or agent of Offeror convicted of a felony criminal violation for actions taken on behalf of Offeror under Federal law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer. (3) The Offeror does [ ], does not [ ] (check one) have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability. (End of provision) AGAR 452.209 ­ 71 ASSURANCE REGARDING FELONY CONVICTION OR TAX DELINQUENT STATUS FOR CORPORATE APPLICANTS ALTERNATE 1 (FEB 2012) (a) This award is subject to the provisions contained in sections 433 and 434 of the Consolidated

Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. No. 112-74), Division E, as amended and/or subsequently enacted, regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate federal tax delinquencies. Accordingly, by accepting this award the contractor acknowledges that it ­ (1) does not have a tax delinquency, meaning that it is not subject to any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, and (2) has not been convicted (or had an officer or agent acting on its behalf convicted) of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within 24 months preceding the award, unless a suspending and debarring official of the United States Department of Agriculture has considered suspension or debarment of the awardee, or such officer or agent, based on these convictions and/or tax delinquencies and determined that suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government. (b) If the awardee fails to comply with these provisions, the Forest Service may terminate this contract for default and may recover any funds the awardee has received in violation of sections 433 or 434, amended and/or subsequently enacted. (End of Clause)
__________________________________________________________ Company Name _________________________________ Signature & Title ________________ Date

45

