

                                                             STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)


Title: Accessible Voting Systems: Usability Performance Test Development

I. Background Information

Enacted by Congress in October 2002, the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) legislation gives the Commerce Department's National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) a key role in helping realize nationwide improvements in voting systems.  NIST's Information Technology
Laboratory (ITL) is coordinating the agency's HAVA efforts through its expertise in areas such as computer security, laboratory accreditation
procedures, and usability.

The HAVA created an Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to oversee voting standards work. Reporting to the EAC is the Technical Guidelines
Development Committee (TGDC), which makes recommendations on voluntary standards and guidelines related to voting equipment.

NIST is providing technical and administrative support to the TGDC.  The EAC adopted a new set of Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG) in
December 2005.  The EAC asked the TGDC and NIST to develop a more comprehensive and re-organized version of the VVSG.  A complete draft of this
updated version was delivered to the EAC in the summer of 2007.

The TGDC has directed NIST to develop usability performance-based requirements in addition to design requirements.  Some of these usability
performance requirements for the voter interface will take the form of benchmarks based on the results of research, which have produced
usability metrics, a test protocol, a standard test ballot, and a controlled set of test participants.   Initial work at NIST has shown that
this test protocol, the NIST Voting Performance Protocol (VPP) is a valid usability test and is repeatable.  The NIST VPP is intended to be a
repeatable, controlled experiment. The goal is not primarily to provide a “realistic” measure of voting behavior, but rather to isolate and
measure the relative usability effect of various voting systems – and this requires that all other potential variables be held as constant as
possible.)  Finally, it is important to note that the goal of the benchmarks is to discriminate among voting systems to identify those systems
with poor usability.  The NIST VPP and the derived benchmarks are intended for use by voting system tests laboratories to certify systems as
meeting the requirements in the VVSG.

Other pass/fail performance tests for usability and accessibility in the form of tightly controlled usability tests are also under development.
 The benchmark tests are intended to be applied to all voting systems, including accessible systems.  Preliminary investigations of the
accessible systems have uncovered additional issues specific to voters with disabilities which point out the need to look more carefully at
these systems and how they are tested.

For additional background information, see:
   1. http://vote.nist.gov
   2. http://vote.nist.gov/PublicHearingsandMeetings.html, especially the March and May 2007 Plenary meetings for the Draft Voluntary Voting
      System Guidelines and the HFP presentations.
   3. "NIST Special Publication 500-256, Improving the Usability and Accessibility of Voting Systems and Products".
      http://www.nist.gov/itl/vote/upload/FinalHumanFactorsReport5-04.pdf
   4. Whitney Quesenbery et al, "Defining a Summative Usability Test for Voting Systems", Usability Professions Association, September 2004.
      http://www.upassoc.org/upa_projects/voting_and_usability/documents/voting_summative_test.pdf
   5. NIST preliminary report on “User-Based Conformance Test for the Usability of Voting Equipment”, http://vote.nist.gov/032906User-
      BasedConfTesting3-10-06.doc
   6. NIST preliminary report on “Human Performance Metrics for Voting Equipment”, http://www.nist.gov/itl/vote/upload/032906performance-metrics3-
      10-06.pdf



II. Objective of this Procurement

For the most part, voting systems examined thus far were NOT designated as accessible voting systems.  Accessible voting systems must meet both
the usability requirements and the accessibility requirements of the VVSG.  HAVA mandates one such system per polling place.  However, it is
very important that the accessible systems for voters with disabilities also meet the benchmarks and to understand what other usability
performance issues occur with these systems.  NIST has some preliminary data about performance, but there are many gaps.

The overall objective of this procurement is to obtain Contractor assistance to gather additional data on the usability performance of
accessible systems using the NIST VPP and other methods and to determine what changes, to ensure that the VVSG has testable usability
performance requirements for accessible voting systems.

The Contractor shall accomplish the following:


    • Identify usability performance tests for accessible voting systems for the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG).
    • Design the protocols for usability performance tests using the VPP where possible.
    • Pilot test and collect data with tests participants with a range of different disabilities
    • Analyze the usability performance data to determine the potential of the performance tests for VVSG conformance tests.
    • Identify future research to further enhance the usability performance requirements for accessible voting systems.


III. Scope of Work

The Contractor shall perform usability testing research to support the development of performance requirements for accessible voting systems.
The Contractor shall provide testing sites and participants for the usability testing and associated data collection.  The Contractor shall
provide detailed documentation of the tests, data collected, and statistical analysis.
IV. Specific Tasks/Deliverables

The Contractor shall provide all labor, supervision, materials, equipment, and facilities (unless otherwise stated herein) to complete the
following tasks:

   1. Identify potential usability performance tests for accessible voting for the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG).

   2. Design, pilot test, and analyze usability performance tests on accessible voting systems identified in Task 1 to determine their potential
      for VVSG conformance tests.

   3. Identify issues and future research to further enhance the usability performance tests for accessible voting systems.

These tasks shall be implemented as follows:

Task 1: The Contractor shall identify potential usability performance tests for accessible voting systems for the Voluntary Voting System
Guidelines (VVSG).

Within this task, the Contractor shall:

      (a) Identify gaps in performance testing of accessible voting systems and potential usability tests to address those gaps.


      (b) Identify which of the potential usability tests to develop further and produce and develop a plan for executing the plan based on the
      findings in (a) and discussions with the NIST Technical Information Contact (TIC).


Work with NIST TIC to determine Human Subject Studies or Paperwork Reduction Act Requirements.
Task 1 Deliverables:
   a) Report delivered to the TIC no later than 2 months after award on the contractor’s findings from Task 1.


Task 2: The contractor shall design, pilot test, and analyze usability performance tests on accessible voting systems identified in Task 1 to
determine their potential for VVSG conformance tests.

The Contractor shall:

      (a) Select the usability performance tests, design the test protocols, and choose the test participant demographics (including
      considerations of test participants who are blind, have low vision, have mobility and dexterity disabilities.  The demographics shall be
      discussed and agreed upon with the NIST TIC.

       (b) Conduct pilot tests of selected test protocols.

      (c) Analyze all data and report all findings.

Task 2 Deliverables:
   a) Report on the draft test protocols, demographics, and goals of each test from Task 2 delivered to the TIC no later than 4 months after
      award.

   b) Report on the results from the pilot testing, including all data and analysis delivered to the NIST TIC no later than 7 months after date
      of award.

Task 3: The Contractor shall identify issues and future research to further enhance the usability performance tests for accessible voting
systems.

Within this task, the Contractor shall:

      (a)  Further analyze all data collected to determine additional demographics and testing variations that would strengthen the tests or
      address gaps.

      (b) Identify future research areas based on the findings in (a)

      (c) Discuss all finding with NIST TIC and other NIST staff as requested by the NIST TIC.


      c) Attend NIST voting project meetings as requested by the NIST TIC.

Task 3 Deliverables:
   a) Report on the analysis, issues, and future research plans from Task 3 delivered to the TIC no later than 9 months after award.

   b) Final report summarizing all work and results from Tasks 1 through 3 delivered to the NIST TIC no later than 11 months after date of award.



VI. Period of Performance and Place of Performance

Period of Performance is the effective date of award through 12 months after date of award.

Work shall be completed at the contractor’s facility.

VII. Inspection and Acceptance Criteria


As duties and responsibilities are completed, the Contractor shall request review and inspection by the NIST TIC.  Tasks completed in an
unacceptable manner may require corrective action by the Contractor.  Within 5 business days of receipt of reports, the NIST TIC shall inform
the Contractor of any required revisions or deliverable acceptance. The contractor shall submit the revised deliverables within 5 calendar days
of receipt of TIC comments to the TIC


VIII. Government Furnished Property and Responsibilities

The Government will provide to the Contractor through the NIST TIC:

   1. All voting equipment needed for the planning and usability testing in Task 1 and Task 2


   2. All details of NIST VPP, metrics, test materials, test data, benchmark data, and statistical analyses from previous investigations.

   3. Access to the NIST campus for meetings.

IX. Risk Level

The designated risk level for this requirement is No Risk level.



