
                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK
                                                     PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF MONITORS
                                                          BUILDING 769 CHAPEL SANCTUARY


I.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

    A. SCOPE OF WORK
    1. This specification establishes the minimum requirements for the acquisition of all labor and materials required for the installation of
       10 each,  42” LCD monitors and full motion mounts.  This installation includes electrical connections (extension cords) to provide power
       to the LCD monitors.  The contractor shall be responsible for all items needed for a complete installation based on this typical type of
       installation in the ceiling.

    2. The project includes integrating the monitors with the existing system for the monitors to display from a computer.

II. CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITIES

    A. GENERAL
    1. Provide all materials, labor, equipment, and services necessary for complete installation of the products.  Contractor will cover and
       protect the pews from falling debris and clean areas as needed at the end of each work day.

    2. Provide products that are new, free from defects, and offered on current GSA schedule.

    B. PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS
    1. All monitors, mounts, components, cable and hardware shall be comptacble with our present system. Full motion mounts are required.


   C.  INSTALLATION
    1. All products shall be assembled and installed in strict accordance with installation procedures.

    2. The contractor shall provide a single point of contact (installation foreman) who will be responsible for coordinating all phases of the
       systems monitor installation.  Time of installation shall be scheduled with the Wing Chaplain or NCOIC as we are a public facility. This
       individual shall be on-site at all times during installation should any problems occur.  Any delays or problems should be reported to the
       Administrative Contracting Office and Facility Representative.

    3. A final walk-thru inspection shall be conducted with the installation foreman and facility representative after installation has been
       completed.  Any components damaged, missing, or installed incorrectly will be listed and a copy give to the Administrative Contracting
       Office.  A suitable time frame for correction of these problems will be allowed.





III.   MONITOR REQUIREMENTS

   A.  GENERAL
    1. All components shall be current market items.  Estimated cable is 600-1000 ft.

   B.     MONITORS
       1.  10  each – 42” LCD monitors with full HD (1080p) is required for clarity purposes and 120 Hz, is required for reason related to
       clarity, with VGA connectivity capability.


   C.  MOUNTS
       1.  Full motion wall mounts are required.  The TV’s will be mounted on the side pillars slightly slanted due to the design of the
       Sanctuary, for angleing down for viewing.

   D.  DISTRIBUTOR AMP
       1.  The distributor AMP must be compatable to the existing sytem in place with out making alteration to existing system through out the
       building.





