District of Columbia Courts 
 Administrative Services Division 
 Procurement and Contracts Branch 
 AMENDMENT NO.1

TO: AMENDMENT ISSUE DATE: SUBJECT: PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DATE:

ALL PROSPECTIVE OFFERORS

April 14, 2011
Solicitation No. CSP-11-029 - Tape Backup Solution

Monday, May 2, by 1:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time.

The subject solicitation is amended as follow:
1. Page 7, Section C.2.3.1

Delete: Section C.2.3.1 in it's entirely. 2. Page 30, Section 1. List of Attachment Delete: Exhibit Supplement C.2.3 - Auto Support Log ALL OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS REMAIN UNCHANGED

One (1) copy of this amendment is being sent to only those offerors who received a copy the solicitation. Offerors shall sign below and attach a signed copy of this amendment to each offer to be submitted to the Courts in response to the subject solicitation. Offers shall be mailed or delivered in accordance with the instructions provided in the original solicitation documents. Offerors shall submit their offers in sealed envelopes, identified on the outside by the solicitation number and submission date, in accordance the instructions provided in the original solicitation documents. This amendment, together with your offer must be received by the District of Columbia Courts no later than the date and time specified for offer submission. Revisions or price changes occasioned by this amendment must be received by the Courts no later than the date and time set for offer submission. Failure to acknowledge receipt of this all!S1ndment may be cause for rejection of any offers submitted in response to the subject solicitatron.

This amendment is acknowledged and is considered a part of the subject solicitation.

Signature of Authorized Representative

Date

Title of Authorized Representative

Name of Firm

2


ATTACHMMENT J.t

D.C. COURTS GENERAL CONTRACT PROVISIONS
 FOR USE WITH
 D.C. COURTS
 SUPPLY AND SERVICES CONTRACTS
 APRIL 2007


\

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIVISION
 PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTS BRANCH
 616 H STREET, N.W., 6TH FLOOR
 SUITE 622
 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20001


D.C. COURTS GENERAL CONTRACT PROVISIONS (APRIL 2007)
1. Definitions Changes '" Transfers Waiver Indemnification Patents and Copyrights Covenant Against Contingent Fees Quality Health And Safety Standards Inspection Of Supplies Inspection Of Services Payment. 2


2.
3. 4.

2

:; :;

5. 6.
7.

2
 3

4
 4
 4
 4
 ~ .. 7
 7


8.
9. 10. 11. 12.

:

13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30.

Taxes Appointment of Attorney Termination for Default Termination for Convenience of the Court Termination of Contracts for Certain Crimes and Violations Protests and Disputes Independent Contractor Relationship Security Officials not to Benefit. Retention and Examination of Rooks Recovery of Debts Owed the Court Appropriation of Funds Non-Discrimination in Employment Buy American Act Service Contract Act of 1965 Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act........................... Governing Law Multiyear Contract

7
 8
 8
 9
 13

14
 14
 14
 14
 15
 15
 15
 15
 16


17

23
 23
 23


1. Definitions.

The term "Contracting Officer" shall mean the Executive Officer of the District of Columbia Courts or her or his authorized representative. The term "Court" shall. depending on how that term is defined elsewhere in this contract, mean the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. the District or Columbia Court of Appeals or the District or Columbia Court System. If the Contractor is an-individual. the term "Contractor" shall mean the Contractor. his or her heir!S). executors and administrators. If the Contractor is a corporation, the "Contractor" shaII 111':311 the Contractor and its successor. The term "District of Columbia government' shall mean all the branches of the government of the District of Columbia. including the District of Columbia Courts.
2. Changes.

The Contracting Officer may at any lime, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes in this contract within the general scope hereof. If such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of performance of this contract, or in the time required for performance, an equitable adjustment shall be made. Any claim for adjustment under this paragraph must be asserted within ten (10) days from the date the change is offered, provided however, that the Contracting Officer. may, in his or her discretion receive, consider and adjust any such claim asserted at any time prior to the final settlement of the contract. If the parties fail to agree upon the adjustment to be made. the dispute shall be determined in accordance with Clause 18. Nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.

3. Transfers.
This contract or any interest herein shall not be transferred by either the Court or the Contractor except upon written permission of the other party.

4. Waiver.
The waiver of any breach of this contract will not constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach thereof. nor a waiver of this contract.
5. Indemnificatioll.
(a)

The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless the COUIt and its officers. agents and employees from and against any and all claims. losses. liabilities. penalties. fines. forfeitures, demands, causes of action. suits and expenses incidental thereto (including the cost of defense and attorneys fees) resulting from. arising out of. or in any Via) connected to an) act. omission or default of the Contractor. its officers. agents. employees. servants or its subcontractors, or any other person acting for or by permission of the Contractor in the performance of this contract. regardless of whether or not any damage resulting from the

Contractor's act. omission or default is caused in pan by the Ccurt. The Contractor assumes all risks for direct and indirect damage or injury to the properlY or persons used or employed in performance of this Contract. The Contractor shall also repair or replace any Court property that is damaged by the Contractor. Contractor's officers, employees, agents, servants. subcontractors. or any other person <ll,ting for or by permission of the Contractor while performing work hereunder. (b) The indemnification obligation under this clause shall not be limited by the existence of any insurance policy or by any. limitation on the amount or type of damages, compensation or benefits payable by or for Contractor or any subcontractor. and shall survive the termination of this Contract. The COUlt agrees to give Contractor written notice of any claim of indemnity under this clause. Additionally, Contractor shall have the right and sole authority to control tlre defense or settlement of such claim, provided that no contribution or action by the Court is required in connection with the settlement. Monies due or to become due the Contractor under the contract may be retained by the District as necessary to satisfy any outstanding claim which the District may have against the Contractor. (c) The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless the Court and its officers, agents, servants and employees from liability of any nature or kind, including costs and expenses. for or on account of the use of any patented or unpatented invention, item or process, manufactured or used in the performance of this contract, including their use by the Court. unless otherwise specifically stipulated in the contract. (d) The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless the Court and its officers. agents, servants and employees against any claim for copyright infringement relating to any work produced. used or delivered under this contract.
6. Patents and Copnights.

(a) The Contractor shall not make application for a patent or copyright on any invention. item-or process produced under this contract except with the written permission of the Court. The Court shall have an irrevocable nonexclusive royalty free license with the right to sublicense in any invention conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this contract or any subcontract thereunder. (b) All reports, programs. manuals, discs. tapes. card desks. listing. and other materials prepared by or worked upon by the Contractor's employees under this Agreement shall belong exclusively to the Court.

.'

-,

(c)

Contractor agrees not to publish or disclose any material first prepared under this Agreement without prior permission of the Court.

(d) Contractor will not knovingly include an: work cOP: righted by others in any material prepared under this Agreement unless it obtained either prior permission from the Court or an irrevocable royalty free license for the Court in such work, (e) Contractor agrees to give the Court all assistance reasonably required to protest the rights defined in these provisions.
7, Covenant Against Contingent Fees.

The Contractor warrants that no person or agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure the contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee. excepting a bona fide employee or agency maintained by the Contractor for the purpose of securing business. For breach or violation of this warranty. the Court shall have the right to terminate this contract without liability or in its discretion to deduct from the contract price 01' consideration, or otherwise recover, the full amount of the commission. percentage. brokerage. 01' contingent fee, 8. Qualit". Contractor's workmanship shall be of the highest grade, and all materials provided under this Contract shall be new, of the best quality and grade. and suitable in every respect for the purpose intended,

9. Health And Safetv Standards.
Items delivered under this contract shall conform to all requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended ("OSHA"). and Department of Labor Regulations under OSHA, and all Federal requirements in effect at time of bid opening/proposal submission.
10. Inspection Of Supplies.

(a) "Supplies:' as used in this clause. includes, but is not limited to raw materials, components. intermediate assemblies. end products. and lots of supplies, (b) The Contractor shall be responsible for the materials or suppl ies covered by this.contract until they are ,ddivered at the designated point. hut the Contractor shall bear all risk on rejected materials 01' supplies after notification ofrejection. Lpon the Contractor's failure to cure within ten ( l U) days after date of notification. the Court may return the rejected materials or supplies to the Contractor at the Contractor's risk and expense.

(c) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Court covering supplies under this contract and shall tender to the Court for acceptance only' supplies that have been inspected in accordance with the inspection system and have been found by the Contractor to be in conformity with contract requirements. As part of the system, the Contractor shall prepare records evidencing all inspections made under the system and the outcome. These records shall be kept complete and made available to the Court during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. The Court may perform reviews and evaluations as reasonably necessary to ascertain cornpl iance with this paragraph. These reviews and evaluations shall be conducted in a manner that will not unduly delay the contract work, The right of review, whether exercised or not. does not relieve the Contractor of the obligations under this contract. ld) The Court has the right to inspect and test all supplies called for by the contract. to the extent practicable. at all places and times. including the period of manufacture, and in any event before acceptance. The Court will perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. The Court assumes no contractual obligation to perform any inspection and test for the benefit of the Contractor unless specifically set forth elsewhere in the contract. (e) I f the Court performs inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, without additional charge, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the Court will bear the expense of Court inspections or tests made at other than Contractor's or subcontractor's premises; provided, that in case of rejection. the Court will not he liable for any reduction in the value of inspection or test samples.
(I) When supplies are not ready at the time specified by the Contractor for inspection or

test. the Contracting Officer may charge to the Contractor the additional cost of inspection or test.
\
,

(2) Contracting Officer may also charge the Contractor for any additional cost of

inspection or test when prior rejection makes reinspection or retest necessary.
(1) The Court has the right either to reject or to require correction of nonconforming supplies. Supplies are nonconforming when they are defective in material or workmanship or otherwise not in conformity with contract requirements. The COUll may reject nonconforming supplies with or without disposition instructions.

19) The Contractor shall remove supplies rejected or required to be corrected. However, the Contracting Officer may require or permit correction in place, promptly after notice, by and at the expense of the Contractor. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance corrected or rejected supplies without disclosing the former rejection or requirement for correction. and when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken.

5

(111 If the Contractor fails to remove. replace. or G\)lTC:Ct rejected supplies that are required to be replaced or corrected within ten ( 10) day s. the: Court may either (I) by contract or otherwise. remove, replace or COITeC! the supplies and charge the cost to the Contractor or (2) terminate the contract lor default. Unless the Contractor corrects or replaces the supplies within the delivery schedule. the Contracting Officer may require their delivery and make an equitable price reduction. failure h1 agree to II price reduction shall be a dispute,

til Ifthis contract provides tor the performance Ot'CHII1 quality assurance at source, and if requested h~ tht' Court. the Contractor shall furnish advance notification of the time (i) when Contractor inspection or tests will be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. and (i i) when the supplies wiII be ready lor Court inspeciion.
(j) The Court request shall specify the period and method of the advance notification and the Court representative to whom it shall be furnished. Requests shall not require more than 2 business days of advance notification if the Court representative is in residence in the Contractor's plant. nor more than 7 business days in other instances.

(k) The Court will accept or reject supplies as promptly as practicable after delivery. unless otherwise provided in the contract. COtl11 failure to inspect and accept or reject the supplies shall not relieve the Contractor from responsibility. nor impose liability upon the Court, for non-conforming suppl ics,
(I) Inspections and tests by the Court do not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for

defects or other failures to meet contract requirements discovered before acceptance. Acceptance shall be conclusive. except for latent defects, fraud, gross mistakes amounting to fraud, or as otherwise provided in the contract. (m) If acceptance is not conclusive for any of the reasons in subparagraph (I) hereof. the Court, in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law. or under provisions of this contract. shall have the right to require the Contractor (I) at no increase in contract price, to correct or replace the defective or nonconforming supplies at the original point of delivery or at the Contractor's plant at the Contracting Officer's election. and in accordance with a reasonable delivery schedule as may be agreed upon between the Contractor and the Contracting Officer: provided, that the Contracting Officer may require a reduction in contract price if the Contractor fails to meet such delivery schedule. or (2) within a reasonable time after receipt by the Contractor of notice of defects or noncompliance, to repay such portion of the contract as is equitable under the circumstances if the Contracting Officer elects not to require correction or replacement. When supplies are returned to the Contractor. the Contractor shall bear the transportation cost from the original point of delivery to the Contractor's plant and return to the original point when that point is not the Contractor's plant. If the Contractor fai Is to perform or act as required in (I ) or (2) above and does not cure such fa i Iurc within a period of J0 days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer nta:, auth,.rize in writing) after receipi l)f notice from the Contracting Officer specifying such railure. the COlin will have the right to return the rejected materials at Contractor's risk and expense or contract or otherwise to replace or correct such suppl ies and charge to the Contractor the cost occasioned the Court thereby,

11. Inspection Of Services. (a) "Services" as used in this clause includes services performed. workmanship. and material

furnished or util izcd in the performance of services.

(b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Court covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Court during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires.
(c) The Court has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract. to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The Court will perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) If the Court performs inspections or tests on the premises of tile Contractor or subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish. without additional charge. all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safety and convenient performance of these duties.
(e) If any of the services do not conform to the contract requirements. the Court may require

the Contractor to perform these services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by performance. the Court may require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements and reduce the contract price to reflect value of services performed.
(I) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity to contract requirements, the Court may (l) by

contract or otherwise. perform the services and charge the Contractor any cost incurred by the Court that is directly related to the performance of such services, or (2) terminate the contract for defauIt.
12. Pavment.

The Coun shall pay the Contractor for services performed by the Contractor in the manner set forth in this contract. at the rate prescribed upon the submission by the Contractor of'. proper invoices or time statements. at the time provided for in this contract, to the Budget and Finance Division for contracts involving the Superior Court of the District of Columbia or the Court System. or to the Clerk of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for contracts involving the District of Columbia Court of Appeals.
13.~

The District of Columbia Courts are exempt from and will not pay Federal Excise lax. Iransportation fa". and the District of Columbia Sales and l.'se Taxes.

7

14. Appointment of

;\ttOnlC\.

The bidder-offeror or Contractor (whichever the case may be) does hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the: Clerk of the District of Columbia Superior Court and his or her successor in office as the true and lav ful auorncy or the Contractor for the purpose of receiv ing service orall notices and processes issued by any court in the District of Columbia. as well as service or all pleadings and other papers. in relation to any action or legal proceeding arising out of or pertaining to this contract or the work required or performed hereunder. The bidder/offeror or Contractor (whichever the case may be) expressly agrees that the validity of any service upon the said Clerk as herein authorized shall not be affected either by the fact that the Contractor was personally within the District of Columbia and otherwise subject to personal service at the time of such service upon the said Clerk or by the fact that the contractor failed to receive :I COP) of such process. notice or other paper so served upon the said Clerk provided the said CIerI-; shall have deposited in the United States mail. registered and postage prepaid. a copy of such process. notice. pleading or other paper addressed to the bidder/offeror or contractor at the address stated in this contract.
15. Termination for Default.

(a) The Contracting Officer may, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) below, by written notice to the Contractor. terminate the whole or any part of this contract for any of the following reasons: (I) If the Contractor fails to make delivery of the supplies or to perform the services within the time specified herein or any extension thereof: or (2) If the Contractor fails to perform any otthe other provisions of this contract. or so fails to make progress as to endanger performance of this contract in accordance with its terms, and in either of these two circumstances does not cure such failure within a period of ten (10) days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may authorize in writing) after receipt of notice from the Contracting Officer specifying such failure. (b) in the event the Contracting Officer terminates this contract in whole or in part as provided in paragraph (a) of this clause. the Contracting Officer may procure. upon such terms and in such manner as the Contracting Officer may deem appropriate. supplies or services similar to those so terminated. and the Contractor shall be liable to the Court for an} excess costs for similar supplies or services: provided. that the Contractor shall continue the performance of this contract 10 the extent not terminated under the provisions of this clause.
(c)

Except with respect to defaults of subcontractors. the Contractor shall not be liable for an) excess costs if the failure to perform the contract arises OUt of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Such causes may include. but are not restricted to. acts of God or ofthe public enemy. acts of the District or Federal Government

8

in either their sovereign or contractual capacity. fires. floods. epidemics. quarantine restrictions, strikes. freight embargoes. and unusually severe weather: but in every case the failure to perf01111 must he beyond the control and \\ ithout fault or negligence of the Contractor. lfthc failure to perform is caused by the default of the subcontractor. and ifsuch default arises out of causes be) and the control or both the Contractor and the subcontractor. and without the fault or negligence of either of them, the Contractor shall not be liable for any excess cost 1'..,1' failure to perform. unless the supplies or services t..) he furnished by the subcontractor \\ ere ohia inable from other sources in sufficient time to permit the Contractor to meet the required delivery schedule. (d) If this contract is terminated as provided in paragraph (a) of this clause. the Court, in addition to any other rights provided in this clause, may require the Contractor to transfer title and deliver to the COUlt, in the manner and to the extent directed by the Contracting Officer, (i) completed supplies, and (ii) such partially completed supplies and materials. parts, tools. dies, jigs. fixtures plans. drawing information. and contract rights (hereinafter called "manufacturing materials") as the Contractor has specifically produced or specifically acquired for the performance of such part of this contract as has been terminated: and the Contractor shall. upon direction of the Comracting Officer, protect and preserve property in possession of the Contractor in which the Court has an interest. Payment for completed supplies delivered to and accepted by the Court will be at the contract price. Payment for manufacturing materials delivered to and accepted by the Court and for the protection and preservation of property shall be in an amount agreed upon by the Contractor and Contracting Officer; failure to agree to such amount shall be a dispute concerning a question or fact within the meaning of the Disputes clause of this contract. The Court may withhold from amounts otherwise due the Contractor for such completed supplies or manufacturing materials such sum as the Contracting Officer determines to be necessary to protect the Court against loss because or outstanding liens or claims of former lien holders, (e) If, after notice oftermination or this contract under the provisions of this clause, it is determined for any reason that the Contractor was not in default under the provisions of this clause. or that the default was excusable under the provisions of this clause, the rights and obligations of the parties shall. if the contract contains a clause providing for termination of convenience of the COUt1. be the same as if the notice of termination had been issued pursuant to such clause.
(f) The rights and remedies of the Court provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and arc in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
(g) As used in paragraph (c) or this clause. the tCl111 "subcoutracton s)" means

subcontractorts) at any tier.

16. Termination for Convenience of the Court.

ta) The Court may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or. from time to time. in pan: if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Court's

9

interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a written Notice of Termination specifying the extent of termination and effective date.
(b) Afier receipt of a Notice of Termination. and except as directed by the Contracting

Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations. regardless of any delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause: (1) Stop work as specified in the notice.
(2) Place no further subcontracts or orders (referred to as subcontracts in this clause) for

materials. services. or facilities. except as necessary to complete the continued portion of the contract.
(3) Terminate all contracts to the extent they relate to the work terminated.

(4) Assign W the Court. as directed by the Contracting Officer. all rights, title and interest of the Contractor under the subcontracts terminated. in which case the Court will have the right to seule or pay any termination settlement proposal arising out of those terminations, (5) With approval or ratification to the extent required by the Contracting Officer, settle all outstanding liabilities and termination settlement proposals arising from the termination of subcontracts. The approval or ratification will be final for purposes of this clause. (6) As directed by the Contracting Officer, transfer title and deliver to the Court (i) the fabricated or unfabricated parts, work in process. completed work, supplies. and other materials produced or acquired for the work terminated, and (ii) the completed or partially completed plans. drawings. information. and other property that, if the contract has been completed. would be required to be furnished to the Court.
\

(7) Complete performance of the work not terminated.

(8) Take any action that may be necessary, or that the Contracting Officer may direct, for the protection and preservation of the property related to this contract that is in the possession of the Contractor and in which the Court has or may acquire an interest.
(9)

Use its best efforts to sell, as directed or authorized by the Contracting Officer. any property of the types referred to in subparagraph (6) above: provided. however, that the Contractor (i) is not required to extend credit to any purchaser and (ii) may acquire the property under the conditions prescribed by. and at prices approved by. the Contracting Officer. The proceeds of any transfer or disposition wi II be applied to reduce any payments to be made by the COUI1 under this contract. credited to the price or cost of the work. or paid in any other manner directed by the Contracting Officer.

10

\c) After the expiration or ninctv (90) J:ly:o. luI' such longer period :b ma~ he agreed to) after receipt by the Contracting Officer of acceptable inventory schedules. the Contractor may submit to the Contracting Officer a list. certified as to quantity anci quality of termination inventory not previously disposed of excluding items authorized for disposition by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request the Court to remove those items or enter into an agreement fur their storage. Within fifteen (15) days. the Court will accept title to those items and remove them or enter into a storage agreement. The Contracting Officer may verify the list upon removal of the items. or if stored, within forty five (45) days from submission of the list. and shall correct the list. as necessary. before final settlement.
(d) After termination. the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal 10 the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shaII submit the proposal promptly. hut no later than one year from the effective date of termination. unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 011': year period. However. if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it. a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on after one year or any extension. If the Contractor fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine. on the basis of information available. the amount. if any. due to (he Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined.

(e) Subject to paragraph (d) above. the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid because of the termination. The amount may include a reasonable allowance for profit on work done. However. the agreed amount. whether under this paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) below, exclusive of costs shown in subparagraph (f)(3) below, may not exceed the total contract price as reduced by (1) the amount of payment previously made and (2) the contract price of work not terminated, The contract shall be amended, and the Contractor paid the agreed amount. Paragraph (f) below shall not limit. restrict. or affect the amount that may be agreed upon to be paid under this paragraph.
\

(f) If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree on the whole amount to be paid because of the termination work. the Contracting Officer shall pay the Contractor the

amounts determined by the Contracting Officer as follows. but without dupl ication of any amounts agreed on under paragraph (e) above:
(l) The contract price for completed supplies or services accepted by the Court (or

sold or acquired under subparagraph (b)(9) above) not previously paid for. adjusted for any saving of freight and other charges.
(1)

The total of:
(i)

The- costs incurred in the performance of the \\ ark terminated. including initial costs and preparator) expense allocable thereto. but excluding any costs attributable to supplies or sen ices paid or to be paid under subparagraph (1)(1)
above:

11

(ii) The cast de settling. and paying termination seulemern proposals under terminated subcontracts that are properly chargeable ttl the terminated portion of the ,'OI1lr;:Ct if nut included in subparagraph (f)( I, above: and

(iii) A sum. as profit on subparagraph m( I) above, determined by the Contracting Officer to be fair and reasonable: however. if it appears that the Contractor would have sustained a loss on the entire contract had it been completed. the Contracting Officer shall allow IW profit under this subparagraph (iii) and shall reduce the settlement to reflect the indicated rate of loss.
(3) The reasonable cost ofsenlemcni otthc work terminated. including
(i)

Accounting. legal. clerical. and other expenses reasonably necessary for the preparatinn of termination settlement proposals and supporting data:

(ii) The termination and settlement of subcontractors (excluding the amounts of

such settlements): and
(iii) Storage, transportation. and other costs incurred. reasonably necessary for the preservation, protection. or disposition of the termination inventory.

{g) Except for normal spoilage. and except to the extent that the Court expressly assumed the risk of loss. the Contracting Officer shall exclude from the amounts payable to the Contractor under paragraph (f) above. the fair value as determined by the Contracting Officer, or property that is destroyed. lost. stolen. or damaged so as to become undeliverable to the Court or to a buyer. (h) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause. from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under paragraphs (d), (f) or (j), except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time provided in paragraph (d) or (D. and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. If the Contracting Officer has made a determination of the amount due under paragraph (d). (0 or (j). the Court will pay the Contractor (I) the amount determined by the Contracting Officer if there is no right of appeal or ifno timely appeal has been taken, or (2) the amount finally determined on an appeal.
(i) In arri. ing at the amount due the Contractor under this clause. there shall be deducted:

(I) All unliquidated advances or other payments to the Contractor under the termination portion of the contract: (2) Any claim which the Court has against the Contractor under this contract; and

1]

(3) The agreed price for, or the proceeds of sale of, materials. supplies, or other things acquired by the Contractor or sold under the provisions of this clause and not t...ecovered by or credited to the COlin.

is partial. the Contractor may file a proposal with the Contracting Officer for an equitable adjustment of the priceis) of the continued portion of the contract. The Contracting Officer shall make any equitable adjustment agreed upon. Any proposal by the Contructor Ior an equitable adjustment under this clause shall be requested within ninety (90) days from the effective date of term ination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer.
(k)( I) The Court may, under the terms and conditions it prescribes, make partial payments and payments against costs incurred by the Contractor for the terminated portion of the contract. if t he Contracting Officer believes the total or these payments will not exceed the amount to which the Contractor shall be entitled. (2) I f the toia 1 payments exceed the amount finally determined
to be due, the Contractor shall repay the excess to the Court upon demand together with interest computed at the rate of 10 percent (10%) per year. Interest shall be computed for the period from the date the excess payment is received by the Contractor to the date the excess payment is repaid. Interest shall not be charged on any excess payment due to a reduction in the Contractor's termination settlement proposal because of retention or other disposition or termination inventory until 10 days after the date of the retention or disposition, or a later date determined by the Contracting Officer because of the circumstances.

Ul [I' the termination

(I) Unless otherwise provided in this contract or by statute. the Contractor shall maintain all

records and documents relating to the terminated portion of this contract for 3 years after final settlement. This includes all books and other evidence bearing on the Contractor's costs and expenses under this contract. The Contractor shall make these records and documents available to the Court. at the Contractor's office, at all reasonable times. without any direct charge. If approved b~ the Contracting Officer, photographs. micrographs. or other authentic reproductions may be maintained instead of original records and documents.
17. Termination of Contracts for Certain Crimes and Violations.

(a) The District may terminate without liability any contract and may deduct from the contract price or otherwise recover the full amount of any fee. commission, percentage. gift. or consideration paid in violation of this title if: ( I ) The Contractor has been convicted of a crime arising out of or in
 connection with the procurement of any work to be done or any paymeru
 to be made under (he contract: or

~2) There has been any breach or \ iolation of:

13

L-\) Any provision "I'th= PmLUr~l11~11t Practices ACl "r jl)S:'. as amended, or

(B) The contract provision against contingent fees.

(b) If a contract is terminated pursuant to this clause. the Contractor:

(1) ;vlay be paid on ly (he actual costs of the work performed to the date of

termination. plus termination costs. if an>: and

(2) Shall refund all profits or fixed fees realized under the Contract.

(c) The rights and remedies contained in this arc in addition 10 any other right or remedy provided by law, and the exercise ofany of them is not a waiver of any other right or remedy provided by law.
18. Protests and Disputes.

Any protest or dispute arising under or out of this contract is subject to the provisions of Chapter 8 of the Procurement Guidelines of the District of Columbia Courts (August 2003 or subsequent modifications).
19. Independent Contractor Relationship.
It is expressly understood and agreed that the professional technical personnel assigned by the Contractor to work under this contract are the Contractor's employees or agents. Linder no circumstances are such individuals to be considered COUl1 employees or agents. Contractor and its employees shall be considered in an independent contract relationship with the Court at all times.

20. \Securih',

Contractor agrees that its employees shall treat as strictly confidential. all information received as a result of the performance of this contract. Such information will not, except as required by law. be disclosed to anyone outside of the Court's organization during the period of this contract or thereafter.
21. Officials nor to Benefit.

Unless a determination is made as provided herein. no officer or employee or tile District of Columbia goverumcnt shall be admitted to any share or part of this contract or to any benefit arising therefrom. and any contract made by the Contracting Officer or any Court employee authorized to execute coruracts in which they or an employee of the Court will be personally interested shall be void, and no payment shall be made thereon by the Court or any officer thereof, but this prov ision shall not be construed to extend to this contract to the extent that this contract is made with a corporation for the corporation' s general benefit. A District

1ˇ\

employee shall nor be a pal1) to a contract with the Court and will not knowingly cause or allow a business (l1nC(TI1 or other organizarton owned or substantially owned or controlled b) the employee tl' be 3 part) to such a contract. unless a written determination has been made by the Court that there i-: ;1 compelling reason for contracting with the employee. such as when the C)u11' s needs cannot reasonably otherwise be mel.

22. Retention and Examination of Books.
The Contractor shall retain all.books. records, financial records. supporting documents. statistical records. and any other documents (inc luding electronic storage media) pertinent to the contract for a period of three years after termination of the contract, or if an audit has been initiated and audit findings have not been resolved at the end of three years. the records shall be retained until resolution of the audit findings or any litigation which may be based on the terms of the contract. The Contractor shall assure that these records shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection. review. or audit by Federal. Court. or other personnel duly authorized by the Contracting Officer. The Contracting officer. or his or her duly authorized representative shall, until three years after final payment. have the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Contractor involving transactions related to this contract.

23. Recoven' of Debts Owed the Court.
The Contractor hereby agrees that the Court may usc all or any portion of any consideration or refund due the Contractor under this contract to satisfy. in whole or part, any debt due to the Court. ˇ

24. ApproQl;atioD of Funds.
\

The Court's liability under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated monies with which to make payment for the contract purposes. The legal liability on the part of the Court for the payment of any money shall not arise unless such appropriated monies shall have been provided.
25. Non-Discrimination in Employment.

(a) The Contractor shall not discriminate in any manner against an employee or applicant for employment because of actual or perceived: race. color. religion. national origin, sex. age. marital status. personal appearance, sexual orientation. gender identity or expression. family responsibilities. genetic information. disability. matriculation, or political affiliation. as these terms are defined in the District of Colurnbia Human Rights Act. as amended (D.C. Official Code ~ 2-140 I .02). The Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed. and that employees an: treated during employrneut, without regard to their race. (,1101'. religion, national origin. sex. age. marital status. personal appearance. sexual

15

orientation. gender idcntir.

\\1" expression.

family rcsponsibil itics. genetic information.

disahility , matricul.uion or political affiliation The affirmative action shall include. but not
be Iimited to the I'll Iio\\ ing: employment. upgrading. or transfer: recruitment or recruitment advertising: demotion. layoff. ()J" termination: rates of pa;, or other fOI11lS of compensation: and selection for training and apprenticeship. (b) The Contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places. available to employees and applicants for employment. notices scning forth the provisions in paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall. in all solicitations or advertisements tor employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor. state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to their race. color. religion. national origin. sex, age. marital status. personal appearance, sexual orientation. gender identity or expression. family responsibilities. genetic information. disability. matriculation or political affiliation.
(C)

(d) The Contractor agrees to send each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice advising each labor union or worker' s representative or the commitment Contractor has made pursuant to paragraph n (a) of this clause. (e) The Contractor agrees to permit the Contracting Officer or his or her designated representative access to the Contractor's books, records. and accounts. pertaining to its employment practices fur purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the provisions comaincd in this clause.
(I) The Contractor shall include in every subcontract the provisions contained in paragraphs

(a), (b). (c). (dJ and (1:) of this clause so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor. 26. Buy American Act.
\

(a) The Buy American Act (41 U.S.c. § lOa) provides that the District of Columbia give preference to domestic end products. "Components:' as used in this clause. means those articles, materials, and supplies incorporated directly into the end products. "Domestic end product:' as used in this clause, means ( I) an un-manufactured end product mined or produced in the United States, or (2) an end product manufactured in the United States. if the cost of its componenis mined. produced. or manufactured in the United States. exceeds 50 percent of the COSl (If al\ its components, Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind as the products referred to in subparagraphs (b'l( 3) or (4) of this clause shall he treated as domestic. Scrap generated, collected. and prepared for processing in the United States is considered domestic. "End products:' as used in this clause, means those articles, materials. and supplies to be acquired for public use under this contract.

(by The Contractor shall deliver only domestic end products, except those
( I ) For use outside the United States:

(2) For which the Court determines the COSllO 11..: unreasonable:

(3) For which the COUI1 determines that domestic preference would be inconsistent .. vith the public interest: \)r (4) That the COUI1 determines ar~ nor mined. produced. or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities or a satisfactory quality.
27. Service Contract Act of 1965. (a) Definitions. "Act:" as used in this clause. means the Service Contract Act of 1965. as amended (41 USC. §351 et seq). "Contractor," as used in this clause. means the prime Contractor or any subcontractor at any tier. "Service employee," as used in this clause, means any person (other than a person employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity as detined in 29 CFR Part 541) engaged in performing a Court contract not exempted under 41 1.:.S.c. §356. the principal purpose or which is to furnish services in the United States, as defined in section 22.100 I of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. It includes all such persons regardless of the actual or alleged contractual relationship between them and a contractor or subcontractor.
(b) Applicability. To the extent that the Act applies. this contract is subject to the following provisions and to all other applicable provisions of the Act and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (19 CFR Part 4). All interpretations of the Act in Subpart C of 29 CFR Pan 4 are incorporated in this contract by reference. This clause does not apply to contracts or subcontracts administratively exempted by the Secretary of Labor or exempted by 41 U.S.C. §356, as interpreted in Subpart C of 29 CFR Part 4.
(C)

Compensation. (I) Each service employee employed in the performance of this contract by t~e Contractor or any subcontractor shall be paid not less than the minimum monetary wages and shall be furnished fringe benefits in accordance with the wages and fringe benefits determined by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's authorized representative. as specified in any wage determination attached to this contract. (2)(A) If a wage determination is attached to this contract. the Contractor shall classify any class of service employee not listed in it. but to be employed under this contract (i.e., the work to be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage determination) so as to provide a reasonable relationship (i .e.. appropriate level.of skill comparison) between such unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination. Such conformed class or employees shall be paid the monetary "ages and furnished the fringe benefits as are determined pursuant to the procedures ill this paragraph tc I.
(B) This conforming procedure shall be initiated by the Contractor prior to the

performance of COntract work by the unlisted class of employee. The Contractor shall

17

submit \;tanJ;lrd lorn: (sr') l;f~-L Request for Authorization of Additional Claxsification and Rate. to the Contracting Officer 110 later than 30 days after the unlisted class of employcc performs any contract work. The Contracting Officer shall review the proposed classification and rate and promptly submit the completed SF 1~44 (which must include information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the employees' authorized representatives or the employees themselves together with the ;lgcncy recommendation). and all pertinent information to the Wage and Hour Division. Employment Standards Administration (ESA). U.S. Department of Labor. The Wage and Hour Division will approve. nh)dil'). or disapprove the action or render a final determination in the event of disagreement within 30 days of receipt or \\ ill notij~ the C\)ntracting Officer within 30 days of receipt that additional time is necessary. The final determination ofthe conformance action by the Wage and Hour Division shall be transmitted to the Contracting Officer who shall promptly notify the Contractor of the action taken. Each affected employee shall be furnished by the Contractor with a written copy of such determination or it shall be posted as a pan of the wage determination.
(e)

(D)(i) The process of establishing wage and fringe benefit rates that bear a reasonable relationship to those listed in a wage determination cannot be reduced to any single formula. The approach used may \ at') from wage determination to wage determination depending 011 the circumstances. Standard wage and salary administration practices which rank various job classifications by pay grade pursuant to point schemes or other job factors may. for example. be relied upon. Guidance may also be obtained from the way different jobs are rated under Federal pay systems (Federal Wage Board Pay System and the General Schedule) or from other wage determinations issued in the same locality. Basic to the establishment of any conformable wage raters) is the concept that a pay relationship should be maintained between job classifications based on the skill required and the duties performed.

"

(ii) In the case of a contract modification. an exercise of an option. or extension of an existing contract. or in any other case where a Contractor succeeds to a contract under which the classification in question was previously conformed pursuant 10 this paragraph (c). a new conformed wage rate and fringe benefits may he assigned to the conformed classification by indexing ti.c .. adjusting) the previous conformed rate and fringe benefits by an amount equal to the average (mean) percentage increase (or decrease. where appropriate) between the wages and fringe benefits specified for all classifications to be used on the contract which are listed in the current wage determination, and those specified for the corresponding classifications in the previously applicable wage determination. Where conforming actions an; accomplished in accordance with this paragraph prior to the performance of contract work by the unlisted class of employees. the Contractor shall advise the Contracting Officer of the action taken but the other procedures in subparagraph Ic)(2)(13) of this clause need not be followed.

tH

(iii) No employee engaged in performing work on this contract shall in any event
6(3)(

be paid less than the currently applicable minimum wage specified under section I) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended,

(E) The wage rate and fringe benefits finally determined under subparagraph (c)(2 )ot" this clause shall be paid to all employees performing in the classification from the first day on which contract work is performed by them in the classification. Failure to pay the unlisted employees the compensation agreed upon by the interested parties and/or finally determined by the Wage and Hour Division retroactive to the date such class of employees commenced contract work shall he a violation of the Act and this contract:
iF) Upon discovery offailureto comply with subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause. the Wage and Hour Division shall make a final determination of conformed classification. wage rate. and/or fringe benefits which shall he retroactive to the date such class or classes of employees commenced contract work.

(3) If the term of this contract is more than (year. the minimum wages and fringe benefits required for service employees under this contract shall be subject to adjustment after I year and not less often than once every 2 years. under wage determinations issued by [he Wage and Hour Division. (d) Obligation to fumish fringe benefits. The Contractor or subcontractor may discharge the obligation to furnish fringe benefits specified in the attachment or determined under subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause by furnishing any equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits, or by making equivalent or differential cash payments. only in accordance with Subpart D of29 CFR Part 4, (e) Minimum wage. In the absence of a minimum wage attachment for this contract, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor shall pay any service or other employees performing work under this contract less than the minimum wage specified by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. as amended (29 U.S.c. §206). Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor or any subcontractor of any other legal or contractual obligation to pay a higher wage to any employee.
(f) Successor contracts, If this contract succeeds a contract subject to the Act under which

substantially the same services were furnished and service employees were paid wages and fringe benefits provided for in a collective bargaining agreement. then, in the absence of a minimum wage attachment to this contract. neither the Contractor nor the subcontractor shall pay any service employee performing this contract less than the wages and fringe benefits. including those accrued and any prospective increases. provided for under that agreement. No Contractor or subcontractor may be relieved of this obligation unless the limitations of 29 Cf R 4.1 brb) apply or unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's authorized representative finds. after a hearing under 29 eFR 4.10, that the wages and fringe benefits provided for by that agreement vary substantially from those prevailing for similar services in the locality or determines, :IS provided in 29 CFR 4.11, that the collective bargaining

14

agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's lengil: negotiations. Where it is found in accordance with the review procedures provided in 29 CFR ~.I 0 and 4,11 and parts 6 and 8 that some or all of the wages and/or fringe benefits contained in a predecessor Contractor's collective bargaining agreement arc substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, and 'or that the collective bargaining agreement applicable 11) service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's length negotiations. till' Department ",ill issue a n~\\ or revised wage determination selling forth [he applicable wage rates and fringe benefits Such determination shall he made part of the contract or subcontract, in"accordance with the decision of the Administrator. the Administrative Law Judge. or the Board of Service Contract Appeals. as the case may be, irrespective of whether such issuance occurs prior to or after the award or a contract or subcontract (53 Compo Gen. 401 (1973)). In the case of a wage determination issued solely as a result ofa finding of substantial variance. such determination shall be effective as of the date of the final administrative decision,
tg) Notification to employees, The Contractor and any subcontractor shall notify each service employee commencing work on this contract or the minimum wage and any fringe benefits required to be paid, or shall post the wage determination attached to this contract. The poster provided by the Department of Labor (Publication WH 1313) shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Failure 10 comply with this requirement is a violation of section 2(a)(4) of the Act and of this contract.

(h) Safe and sanitary working conditions, The Contractor or subcontractor shall not permit services called for by this contract to be performed in buildings or surroundings Or under working conditions provided by or under the control or supervision or the Contractor or subcontractor that are unsanitary, hazardous. or dangerous to the health or safety of service employees. The Contractor or subcontractor shall comply with the health standards applied under 29 CfR Pan 1925,
(i) Records, (I) The Contractor and each subcontractor shall maintain for 3 years from the completion of work. and make available for inspection and transcription by authorized ESA representatives. a record of the following:

(A) For each employee subject to the Act:
(i)

Name. address and social security number:

(ii) Work classi ficution or c lassifications. rate or rates of wages and fringe benefits provided. rate or rates of payments in lieu of fringe benefits. and total daily and week l~ compcnsai ion:

(iii) Daily and weekly hours worked: and (iv) Any deductions. rebates, or refunds from total dai Iy or weekly compensation.

20

(8) For those classes of service employees not included in any wage determination attached to this contract, wage rates or fringe benefits determined by the interested parties or by ESA under the terms of paragraph (e) of this clause, A copy of the report required by subparagraph (c)(2)(B) ofthis clause will fulfill this requirement.

(2 J The Contracior shaII also make ,}\ ailahle ~i (")r~ of this contract for inspection or transcription by authorized representatives ofthe Wage and Hour Division. (3) Fai lure to make and maintain or to make avai lahlc these records for inspection and transcription shall be a violation of the regulations and this contract, and in the case of failure to produce these records, the Contracting Officer, upon direction of the Department of Labor and notification to the Contractor, shall take action [0 cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until the violation ceases.
(4) The Contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division {O conduct interviews with employees at the worksite during normal working

hours.
(j) Pay periods. The Contractor shall unconditionally pay to each employee subject to the

Act all wages due free and clear and without subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by law or regulations. 29 CFR part 4\, rebate, or kickback on any account. These payments shall be made 110 later than one pay period following the end of the regular pay period in which the wages were earned or accrued. A pay period under this Act may not be of any duration longer than semi-monthly.
(k) Withholding of payments and termination of contract. The Contracting Officer shall

withhold from the prime Contractor under this or any other Court contract with the prime contractor any sums the Contracting Officer, or an appropriate officer of the Labor Department, decides may be necessary to pay underpaid employees of the Contractor or subcontractor. In the event of failure to pay any employees subject to the Act all or part of the wages or fringe benefits due under the Act. the Contracting Officer may, after authorization or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification to the Contractor, take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such violations have ceased. Additionally, any failure to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for termination for default. In such event, the Court may enter into other contracts or arrangements for completion of the work, chargingthe Contractor in default with any additional cost.
(I) Subcontracts The Contractor agrees to insert this clause in all subcontracts.
(m)

Contractor's report.
II) If there is a wage determination attachment to this contract and any classes of service employees not listed on it arc to be employed under the contract. the Contractor shall report promptly to the Contracting Officer the wages to be paid and the fringe benefits to be provided each of these classes. when determined under paragraph (c) or this clause.

-, I

It) be paid or fringe benefits to be furnished any service employees under the cornracr arc covered in a collective bargaining agreement effective at any time when the contract is being performed. the Contractor shall provide to the Contracting Officer a copy of the agreement and full information on the application and accrual of wages and benefits (including any prospective increases) to service employees working on the contract, The Contractor shall report when contract performance begins. in the case of agreements then in effect. and shall report subsequently effective agreements. provisions. or amendments promptly after they are negotiated.

(2) lfwages

(n) Contractor's Certification. By entering into this contract. the Contractor (and officials thereof) certifies that neither it (nor he or she) nor any person or firm who has a substantial interest in the Contractor's firm is a person or firm ineligible ro be awarded Court contracts by virtue of the sanerions imposed under section 5 of the Act. No part of this contract shall be subcontracted In any person or firm ineligible for award of a Court contract under section 5 of the Act. The penalty for making false statements is prescribed in the D.C. Code § 22-2405.
(0) Variations. tolerances, and exemptions involving employment. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in paragraphs (c) through (I) of this clause, the following employees may be employed in accordance with the following variations. tolerances, and exemptions authorized by the Secretary of Labor.

(I) In accordance with regulations issued under Section 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, ESA (29 eFR parts

520, 521. 524, and 525), apprentices. student learners, and workers whose earning capacity is impaired by age or by physical or mental deficiency or injury. may be employed at wages lower than the minimum wages otherwise required by section 2(a)( I) or 2(b)( I) of the Service Contract Act. without diminishing any fringe benefits or payments in lieu of these benefits required under section 2(a)(2) of the Act.
(-.+) The Administrator will issue certificates under the ACI for employing apprentices,

studeut-learners, handicapped persons. or handicapped clients of sheltered workshops not subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. or subject to different minimum rates of pay under the two acts. authorizing appropriate rates of minimum wages, but without changing requirements concerning fringe benefits or supplementary cash payments in lieu of these benefits.
(3) The Administrator max also withdraw. annul. or cancel such certificates under 29

CFR parts 525 and 528. . (p) Tips. An employee engaged ill an occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly receives more than S30 a month in tips shall be credited by the employer against the minimum wage required by section 2(aH 1.\ or section 2(b)( I) of the ACL in accordance with regulations in 29 CFR part 531. However, the amount of credit shall not exceed 40 percent of the minimum rate specified in section 6{a)( 1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 as amended,

,.,
 .

28. WALSH-HEALEY PUBLIC CONTR-\CTS ACT:

(a) All representations and stipulations required b) the Act and regulations issued by the Secretary of labor (.:lˇ1 ClR Chapter 50) are incorporated by reference. These representations and stipulations arc subject to all applicable rulings and interpretations of thc Secretary of Labor that arc ]1l1W. or Jl1a~ hereafter. be in effect. All employees whose work relates to this contract shall be paid not less than the minimum wage prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 50 202.2). Learners, student learners. apprentices. and handicapped workers may be employed at less than the prescribed minimum wage (see 41 CFR 50-202.3) to the same extent that such employment is permitted under Section 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act (41 U.S.c. 40).
(b)

29. Governing Law. This contract shall be governed by the laws of the District of Columbia both as to interpretation and performance.

30. Multh'ear Contract.
If this contract is a multiyear contract. then the following provision is made part of this contract: If funds are not appropriated or otherwise made available for the continued performance in a subsequent year of a multiyear contract, the contract for the subsequent year shall be terminated, either automatically or in accordance with the termination clause of the: contract. Unless otherwise provided for in the contract. the effect of termination is to discharge both the Court and the Contractor from future performance of the contract. but not from the existing obligations. The Contractor shall be reimbursed for the reasonable value of any non-recurring costs incurred but not amortized in the price of the supplies or services delivered under the contract.

23

ATTACHMENT J.2 ANTI-COLLUSION STATEMENT TO ALL BIDDERS/OFFERORS: TIDS STATEMENT MUST BE EXECUTED AND RETIJRNED WITH BID/PROPOSAL DOCUMENTS. _ In the preparation and submission of this bid/proposal on behalf of (name of vendor), we did not either directly or indirectly enter into any combination or arrangement with any person, firm or corporation, or enter into any agreement, participate in any collusion, or otherwise take any action in the restraint of free competition in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, 15 USCS, Sections I et seq. The undersigned vendor hereby certifies that this agreement, or any claims resulting therefrom, is not the result of, or affected by, any act of collusion with, or any act of, another person or persons, firm or corporation engaged in the same Line of business or commerce; and that no person acting for, or employed by the D.C. Courts has an interest in, or is concerned with this proposal; and that no persons, finn or corporation, other than the undersigned, have or are interested in this proposal.
BY: _

COMPANY


BUSINESS ADDRESS

Subscribed and sworn before me this _ _ day of

, 20_ _ , in

City and State

Notary Public

ATIACHMENT J.3

ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING
A. To achieve the purpose of this section, all employees and persons doing business with the Court shall be required to observe the ethical standards prescribed herein. The Executive Officer shall make available and disseminate to every person doing business with the Court, and to every Court managerial employee with procurement responsibilities, the requirements of this section.
It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any employee to participate directly or indirectly in a procurement when the employee knows that the employee or any member of the employee's immediate family has a financial interest pertaining to the procurement. When a Coon employee knows that he or she has an actual or potential conflict of interest, or when the Executive Officer has determined that an actual conflict of interest exists, such employee shall be disqualified from the procurement involved. It shall be a breach of ethical standards for person to offer, give, or agree to give any employee or former employee, or for any employee to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept from anther person, a gratuity or an offer of employment in connection with any decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, preparation of any pan of procurement.

B.

C.

D.

It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any payment, gratuity, or offer of employment to be made by or on behalf of a subcontractor under a contract to the prime contractor, or higher tier subcontractor, as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order. It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any employee, former employee or any other person knowingly to use confidential information for actual or anticipated personal gain. No employee or officer of the Coon shall serve on the board of directors or other governing body (whether or not compensated) of any contractor with whom the Court has a current contractual relationship if the individual's responsibilities with the Court entail the lening or management of the contract.

E.

BY:

COMPANY


ATTACHMENT J.4

NON DISCRIMINATION

Employment discrimination by contractor is prohibited. Every contract over $10.000.00 shall include or incorporate by reference the following provisions: 1. During the performance of this contract, the Contractor agrees as follows: a. The Contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, color, sex, or national origin, except where religion, sex, or national origin is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the Contractor. The Contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places. available to employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. The Contractor, in all solicitations or advenisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor. will state that such Contractor is an equal opportunity employer. Notices, advertisements, and solicitations placed in accordance with federal law, rule, or regulation shall be deemed sufficient for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this section. The Contractor will include the provisions of the foregoing paragraphs, a, b, and c in every subcontract or purchase order of over $10,000.00, so that the provisions will be binding upon each subcontract or vendor.

b.

c.

2.

BY:

COMPANY


ATIACHMEl''T J.S CERTIFICATION OF ELIGffiILITY
PROJECT NAME: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , being duly sworn, or under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States, certifies that, except as noted below, (the company) or any person associated therewith in the capacity of (owner, partner, director, officer, principal investigator. project director. manager, auditor, or any position involving the administration of federal funds) is not currently under suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion, or determination of ineligibility under any Federal, District or State statutes; has not been suspended, debarred voluntarily excluded or determined ineligible by any Federal, District, or Stage agency within the past three (3) years; does not have a proposed debarment pending; and has not been indicted, convicted; or has a Civil judgment rendered against it by a Court of competentjurisdiction in any matter involving fraud or official misconduct within the past three (3) years. Exceptions will not necessarily result in denial of award, but will be considered in determining bidder responsibility. For any exception noted, indicate below to whom it applies, initiating agency, and dates of action. Providing false information may result in criminal prosecution or administrative sanctions. Contractor Date President or Authorized Official Title The penalties for making false statements are prescribed in the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-509,31 U.S.C. 3801-3812). Subscribed and sworn before me this City and State day of , 20_ _, in

Notary Seal

Notary Public

ATTCHMENT J.6 TAX CERTIFICATION AFFIDAVIT

For all bids/offers over 100,000.00, the following affidavit is required: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , 20

I hereby certify that:
1. 1 have complied with the applicable tax law fillings and licensing requirements of the District of Columbia. The following inf~rmation is true and correct concerning the payment of my tax liability:

2.

State: ----:----------- Unemployment Insurance
3.

o Current
_

o

0 Not Current Current 0 Not Current

If not current, as checked in Item 2, I am in compliance with a payment agreement with the Department of Finance and Revenue 0 Yes 0 No, and/or the Deparnnent of Yes 0 No. Employment Services 0

4.

My tax nwnbers are as follows: D.C. Employer Tax ID No.: Unemployment Insurance Account No.: D-U-N-S No.: _ _

-------------------------

The D.C. Courts is hereby authorized to verify the above information with appropriate Government authorities. Penalty of making false statements is a fine of not more than $1,000.00, imprisonment for not more than one (1) year or both, as prescribed in D.C. Code Sec. 22-2514. Penalty for false swearing is a fine of not more than $2,500.00, imprisonment for not more than three (3) years, or both, as prescribed in D.C. Code Sec. 22-2513.

Signature of Person Authorized to Sign This Document

Title

Typed or Printed Name

Name of Organization

_

Notary: Subscribed and sworn before me this _day of at _ _-:-:Month and Year City and State

, 20 at _

Attachment J.7

CERTIFICAnON REGARDING A DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
A. Definition as used in this provision: "Controlled substance" means a controlled substance as defined in Schedules I through V of Section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.c. 812) and as further defined in the regulation at 21 CPR 1308.11 - 1308.15. "Conviction" means a finding ofguilt (including a plea of nolo contenders) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes. "Drug free workplace" means a site for the performance of work done in connections with a specific contract at which employees of the Contractor are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use ofa controlled substance. "Employee" means an employee of a Contractor directed engaged in the performance of work under a D.C. Courts contract. "Individual" means a bidder/otTeror that has no more than one employee including the bidder/otTeror.
B.

By submission of its bid/offer, the bidder/offeror, if other than an individual who is making a bid/otTer that equals or exceeds $25,000.00, certifies and agrees that with respect to all employees of the bidder/otTeror to be employed under a contract resulting from this solicitation will:
(1)

Publish a statement notifying such employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the Contractor's work place and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of each prohibition: Establish a drug-free awareness program to inform such employees about: (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; The Contractor's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee assistance programs: and The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations in the workplace:

(2)

(3) (4)

Provide all employees engaged in performance of the contract with a copy of the statement required by subparagraph (B), (1) of this provision; Notifying such employees in the statement required by subparagraph (b), (I) of this provision, that as a condition ofcontinued employment on the contract resulting from this solicitation, the employee will:
(i)

Abide by the tenus of the statement; and

(ii)

Notify the employer of any criminal drug statue conviction for violation occurring in the work place no later than five (5) days after such conviction;

(5)

Notify the Contracting Officer within ten (10) days after receiving notice under subdivision (B), (4), (ii) of this provision from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction; Within thirty (30) days after receiving notice under subparagraph (B), (4) of this provision of a conviction, impose the following sanctions or remedial measures on any employee who isconvicted ofdrug abuse violationsoccurring inthe work place: (i) Take appropriatepersonnel action against such employee up to and including termination: or Require such employee to satisfactorily participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purpose by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement or other appropriate agency; and

(6)

(ii)

(7)

Make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of subparagraphs (B), (I) through (B), (6) of this provision.

C.

By submission of its bid/offer,the bidder/offeror, ifan individual, who is makinga bid/offer of any dolIar value, certifies and agrees that the bidder/offeror will not engage in the unlawful manufacturedistribution,dispensing, possession or use ofa controlledsubstance in the performance of the contract resulting from this solicitation. Failure ofthe bidder/offeror to provide the certification required by paragraphs (B) or (C) of theses provisions, renders the bidder/offeror unqualified and ineligible for award. In addition to other remedies available to the D.C. Courts, the certification in paragraphs (8) and (C) ofthis provision concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency ofthe United States and the making of a false, fictitious or fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001.

D.

E.

Concurrence:

AUTHORIZED CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL
Name: Signature: Title: Date:

ATTACHMENT J. 8

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS
 RELEASE OF CLAIMS


The undersigned Contractor, pursuant to the term of Contract No. between the District of Columbia Courts herein referred to as the "Courts' and - - - - - - - - - - - - - -(Name --- - - - - - - - - - - - herein of Contractor) referred to as the "Contractor" for (type of service):

Located at:

-------------------------------

I.

The Contractor hereby certified that there is due and payable by the Courts to the Contractor under the contract and fully approved modifications the balance of:

$-----------
2. The Contractor further certified that in addition to the amount set forth in paragraph I above, there are outstanding and unsettled the following items which the Contractor claims are just and due and owing by the Courts to the Contractor:
(a)

(b) (c) (d)

(Itemize claims and amounts due. If none, so state) 3. The contractor further certified that all work required under this contract including work required under all modifications has been performed in accordance with the terms thereof and that there are no unpaid claims for materials, supplies, equipment. or service. Except for the amounts stated in paragraph I and 2 above, the Contractor certifies that it has received from the Courts all sums of money pursuant to the above mentioned contract and any modifications.

4.

-2

5.

That in consideration of the payment of the amount stated in paragraph I above, the Contractor does hereby release the Courts from any and all claims arising under or by virtue of this contract. Except the amount listed in paragraph 2 above, provided however, that iffor any reason the Courts does not pay in full the amount stated in paragraph I above, said deduction shall not affect the validity of this release. But the amount so deducted shall be automatically included under paragraph 2 above, as an amount which the Contractor has not released but will release upon payment thereof. The Contractor further certifies that upon receipt of the payment of the amount listed in paragraph 2 above, and any amount with may be deducted from paragraph I above, the Contractor will release the Courts from any and all claims arising out of the above contract or any modifications thereof, and will execute such further release or assurance as the Courts may request. day

In WITNESS WHEREOF, the Contractor has signed and sealed this instrument this of ,20- - - -

WITNESS:

CONTRACTOR:

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(Seal) (Print of Type) (Signature)

(Signature)

(Address)

(Official Title)

ATTACHMENT J.9 PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION FORM
(Check appropriate box)

Page I of2

Performance Elements Quality of Service Timeliness of Performance Cost Control

Excellent

Good

Acceptable

Poor

Unacceptable

Business Relations Customer Satisfaction

1. Name & Title of Evaluator:

-----------------_ _ _ _ _

2. Signature of Evaluator: 3. Name of Organization: 4. Telephone Number of Evaluator: 5. State type of service received: 6. State Contract Number, Amount and period of Performance

7. Remarks on Excellent Performance: Provide data supporting this observation. (Continue on separate sheet if needed)

8. Remarks on unacceptable performance: Provide data supporting this observation. (Continue on separate sheet if needed)

ˇ
RAriNG GUIDeliNES
Quality

ˇ
TIlMIess
Cost Control
of Performance

Page 2 of 2

Summarize Contractor performance in each of the rating areas. Assign each area a rating of 0 (Unacceptable). 1 (Poor), 2 (Acceptable), 3 (Good), 4(Excellent), or ++ (Plus). Use the following instructions a guidance in making these evaluations.

Produet/Servll:e

Business Relations

-WrttW1 budget (overt uncW target costs) -Gunw1t, ~, Ind
~1IIings -ReIaIIonship of negated costs to aclUIII

-MeetIrUIim mIIeatones
-ReIIble P lip III lINe
10

-a...... corr..pondence
-R8Ipalllive to conIract
.PrampI notitc8tion of conlr8d
prabIems
~

-eftdve~(

we:hnic:III

dnc:tians
~ontirne.

-Cost etIiciellCie& -O\8nge order Issue

including Wf'lIP"UP 8fId -ccnnct 8dminls1nIlion
-No liquidM.cl damegea
..-sed

-RNIonIbIeIc:ooperalive
ˇF1eJibIe ˇPnHctiwI ..tI8c:IN8Wi........ reWlmlIIIlIled IOfuliOn$ .atecIive ....,.,.,.. disacMntIIged ~

Subcollncting IJIOl18m
O.laro Nonconfonnances . . comprises
the ac:tMvwnent aI conlnICt 1'IIQUIrwnents, despite use of AQetw;y
1, \Jrwc:ceptable

_n:es

0Uys .,.. c:ompri$ing Ihe ~of contr8d 1'IlqIftmentI. DeIpite use of AqtIN;y resources.

Raponae '" Inquirie5. ledlnicaII ~ issues is nal4lltec:tiw 8nd .-ponsNe.

Nonc:onIon'nano require ma;or AQertey resources to enswe adlieYement of c:onlnIct
requirernenls.

Cost ~ require major DeiayI ,.quiI'8 ITIIIjor response to irlquines. tee:hnicaII Ar;Janc:r /8IClUrC8$ to ensure /v;Itrtcy_ to ensure HNlceIeclmilllatl. . . 1...- is ac:I1leIIement of contrac:t ae:tIiewrn8C1l of contnIct Il\8I'IIlMIY eIfecliYe md
1'8QUitements. Costs issues ,.quire minor Ageney I'MOUIC8S to achie\Iement 01 contr8d 1'lIqUltecnents.

reQUirements.

2. Poor

Nonconbmanc:es '-luil'8 minor Agenr:r I'8IOUl'C8S to eosure ~ of conlnIct requirernenta.

_1'8

DeIaya r8qUire minor
1'o(JfIrCt requirements.

lIChiewment 01c:ontnIct

_10....
not delays.

respor1Ilve.

Respon&eIto Wlquiries. technical s ~ luua Is
sOlMllihll efJec:tiye Ind responINe.

3. Acceptable

NonconIorm8nc:es do
requimnentll.

not impect

ac:hievement of contr8d
4. Good

Coat Issu. do not impac:t ec:tlIcMrnent aI contract
flQUiremenls

ResponHS to inquires, teeIYIicaI _wIcefecimiIllatniIlw _ _ is
usUllly eIIlIclMt 8nd responsMI.

There . . no quelity problems

There ... no cost issues.

There _

R8IpoI.- '" 1nqulriM, -=tv1ic2
s~iauesis

etfective and responsive.
5. Excellent

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD FOR SUPPLIES, OR SERVICES
ISSUED BY: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIVISION PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTS BRANCH 616 H STREET, N.W., ROOM 622 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20001 DATE ISSUED: 04/14/2011 OPENING DATE: ___________ OPENING TIME: ____________ CLOSING DATE: 05/02/2011 CLOSING TIME: 1:00 P.M, EST. MARKET TYPE: OPEN

SOLICITATION NUMBER: CSP-11-029 OFFER/BID FOR: TAPE BACKUP SOLUTION

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(X) X X X X X X SEC. A B C D E F G DESCRIPTION Solicitation/Offer/Award Form Supplies or Services & Price /Cost Description/Specs. Work Statement Packaging and Marking Inspection and Acceptance Deliveries and Performance Contract Administration Data PAGE 1 6 7 12 13 14 16 (X) X X X X X X SEC. H I J K L M DESCRIPTION Special Contract Requirements Contract Clauses List of Attachments Representation Certificates Instructions, Conditions, Notices Evaluation Factors for Award PAGE 20 22 30 31 35 46

OFFER (TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR) Note: In sealed bid solicitations "Offer" and Offeror" mean Bid" and Bidder." The undersigned offers and agrees that, with respect to all terms and conditions accepted by the Courts under AWARD below, this offer and the provisions of the RFP/IFB will constitute a Formal Contract. Name and title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer: OFFEROR (Type or Print) Name: Street: City, State: Zip Code: Signature Date:

(Seal) Area Code & Telephone Number: Impress Corporate Seal Corporate (Seal) (Secretary) _____________________________________ (Attest)

AWARD (To be completed by the District of Columbia Courts)

CONTRACT NO._________________________________________________AWARD AMOUNT $____________________________ ACCEPTED AS TO THE FOLLOWING ITEMS: ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS BY:______________________________________ CONTRACTING OFFICER _________________________________________ AWARD DATE

CONTRACT PERIOD: __________________________________________

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

All written communications regarding this solicitation should be addressed to the Contracting Officer at the mailing address listed on page 1. All communications should be directed by email to Maribel Torres, Senior Contract Specialist at maribel.torres@dcsc.gov. This solicitation is an OPEN MARKET procurement. REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 1. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS The Offeror acknowledges receipt of Addenda to the solicitation and related documents numbered and dated as follows:

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

NOTE: 2.

Offeror may acknowledge addendum here or on addendum or both.

WALSH-HEALY ACT If your offer is $10,000 or more, the following information MUST be furnished: (a) Regular Dealer ( ) ( ) The Offeror is a Regular Dealer pursuant to Clause 28 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions. The Offeror is not a Regular Dealer pursuant to Clause 28 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions.

(b)

Manufacturer ( ) The Offeror is a Manufacturer pursuant to Clause 28 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions. Page 2 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

( )

The Offeror is not a Manufacturer pursuant to Clause 28 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions.

3.

BUY AMERICAN CERTIFICATION

The Offeror hereby certifies that each end product, except the end products listed below, is a domestic end product (as defined in Clause 28 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions ), and that components of unknown origin are considered to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. ________________________________________________________________________ EXCLUDED END PRODUCTS COUNTRY OR ORIGIN ________________________________________________________________________ 4. OFFICERS NOT TO BENEFIT CERTIFICATION Each Offeror shall check one of the following: ____ (a) No person listed in Clause 21 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions will benefit from this contract. The following person(s) listed in Clause 21 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions may benefit from this contract. For each person listed, attach the affidavit required by Clause 21 of the District of Columbia Courts General Contract Provisions.

____ (b)

5.

CERTIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT PRICE DETERMINATION (a) Each signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory that: (1) The prices in this offer have been arrived at independently, without, for the purpose of restricting competition, any consultation, communication, or agreement with any Offeror or competitor relating to (i) those prices, (ii) the intention to submit an offer, or (iii) the methods or factors used to calculate the prices offer; The prices in this offer have not been and will not be knowingly disclosed by the Offeror, directly or indirectly, to any other Offeror or competitor before offer opening unless otherwise required by law; and

(2)

Page 3 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

(3)

No attempt has been made or will be made by the Offeror to induce any other concern to submit or not to submit an offer for the purpose of restricting competition.

(b)

Each signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory that the signatory; (1) Is the person in the Offeror`s organization responsible for determining the prices being offered in this offer, and that the signatory has not participated and will not participate in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a) (1) through (a) (3) above; or (i) Has been authorized, in writing, to act as agent for the following principals in certifying that those principals have not participated, and will not participate in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a) (1) through (a) (3) above: __________________________________________ (insert full name or person(s) in the organization responsible for determining the prices offered in this offer and the title of his or her position in the Offeror`s organization); (ii) As an authorized agent, does certify that the principals named in subdivision (b) (2) (1) above have not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a) (1) through (a) (3) above; and As an agent, has not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a) (1) through (a) (3) above.

(2)

(iii)

(c)

If Offeror deletes or modifies subparagraph (a) (2) above, the Offeror must furnish with its offer a signed statement setting forth in detail the circumstances of the disclosure.

4.

TYPE OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATION Offeror operates as ( ) an individual, ( ) a partnership, ( ) a nonprofit organization, ( ) a corporation, incorporated under the laws of the State of ___________________, ( ) a joint venture, ( ) other.

Page 4 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

5.

PAYMENT IDENTIFICATION NO. The District of Columbia Courts utilizes an automated vendor database. All firms are required to submit their Federal Tax Identification Number. Individuals must submit their social security numbers. Please list below applicable vendor information: Federal Tax Identification Number: ___________________________________________ Or Social Security Number: ____________________________________________ Dun and Bradstreet Number: _____________________________________________ Legal Name of Entity Assigned this Number: ___________________________________ Street Address and/or Mailing Address: _______________________________________ City, State, and Zip Code: __________________________________________________ Type of Business: _________________________________________________________ Telephone Number: _______________________________________________________ Fax Number: _______________________________________________________

PAYMENTS UNDER TERMS OF ANY CONTRACT RESULTING FROM THIS SOLICITATION WILL BE HELD IN ABEYANCE PENDING RECEIPT OF A VALID FEDERAL TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.

Page 5 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART I SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST B.1 The District of Columbia Courts (the Courts) is seeking a qualified Contractor to provide a comprehensive tape backup solution. The Courts contemplates award of a fixed price contract as a result of this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose offer is most advantageous to the Courts. The Offeror shall submit a price for the services/supplies specified below and in accordance with Section C, Scope of Services, of this solicitation. CONTRACT PERIOD

B.2

B.3

B.4

B.4.1 The term of the contract shall be for a period of three years from date of award specified on the cover page of this contract. B.5 PRICE/COST SCHEDULE

Table B.5.1 Base Period ­ 3 Years Unit Price

Item # 0001 0001a 0001b 0001c 0002 0003

Item Description Professional Services Project Plan, Implementation Plan, &Test Plan Installation & Testing Documentation and Postimplementation Training Hardware (with maintenance, support, warranties, licenses ­ as applicable) Software (with maintenance, support, warranties, licenses ­ as applicable)

Quantity

Total Price

N/A $___________ $___________ $___________ $___________

Total $___________

Page 6 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT C.1 SCOPE

C.1.1 The District of Columbia Courts, Administrative Services Division, Procurement and Contracts Branch, on behalf of the IT Division (the Courts) is seeking a Contractor to provide a comprehensive tape backup solution to integrate with its existing hardware and software architecture/platforms. C.1.2 The focus of this Request for Proposal (RFP) is on a tape backup solution that, at a minimum, includes the following: all necessary software and licenses; hardware; maintenance, support and warranties; installation services; documentation for both configurations and operating procedures; and customized post-implementation training. C.2 BACKGROUND

C.2.1 The Courts, the judicial branch of the District of Columbia government, is comprised of the Court of Appeals, the highest court of the Courts; the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, a trial court with general jurisdiction over virtually all local legal matters; and the Court System, which provides administrative support functions of both Courts. Its mission is to protect rights and liberties, uphold and interpret the law, and resolve disputes peacefully, fairly and effectively in the nation's capital. The Courts` mission and its operations rely heavily on information technology (IT), and the organization`s dependence on technology will continue into the future. C.2.2 The Courts has two data centers-- a Production (primary) data center located at 500 Indiana Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001 and a Disaster Recover (DR) site located in Germantown, MD. (See Figure C.2.2 below.) C.2.3 The Courts estimates that is has approximately 10TB of data. There have been significant challenges with backing up and recovering the data. C.2.3.1 NetApp auto-support logs have been provided in Supplement C.2.3 - Auto Support Logs to assist Contractors in more accurately estimating the amount of data. (The logs were generated on March 30, 2011.) C.2.4 A NetApp storage and backup solution is currently in place. The Courts is looking not to replace NetApp, but to integrate a tape backup solution to help optimize the storage space required on the NetApp equipment. C.2.4.1 The following NetApp technologies are implemented in the Courts` environment: Page 7 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SnapMirror, SnapVault, SnapDrive, SnapManager for Exchange, and SnapManager for SQL. The tape backup solution shall be able to integrate with all NetApp Snap* products. Figure C.2.2

(As of March 2011) C.3 CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS

C.3.1 The Contractor must demonstrate relevant experience with recent projects of similar nature and scope and size pertaining to providing comprehensive tape backup solutions in a NetApp environment to federal or local government agencies. At a minimum, the Contractor shall demonstrate relevant experience in the following areas: C.3.1.1 Implementing tape backup solutions (hardware and software) that allow full utilization of NetApp`s Snap* features for both CIFS as well as SAN-attached LUN data without custom scripting; C.3.1.2 Implementing tape backup solutions that provide bare-metal restore capabilities;

Page 8 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

C.3.1.3 Performing installations with minimal or no impact to production networks, systems, and operations; C.3.1.4 Implementing tape backup solutions that are highly automated, stable, and portable; C.3.1.5 Providing quality, customer-specific, post-implementation training on tape backup solutions. C.4 REQUIREMENTS

C.4.1 The Contractor shall provide a tape backup solution that will allow for the following backup rotation schedules and retention periods for each of its four (4) data sets. Each data set shall be stored on a separate tape. C.4.1.1 Annual ­ Tapes are to be retained for five (5) years. C.4.1.2 Monthly ­ Tapes are to be retained for twelve (12) months. C.4.1.3 Weekly ­ Tapes are to be retained for four (4) weeks. C.4.1.4 Daily ­ Tapes are to be retained for seven (7) days. C.4.2 The Contractor shall provide a comprehensive backup solution that includes all hardware and software required to connect to the Courts` infrastructure and backup the Courts` data. At a minimum, the solution shall include the items in listed in Sections C.4.2.1 C.4.2.3. The Contractor bears the responsibility of ensuring that all hardware and software needs are met; C.4.2.1 The Contractor shall provide a tape backup unit that is rack-mountable for a rack with the following dimensions: 32, 40, and 80 for the width, depth, and height, respectively; C.4.2.2 The Contractor shall provide backup media; C.4.2.2.1 The Contractor shall provide the Courts with media in the necessary quantity and with the necessary capacity to allow for efficient rotation and retention based on the requirements stated in Section C.4.1; C.4.2.2.1.1 The Contractor shall provide detailed information on how the quantity and capacity of the tapes were estimated; C.4.2.2.1.2 The Contractor shall clearly differentiate between compressed and uncompressed Page 9 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

options when referring to storage capacities; C.4.2.3 The Contractor shall provide backup software that will allow full utilization of NetApp`s Snap* features for both CIFS as well as SAN-attached LUN data without custom scripting; C.4.3 The Contractor shall ensure that the backup solution is portable, allowing for use in disaster recovery efforts; C.4.4 The Contractor shall develop detailed documentation for the configuration of and operating procedures for the Courts` tape backup solution; C.4.4.1 The documentation shall be specific to the Courts` implementation; C.4.4.2 At a minimum, the configuration documentation shall provide, via concise language and screenshots, clear information on the following: all customized (non-default) settings along with rational for the relative settings; how and when to change the configuration settings; and anything else the Contractor deems relevant and helpful from a configuration perspective; C.4.4.3 At a minimum, the operating procedures documentation shall provide, via concise language and screenshots, clear instructions for the following: rotating and changing tapes; monitoring backup job status; rectifying common problems with backup jobs; creating, scheduling, pausing, and cancelling backup jobs; restoring data from tape backups, and anything else the Contractor deems relevant and helpful from an operations perspective; C.4.5 The Contractor shall provide two (2) days of training; C.4.5.1 The training shall be specific to the Courts` technology environment and tape backup solution; C.4.5.2 The documentation from Section C.4.4 shall be covered in the training sessions; C.4.6 The tape solution shall be implemented within three (3) months of the contract award. (Note: The three-year performance period takes into account the desired maintenance/warranty duration.) C.4.7 The Contractor shall provide the following maintenance/warranty for the hardware: same business-day on-site services/repairs, at a minimum service level (response time objective) of five 5x9x4 as well as 7x24 telephone/email support;

Page 10 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

C.4.7.1 The service level in Section C.4.7 shall be interpreted as Days-per-week (M-F) by Hours-per-day (Business hours) by Response-time-objective or (DxHxR). C.4.8 The Contractor shall provide all items in Section H.6 Contractor Responsibilities.

END OF CLAUSE

Page 11 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART 1 SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING (Not applicable to this procurement)

Page 12 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

E.1

Inspection of Services (a) Services as used in this clause includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or utilized in the performance of services. (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Court covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Court during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) The Court has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The Court will perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) If the Court performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, without additional charge, all reasonable facilities, and assistance for the safety and convenient performance of these duties. (e) If any of the services do not conform to the contract requirements, the Court may require the Contractor to perform these services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by performance, the Court may require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements and reduce the contract price to reflect value of services performed. (f) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity to contract requirements, the Court may (1) by contract or otherwise, perform the services and charge the Contractor any cost incurred by the Court that is directly related to the performance of such services, or (2) terminate the contract for default.

Page 13 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SECTION F - DELIVERIES AND PERFORMANCE F.1 Term of Contract:

F.1.1 The term of the contract shall be three (3) years from the date of award. The date of award shall be the date the Contracting Officer signs the contract document. F.2 Option To Extend The Term Of The Contract

F.2.1 Not applicable. F.3 Deliverables: All deliverables shall be in a form and manner acceptable to the Courts. The Contractor shall complete the tasks and provide to the Contract Administrator (CA) the deliverables specified below within the designated and/or agreed upon time frames: CLIN Deliverable Project Schedule Quantity 1 Format/Method of Delivery Microsoft Project 2007 (soft copy) Due Date Two (2) weeks from date of award TBD (as per agreed upon project schedule) TBD (as per agreed upon project schedule) TBD (as per agreed upon project schedule) To Whom CA

Implementation Plan 0001a Test Plan

1

Microsoft Word 2007 (soft copy)

CA

1

Microsoft Word 2007 (soft copy)

CA

0001b

Installation & Testing Services

N/A

Professional Services (as agreed upon in the contract)

CA

Page 14 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

CLIN 0001c

Deliverable Documentation (for both configuration and operating procedures) Postimplementation Training

Quantity 3

Format/Method of Delivery Hard copies (bound)

Due Date TBD (as per agreed upon project schedule) TBD

To Whom CA

1

Microsoft Word 2007 (soft copy)

2

0002

Hardware (with maintenance, support, warranties, licenses ­ as applicable) Software (with maintenance, support, warranties, licenses ­ as applicable)

TBD

Two (2) days of inperson training on the Courts` premises (as per agreed upon (as agreed upon in project the contract) schedule) Physical hardware TBD and valid proof of maintenance/support (as per agreements, agreed upon warranties, licenses project schedule)

CA

CA

0003

TBD

Software and valid proof of maintenance/support agreements, warranties, licenses

TBD (as per agreed upon project schedule)

CA

Page 15 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SECTION G -CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G.1 Payment/Invoices

G.1.1 The Contractor shall be compensated in the following manner: Contractor shall submit to the Contract Administrator a breakdown of all services performed for review. The Courts will make payments to the Contractor, upon the submission of proper invoices, at the prices stipulated in this contract, for supplies delivered and accepted or services performed and accepted, less any discounts, allowances or adjustments provided for in this contract. G.1.2 The Courts will pay the Contractor on or before the 30th day after receiving a proper invoice from the Contractor.

G.2

Invoice Submittal

G.2.1 The Contractor shall submit proper invoices on a monthly basis or as otherwise specified in Section G.6. Invoices shall be prepared in duplicate and submitted to the Budget and Finance Division with concurrent copies to the Contract (CA) specified in Section G.9 below. The address of the Budget and Finance Division is: Name: Budget and Finance Division District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, NW 6th Floor, Suite 600 Washington, DC 20001 G.3 To constitute a proper invoice, the Contractor's invoice shall include the following information on the invoice: a. Name and address of the Contractor, Federal ID and invoice date and number; b. The contract number and Contract Order number; c. Description, , price, quantity, and the date(s) that the supplies or services were delivered or performed: d. Date the services or supplies were rendered; e. Other supporting documentation or information, as required by the Contracting Officer; f. Name, title, telephone number and complete mailing address of the responsible official to whom payment is to be sent; g. Name, title, phone number of person preparing the invoice;

Page 16 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

h. Name, title, phone number and mailing address of person (if different from the person identified in g above) to be notified in the event of a defective invoice; and i. Authorized signature. G.4 G.5 The Contractor shall submit final invoices within thirty (30) days after the expiration of this contract. In addition, the Contractor shall complete Attachment J.8 - District of Columbia Courts Release of Claims form and submit to the Contracting Officer. Payment

G.6

G.6.1 Payment to the Contractor for services satisfactorily performed shall be made by the Courts once the Contractor`s certified invoice has been approved by the Contract Administrator, or in the case of a dispute, subject to final determination by the Contracting Officer. G.6.2 Payment Schedule CLIN Deliverable 0001a Finalized and approved Project Schedule, Implementation Plan, and Test Plan % Comments Project Schedule due two (2) weeks from date of award Timeline to be specified in Contractor`s Project Schedule and agreed to by the Courts Timeline to be specified in Contractor`s Project Schedule and agreed to by the Courts

N/A

0001b Installation and Testing Services

G.7

100% Cost as agreed upon in the contract (upon acceptable delivery) 0001c Documentation and Post100% Cost as agreed implementation Training upon in the contract (upon acceptable delivery) 0002 Delivery of Hardware (w/ valid proof of 100% Cost as agreed maintenance/support agreements, upon in the contract warranties, licenses) (upon acceptable delivery) 0003 Delivery of Software (w/ valid proof of 100% Cost as agreed maintenance/support agreements, upon in the contract warranties, licenses) (upon acceptable delivery) Contracting Officer (CO) Page 17 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

G.7.1 The District of Columbia Superior Court Contracting Officer who has the appropriate contracting authority is the only Courts official authorized to contractually bind the Courts through signing contract documents. The contact information for the Contracting Officer is: Louis W. Parker Administrative Officer Administrative Services Division District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 G.8 Authorized Changes by the Contracting Officer

G.8.1 The Co is the only person authorized to approve changes in any of the requirements of this contract. G.8.2 The Contractor shall not comply with any order, directive or request that changes or modifies the requirements of this contract, unless issued in writing and signed by the CO. G.8.3 In the event the Contractor effects any change at the instruction or request of any person other than the CO, the change will be considered to have been made without authority and no adjustment will be made in the contract price to cover any cost increase incurred as a result thereof. G.9 Contracting Administrator (CA)

G.9.1 The CA is responsible for general administration of the contract and advising the CO as to the Contractor`s compliance or noncompliance with the contract. The CA has the responsibility of ensuring the work conforms to the requirements of the contract and such other responsibilities and authorities as may be specified in the contract. These include: G.9.1.1 Keeping the CO fully informed of any technical or contractual difficulties encountered during the performance period and advising the CO of any potential problem areas under the contract; G.9.1.2 Coordinating site entry for Contractor personnel, if applicable; G.9.1.3 Reviewing invoices for completed work and recommending approval by the CO if the Contractor`s costs are consistent with the negotiated amounts and progress is satisfactory and commensurate with the rate of expenditure; G.9.1.4 Reviewing and approving invoices for deliverables to ensure receipt of goods and services. This includes the timely processing of invoices and vouchers in accordance with the Courts payment provisions; and Page 18 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

G.9.1.5 Maintaining a file that includes all contract correspondence, modifications, records of inspections (site, data, equipment) and invoice or vouchers. G.9.2 The address and telephone number of the CA is: NAME: Clide Cork, Jr. TITLE: Project Manager, Infrastructure DIVISION: Information & Technology ADDRESS: 500 Indiana Avenue NW Washington, DC 20001 Telephone Number: 202-879-0037 Email: Clide.Cork@dcsc.gov G.9.3 The CA shall NOT have the authority to: 1. Award, agree to, or sign any contract, delivery order or task order. Only the CO shall make contractual agreements, commitments or modifications; 2. Grant deviations from or waive any of the terms and conditions of the contract; 3. Increase the dollar limit of the contract or authorize work beyond the dollar limit of the contract, 4. Authorize the expenditure of funds by the Contractor; 5. Change the period of performance; or 6. Authorize the use of Courts property, except as specified under the contract. G.9.4 The Contractor will be fully responsible for any changes not authorized in advance, in writing, by the CO; may be denied compensation or other relief for any additional work performed that is not so authorized; and may also be required, at no additional cost to the Courts, to take all corrective action necessitated by reason of the unauthorized changes. G.10 Questions Concerning This Solicitation Must Be Directed By Email To: Maribel Torres, CPPB Senior Contract Specialist Administrative Services Division Procurement and Contracts Branch District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 maribel.torres@dcsc.gov

END OF CLAUSE

Page 19 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACTS REQUIREMENTS H.1 Department of Labor Wage Determinations The Contractor shall be bound by the Wage Determination No. 2005-2104, Revision No. 12, dated 06/15/2010, issued by the U.S. Department of Labor in accordance with the Service Contract Act, 41 U.S.C. §351 et seq., and incorporated herein as Section J.10. The Contractor shall be bound by the wage rates for the term of the contract subject to revision as stated herein and in accordance with Section 27 of the DC Courts General Contract Provisions (J.1). If an option is exercised, the Contractor shall be bound by the applicable wage rates at the time of the option. If the option is exercised and the CO obtains a revised wage determination, the revised wage determination is applicable for the option periods and the Contractor may be entitled to an equitable adjustment. H.2 Publicity The Contractor shall at all times obtain the prior written approval from the CO before it, any of its officers, agents, employees or subcontractors, either during or after expiration or termination of the contract, make any statement, or issue any material, for publication through any medium of communication, bearing on the work performed or data collected under this contract. H.3 Disclosure of Information

H.3.1 Any information made available by the District of Columbia Courts shall be used only for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this contract, and shall not be divulged nor made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract. H.3.2 In performance of this Contract, the Contractor agrees to assume responsibility for protection of the confidentiality of Courts records and that all work shall be performed under the supervision of the Contractor or the Contractor`s responsible employees. H.3.3 Each office or employee of the Contractor to whom information may be available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the Contractor that information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such information, by any means, for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein, may subject the offender to criminal sanctions. H.3.4 No information regarding the Contractor`s performance of the contract shall be disclosed by the Contractor to anyone other than the District of Columbia Courts officials unless written approval is obtained in advance from the Contracting Officer. Page 20 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

H.4

Security Requirements

H.4.1 The requirement for Contractor personnel to obtain a security clearance as designated by the Contracting Officer may arise per District of Columbia Courts security policies and procedures. The District of Columbia Courts will notify the Contractor of all such requirements as soon as practicable. H.5 Courts' Responsibilities

H.5.1 The Courts` staff will work with the selected Contractor to address any questions and concerns. H.5.2 The Courts` staff will provide the necessary level of access to the Courts` systems. H.6 Contractor Responsibilities

H.6.1 The Contractor shall be responsible for management of the project, which, at a minimum, involves schedule management, communications management, and change management activities. H.6.1.1 The Contractor shall provide bi-weekly status reports in either face-to-face meetings or conference calls with the Courts` project manager. The status report should contain project status, tasks completed for the week, outstanding tasks, tasks scheduled for the coming weeks, issues, delays, potential risks. The Contractor shall be responsible for capturing and reviewing the minutes of all meetings with the Courts and providing a copy to the Courts` project manager. H.6.1.2 The Contractor shall be responsible for developing and updating the overall project schedule. H.6.1.3 The Contractor shall conduct a project initiation meeting with the Courts` project team. The objective of this meeting is to clearly outline the steps, deliverables, and expectations of the project. In the event of a critical issue during project execution the Contractor agrees to work with the Courts` project manager. All contract change issues as it relates to the services provided in this project must follow the Courts` change management process. END OF CLAUSE

Page 21 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART II SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 Applicability of General Provisions Applicable to the D.C. Courts Contracts The General Provisions Applicable to D.C. Courts Contracts (Attachment J. 1) shall be applicable to the contract resulting from this solicitation. I.2 Contracts that Cross Fiscal Years Continuation of this contract beyond the current fiscal year is contingent upon future fiscal appropriations. I.3 Confidentiality of Information The Contractor shall keep all information relating to any employee or customer of the Courts in absolute confidence and shall not use the information in connection with any other matters; nor shall it disclose any such information to any other person, firm or corporation, in accordance with the Courts and federal laws governing the confidentiality of records. I.4 Time Time, if stated in a number of days, will include Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, unless otherwise stated herein. I.5 I.5.1 Rights In Data Data, as used herein, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. The term Technical Data, as used herein, means recorded information, regardless of form or characteristic, of a scientific or technical nature. It may, for example, document research, experimental, developmental or engineering work, or be usable or used to define a design or process or to procure, produce, support, maintain, or operate material. The data may be graphic or pictorial delineations in media such as drawings or photographs, text in specifications or related performance or design type documents or computer printouts. Examples of technical data include research and engineering data, engineering drawings and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, catalog item identifications, and related information, and Page 22 of 50

I.5.2

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

computer software documentation. Technical data does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost and pricing, and management data or other information incidental to contract administration. I.5.3 The term Computer Software, as used herein means computer programs and computer databases. Computer Programs, as used herein means a series of instructions or statements in a form acceptable to a computer, designed to cause the computer to execute an operation or operations. "Computer Programs" include operating systems, assemblers, compilers, interpreters, data management systems, utility programs, sort merge programs, and automated data processing equipment maintenance diagnostic programs, as well as applications programs such as payroll, inventory control and engineering analysis programs. Computer programs may be either machine-dependent or machineindependent, and may be general purpose in nature or designed to satisfy the requirements of a particular user. The term "computer databases", as used herein, means a collection of data in a form capable of being processed and operated on by a computer. All data first produced in the performance of this Contract shall be the sole property of the Courts. The Contractor hereby acknowledges that all data, including, without limitation, computer program codes, produced by Contractor for the Courts under this Contract, are works made for hire and are the sole property of the Courts; but, to the extent any such data may not, by operation of law, be works made for hire, Contractor hereby transfers and assigns to the Courts the ownership of copyright in such works, whether published or unpublished. The Contractor agrees to give the Courts all assistance reasonably necessary to perfect such rights including, but not limited to, the works and supporting documentation and the execution of any instrument required to register copyrights. The Contractor agrees not to assert any rights in common law or in equity in such data. The Contractor shall not publish or reproduce such data in whole or in part or in any manner or form, or authorize others to do so, without written consent of the Courts until such time as the Courts may have released such data to the public. The Courts will have restricted rights in data, including computer software and all accompanying documentation, manuals and instructional materials, listed or described in a license or agreement made a part of this contract, which the parties have agreed will be furnished with restricted rights, provided however, notwithstanding any contrary provision in any such license or agreement, such restricted rights shall include, as a minimum the right to: Use the computer software and all accompanying documentation and manuals or instructional materials with the computer for which or with which it was acquired,

I.5.4

I.5.5

I.5.6

I.5.6.1

Page 23 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

including use at any Courts installation to which the computer may be transferred by the Courts; I.5.6.2 Use the computer software and all accompanying documentation and manuals or instructional materials with a backup computer if the computer for which or with which it was acquired is inoperative; Copy computer programs for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes; and modify the computer software and all accompanying documentation and manuals or instructional materials, or combine it with other software, subject to the provision that the modified portions shall remain subject to these restrictions. The restricted rights set forth in section I.5.6 are of no effect unless (i) the data is marked by the Contractor with the following legend: RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND Use, duplication, or disclosure is subject to restrictions stated in Contract No.______________________with ; and (Insert Contractor`s Name) If the data is computer software, the related computer software documentation includes a prominent statement of the restrictions applicable to the computer software. The Contractor may not place any legend on the computer software indicating restrictions on the Courts` rights in such software unless the restrictions are set forth in a license or agreement made a part of the contract prior to the delivery date of the software. Failure of the Contractor to apply a restricted rights legend to such computer software shall relieve the Courts of liability with respect to such unmarked software.

I.5.6.3

I.5.7

(ii)

I.5.8

In addition to the rights granted in Section I.5.6 above, the Contractor hereby grants to the Courts a nonexclusive, paid-up license throughout the world, of the same scope as restricted rights set forth in Section I.5.6 above, under any copyright owned by the Contractor, in any work of authorship prepared for or acquired by the Courts under this contract. Unless written approval of the Contracting Officer is obtained, the Contractor shall not include in technical data or computer software prepared for or acquired by the Courts under this contract any works of authorship in which copyright is not owned by the Contractor without acquiring for the Courts any rights necessary to perfect a copyright license of the scope specified in the first sentence of this paragraph. Whenever any data, including computer software, are to be obtained from a subcontractor under this contract, the Contractor shall use this clause, I.5, Rights in Data, in the Page 24 of 50

I.5.9

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

subcontract, without alteration, and no other clause shall be used to enlarge or diminish the Courts` or the Contractor`s rights in that subcontractor data or computer software which is required for the Courts. I.5.10 For all computer software furnished to the Courts with the rights specified in Section I.5.5, the Contractor shall furnish to the Courts, a copy of the source code with such rights of the scope specified in Section I.5.5. For all computer software furnished to the Courts with the restricted rights specified in Section I.5.6, the Courts, if the Contractor, either directly or through a successor or affiliate shall cease to provide the maintenance or warranty services provided the Courts under this contract or any paid-up maintenance agreement, or if Contractor should be declared bankrupt or insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall have the right to obtain, for its own and sole use only, a single copy of the then current version of the source code supplied under this contract, and a single copy of the documentation associated therewith, upon payment to the person in control of the source code the reasonable cost of making each copy. I.5.11 The Contractor shall indemnify and save and hold harmless the Courts, its officers, agents and employees acting within the scope of their official duties against any liability, including costs and expenses, (i) for violation of proprietary rights, copyrights, or rights of privacy, arising out of the publication, translation, reproduction, delivery, performance, use or disposition of any data furnished under this contract, or (ii) based upon any data furnished under this contract, or based upon libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. I.5.12 Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Courts under any patent, or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Courts under any patent. I.5.13 Paragraphs I.5.6, I.5.7, I.5.8, I.5.11 and I.5.12 above are not applicable to material furnished to the Contractor by the Courts and incorporated in the work furnished under contract, provided that such incorporated material is identified by the Contractor at the time of delivery of such work. I.6 Other Contractors The Contractor shall not commit or permit any act that will interfere with the performance of work by another Courts contractor or by any Courts employee. I.7 Subcontracts None of the Contractor`s work or services hereunder may be subcontracted by the Contractor to any subcontractor without the prior, written consent of the Contracting Page 25 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

Officer. Any work or service so subcontracted shall be performed pursuant to a subcontract agreement which the Courts shall have the rights to review and approve prior to its execution. Notwithstanding any such subcontractor approved by the Court, the Contractor shall remain liable to the Courts for all contractors` work and services required hereunder. I.8 Ethics in Public Contracting The Offeror shall familiarize itself with the Court's policy entitled "Ethics In Public Contracting". The Offeror shall abide by such provisions in submission of its proposal and performance of any contract awarded. See Attachment J.3. I.9 Disputes Any dispute arising under or out of this contract is subject to the provisions of Chapter 8 of the Procurement Guidelines of the District of Columbia Courts. I.10 Laws and Regulations All applicable laws, Courts rules, procurement guidelines and regulations shall apply to the contract throughout, and they will be considered to be included in the contract the same as though herein written out in full. I.11 Non-Discrimination The Contractor agrees that it will comply with the nondiscrimination requirements set forth in D.C. Code, Section 2-1402.11( Supp. 2006) which will be incorporated into any contract awarded. The Contractor agrees to comply with requests from the Courts to support the Contractor's adherence to this section. I.12 Examination of Books and Records The Contracting Officer or any of the Contracting Officer`s duly authorized representatives shall, until three years after final payment, have the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and record of the Contractor involving transactions related to the contract. I.13 Record Keeping The Contractor shall be expected to maintain complete and accurate records justifying all actual and accrued expenditures. The Contractor`s records shall be subject to periodic audit by the Court. Page 26 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

I.14

Insurance

I.14.1 General Requirements: Prior to execution of the contract, the Contractor shall obtain at its own cost and expense and keep in force and effect during the term of this contract, including all extensions, the insurance specified below with an insurance company licensed or qualified to do business with the District of Columbia Courts. All insurance shall set forth the District of Columbia Courts as an additional insured. The Contractor shall ensure that all policies provide that the CO shall be given thirty (30) days prior written notice in the event the stated limit in the declarations page of the policy is reduced via endorsement or the policy is canceled prior to the expiration date shown on the certificate. The Contractor shall provide the CO with Ten (10) days prior written notice in the event of non-payment of premium. The Contractor must submit to the Contracting Officer a certificate of insurance as evidence of compliance within ten (10) calendar days after request. 1. Commercial General Liability Insurance. The Contractor shall provide evidence satisfactory to the CO with respect to the services performed that it carries $1,000,000 per occurrence limits; $2,000,000 aggregate; Bodily Injury and Property Damage including, but not limited to: premises-operations; broad form property damage; Products and Completed Operations; Personal and Advertising Injury; contractual liability and independent contractors. The policy coverage shall include the District of Columbia Courts as an additional insured, shall be primary and non-contributory with any other insurance maintained by the District of Columbia Courts, and shall contain a waiver of subrogation. The Contractor shall maintain Completed Operations coverage for five (5) years following final acceptance of the work performed under this contract. 2. Automobile Liability Insurance. The Contractor shall provide automobile liability insurance to cover all owned, hired or non-owned motor vehicles used in conjunction with the performance of this contract. The policy shall provide a $1,000,000 per occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage. 3. Workers` Compensation Insurance. The Contractor shall provide Workers` Compensation insurance in accordance with the statutory mandates of the Courts of Columbia or the jurisdiction in which the contract is performed. 4. Employer`s Liability Insurance. The Contractor shall provide employer`s liability insurance as follows: $500,000 per accident for injury; $500,000 per employee for disease; and $500,000 for policy disease limit.

Page 27 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

I.14.2 Duration: The Contractor shall carry all required insurance until all contract work is accepted by the Courts, and shall carry the required General Liability; any required Professional Liability; and any required Employment Practices Liability insurance for five (5) years following final acceptance of the work performed under this contract. I.14.3 Liability: These are the required minimum insurance requirements established by the Courts. HOWEVER, THE REQUIRED MINIMUM INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS PROVIDED ABOVE WILL NOT IN ANY WAY LIMIT THE CONTRACTOR'S LIABILITY UNDER THIS CONTRACT. I.14.4 Contractor's Property: Contractor and subcontractors are solely responsible for any loss or damage to their personal property, including but not limited to tools and equipment, scaffolding and temporary structures, rented machinery, or owned and leased equipment. A waiver of subrogation shall apply in favor of the District of Columbia Courts. I.14.5 Measure of Payment: The Courts shall not make any separate measure or payment for the cost of insurance and bonds. The Contractor shall include all of the costs of insurance and bonds in the contract price. I.14.6 Notification: The Contractor shall immediately provide the CO with written notice in the event that its insurance coverage has or will be substantially changed, canceled or not renewed, and provide an updated certificate of insurance to the CO. I.14.7 Certificates of Insurance. The Contractor shall submit certificates of insurance giving evidence of the required coverage as specified in this section prior to commencing work. Evidence of insurance shall be submitted to: Louis W. Parker Contracting Officer Administrative Services Division District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 Louis.Parker@dcsc.gov I.14.8 Disclosure of Information. The Contractor agrees that the Courts may disclose the name and contact information of its insurers to any third party which presents a claim against the Courts for any damages or claims resulting from or arising out of work performed by the Contractor, its agents, employees, servants or subcontractors in the performance of this contract.

Page 28 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

I.15

Cancellation Ceiling

I.15.1 In the event of cancellation of the contract because of non-appropriation for any fiscal year after fiscal year __2011______, there shall be a cancellation ceiling of zero dollars representing reasonable preproduction and nonrecurring costs, which would be applicable to the items or services being furnished and normally amortized over the life of the contract. I.16 Order of Precedence

I.16.1 The contract awarded as a result of this RFP will contain the following clause: I.16.1.1 Order of Precedence A conflict in language shall be resolved by giving precedence to the document in the highest order of priority that contains language addressing the issue in question. The following documents are incorporated into the contract by reference and made a part of the contract in the following order of precedence: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) I.17 An applicable Court Order, if any Contract document DC Courts General Contract Provisions Contract attachments other than the General Contract Provisions RFP, as amended BAFOs (in order of most recent to earliest) Proposal

Governing Law This contract, and any disputes arising out of or related to this contract, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the District of Columbia.

END OF CLAUSE

Page 29 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART III LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

J.1 J.2 J.3 J.4 J.5 J.6 J.7 J.8 J.9 J.10

General Provisions Applicable to D.C. Courts Contracts Anti-Collusion Statement Ethics in Public Contracting Non-Discrimination Certification of Eligibility Tax Certification Affidavit Certification Regarding a Drug-Free Workplace District of Columbia Courts Release of Claims Past Performance Evaluation Form Wage Determination No. 2005-2104, Revision No. 12, dated 06/15/2010

Exhibit: Supplement C.2.3 ­ Auto Support Logs (Zip Document)

Page 30 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART IV REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

K.1

Certification Regarding a Drug-Free Workplace

K.1.1 Definitions: As used in this provision: K.1.1.1 "Controlled substance" means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.) and as further defined in regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 - 1308.15. K.1.1.2 "Conviction" means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes. K.1.1.3 "Criminal drug statute" means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of any controlled substance. K.1.1.4 "Drug-free workplace" means the site (s) for the performance of work done by the Contractor in connection with a specific contract at which employees of the Contractor are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance. K.1.1.5 "Employee" means an employee of a Contractor directly engaged in the performance of work under a Government contract. "Directly engaged" is defined to include all direct costs employees and any other Contractor employee who has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance. K.1.1.6 "Individual" means an Offeror/contractor that has no more than one employee including the Offeror/contractor. K.1.2 By submission of its offer, the Offeror, if other than an individual who is making an offer that equals or exceeds $25,000.00, certifies and agrees, that with respect to all employees of the Offeror to be employed under a contract resulting from this solicitation, it will - no later than 30 calendar days after contract award (unless a longer period is agreed to in writing), for contracts of 30 calendar days or more performance duration, or as soon as possible for contract of less than 30 calendar days performance duration, but in any case, Page 31 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

by a date prior to when performance is expected to be completed. K.1.2.1 Publish a statement notifying such employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the Contractor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violations of such prohibition; K.1.2.2 Establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform such employees about (i) (ii) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; The Contractor's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;

(iii) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance program; and (iv) The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace. K.1.2.3 Provide all employees engaged in performance of the contract with a copy of the statement required by subparagraph K.1.2.1 of this provision; K.1.2.4 Notify such employees in writing in the statement required by subparagraph K.1.2.1 of this provision that, as a condition of continued employment on the contract resulting from this solicitation, the employee will (i) (ii) Abide by the terms of the statement; and Notify the employer in writing of the employee's conviction under a criminal drug statute for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than 5 calendar days after such conviction;

K.1.2.5 Notify the Contracting Officer in writing within 10 calendar days after receiving notice under subdivision K.1.2.4 (ii) of this clause, from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction; K.1.2.6 The notice shall include the position title of the employee; and

Page 32 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

K.1.2.7 Within 30 calendar days after receiving notice under subdivision K.1.2.4 (ii) of this provision of a conviction, take one of the following actions with respect to any employee who is convicted of a drug abuse violation occurring in the workplace: (i) Take appropriate personnel action against such employee, up to and including termination; or Require such employee to satisfactorily participate in drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.

(ii)

K.1.2.8 Make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace though implementation of subparagraphs K.1.2.1 through K.1.2.6 of this provision. K.1.3 By submission of its offer, the Offeror, if an individual who is making an offer of any dollar value, certifies and agrees that the Offeror will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in the performance of the contract resulting from this solicitation. K.1.4 Failure of the Offeror to provide the certification required by paragraphs K.1.2 or K.1.3 of this provision, renders the Offeror unqualified and ineligible for award. (See FAR 9.104-1(g) and 19-602-1(a)(2) (i) and (ii). K.1.5 In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the certification in paragraphs K.1.2 or K.1.3 of this provision concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001.

K.1.6

CERTIFICATION REGARDING A DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE _________________________________ Print Name of Authorized Representative ________________ Title

_________________________________ Signature of Authorized Representative

Page 33 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

K.2

Tax Certification Each Offeror must submit with its offer, a sworn Tax Certification Affidavit, incorporated herein as Attachment J.6.

END OF CLAUSE

Page 34 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART IV REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS L.1 CONTRACT AWARD

L.1.1 Most Advantageous to the Courts The Courts intends to award a single contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Courts, cost or price, technical and other factors, specified elsewhere in this solicitation considered. L.1.2 Initial Offers The Courts may award a contract on the basis of initial offers received, without discussion. Therefore, each initial offer should contain the Offeror`s best terms from a standpoint of cost or price, technical and other factors. L.2 PROPOSAL FORM, ORGANIZATION AND CONTENT One original and five (5) copies of the written proposals shall be submitted in two parts, titled "Technical Proposal" and "Price Proposal". Proposals shall be typewritten in 12 point font size on 8.5 by 11 bond paper. Telephonic, telegraphic, and facsimile proposals will not be accepted. The Offeror shall conspicuously mark on the outside of the proposal package the name and address of the Offeror and the following: Solicitation Number: CSP-11-029 Caption: "_Tape Backup Solution " Proposal Due Date & Time: Monday, May 2, 2011, 1:00 p.m., EST Offerors are directed to the specific proposal evaluation criteria found in Section M of this solicitation, Evaluation Factors. The Offeror shall respond to each factor in a way that will allow the Courts to evaluate the Offeror`s response. The Offeror shall submit information in a clear, concise, factual and logical manner providing a comprehensive description of program supplies and services and delivery thereof. The information requested below for the technical proposal shall facilitate evaluation for all proposals. The technical proposal must contain sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise response fully reflecting the manner in which the Offeror proposes to fully meet the Page 35 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

requirements in Section C. L.3 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DATE AND TIME, AND LATE SUBMISSIONS, LATE MODIFICATIONS, WITHDRAWAL OR MODIFICATION OF PROPOSALS AND LATE PROPOSALS

L.3.1 Proposal Submission Proposals must be submitted no later than 1:00 PM, Monday, May 2, 2011. Proposals, modifications to proposals, or requests for withdrawals that are received in the designated Courts office after the exact local time specified above, are "late" and shall be considered only if they are received before the award is made and one (1) or more of the following circumstances apply: (a) The proposal or modification was sent by registered or certified mail not later than the fifth (5th) day before the date specified for receipt of offers; (b) The proposal or modification was sent by mail and it is determined by the CO that the late receipt at the location specified in the solicitation was caused by mishandling by the Courts, or (c) The proposal is the only proposal received. L.3.2 Withdrawal or Modification of Proposals An Offeror may modify or withdraw its proposal upon written, telegraphic notice, or facsimile transmission if received at the location designated in the solicitation for submission of proposals, but not later than the closing date and time for receipt of proposals. L.3.3 Postmarks The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of a late proposal, late modification or late withdrawal sent either by registered or certified mail shall be a U.S. or Canadian Postal Service postmark on the wrapper or on the original receipt from the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service. If neither postmark shows a legible date, the proposal, modification or request for withdrawal shall be deemed to have been mailed late. When the postmark shows the date but not the hour, the time is presumed to be the last minute of the date shown. If no date is shown on the postmark, the proposal shall be considered late unless the Offeror can furnish evidence from the postal authorities of timely mailing.

Page 36 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

L.3.4 Late Modifications A late modification of a successful proposal, which makes its terms more favorable to the Courts, shall be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. L.3.5 Late Proposals A late proposal, late modification or late request for withdrawal of a proposal that is not considered shall be held unopened, unless opened for identification, until after award and then retained with unsuccessful proposals resulting from this solicitation. L.4 Explanation to Prospective Offerors If a prospective Offeror has any questions relating to this solicitation, the prospective Offeror shall submit the question in writing to Maribel Torres, Senior Contract Specialist at maribel.torres@dcsc.gov. The prospective Offeror shall submit questions no later than seven (7) days prior to the closing date and time indicated for this solicitation. The Courts will not consider any questions received less than seven (7) days before the date set for submission of proposals. The Courts will furnish responses promptly to all prospective Offerors. An amendment to the solicitation will be issued if the CO decides that information is necessary in submitting offers, or if the lack of it would be prejudicial to any prospective Offeror. Oral explanations or instructions given by Courts officials before the award of the contract will not be binding. L.5 Failure to Submit Offers Recipients of this solicitation not responding with an offer should not return this solicitation. Instead, they should advise the CO, identified on section G.7, by letter or postcard whether they want to receive future solicitations for similar requirements. It is also requested that such recipients advise the CO of the reason for not submitting a proposal in response to this solicitation. If a recipient does not submit an offer and does not notify the CO that future solicitations are desired, the recipient's name may be removed from the applicable mailing list. L.6 Restriction on Disclosure and Use of Data

L.6.1 Offerors who include in their proposal data that they do not want disclosed to the public or used by the Courts except for use in the procurement process shall mark the title page with the following legend:
"This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Courts and shall not be duplicated, used or disclosed in whole or in part for any purpose except for use in the procurement process.

Page 37 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

If, however, a contract is awarded to this Offeror as a result of or in connection with the submission of this data, the Courts will have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent consistent with the Courts's needs in the procurement process. This restriction does not limit the Courts's rights to use, without restriction, information contained in this proposal if it is obtained from another source. The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets (insert page numbers or other identification of sheets)."

L.6.2 Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend:
"Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal."

L.7

Proposals with Option Years N/A

L.8

Proposal Protests

L.8.1 Any aggrieved person may protest this solicitation, award or proposed contract award in accordance with Chapter 8 of the Procurement Guidelines of the District of Columbia Courts. Protest shall be filed in writing, within ten (10) working days after the basis of the protest is known (or should have been known), whichever is earlier with the Contracting Officer at: Administrative Services Division District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 L.8.2 A protest shall include the following: L.8.2.1 Name, address and telephone number of the protester; L.8.2.2 Solicitation or contract number; L.8.2.3 Detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds for the protest, including copies of relevant documents; L.8.2.4 Request for a ruling by the Contracting Officer; and L.8.2.5 Statement as to the form of relief requested. L.9 Signing of Offers Page 38 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

The Offeror shall sign the offer and print or type its name on the Solicitation, Offer and Award form of this solicitation. Offers signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent's authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the Contracting Officer. L.10 Unnecessarily Elaborate Proposals Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete and effective response to this solicitation are not desired and may be construed as an indication of the Offeror's lack of cost consciousness. Elaborate artwork, expensive paper and bindings, and expensive visual and other presentation aids are neither necessary nor desired. L.11 Retention of Proposals All proposal documents will be the property of the Courts and retained by the Courts, and therefore will not be returned to the Offerors. L.12 Proposal Costs The Courts is not liable for any costs incurred by the Offerors in submitting proposals in response to this solicitation. L.14 Certificates of Insurance Prior to commencing work, the Contractor shall have its insurance broker or insurance company submit certificates of insurance giving evidence of the required coverages as specified in Section I.14 to: Louis W. Parker Contracting Officer Administrative Services Division District of Columbia Courts 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 Louis.Parker@dcsc.gov

Page 39 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

L.15

Acknowledgment of Amendments The Offeror shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation (a) by signing and returning the amendment; (b) by identifying the amendment number and date in the space provided for this purpose in Section A, Solicitation, Offer and Award form; or (c) by letter, telegram or e-mail from an authorized negotiator. The Courts must receive the acknowledgment by the date and time specified for receipt of proposals. An Offeror`s failure to acknowledge an amendment may result in rejection of its offer.

L.16

Best and Final Offers If, subsequent to receiving original proposals, negotiations are conducted, all Offerors within the competitive range will be so notified and will be provided an opportunity to submit written best and final offers at the designated date and time. Best and final offers will be subject to the Late Submissions, Late Modifications and Late Withdrawals of Proposals provisions of the solicitation. After receipt of best and final offers, no discussions will be reopened unless the CO determines that it is clearly in the Courts`s best interest to do so, e.g., it is clear that information available at that time is inadequate to reasonably justify contractor selection and award based on the best and final offers received. If discussions are reopened, the CO shall issue an additional request for best and final offers to all Offerors still within the competitive range.

L.17

Familiarization with Conditions Offerors shall thoroughly familiarize themselves with the terms and conditions of this solicitation, acquainting themselves with all available information regarding difficulties which may be encountered, and the conditions under which the work is to be accomplished. Contractors will not be relieved from assuming all responsibility for properly estimating the difficulties and the cost of performing the services required herein due to their failure to investigate the conditions or to become acquainted with all information, schedules and liability concerning the services to be performed.

L.18

Optional Services

L.18.1 Offerors are encouraged to submit as optional services any additional enhancements and capabilities and the price for those enhancements or upgrades. (See Section L.21.1.2.2)

Page 40 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

L.19

Offerors may submit Proposals either by mail or by hand delivery/courier services.

L.19.1 Offerors submitting their proposals by Mail must mail their proposals to the following address: District of Columbia Courts Administrative Services Division Procurement and Contracts Branch Attn: Maribel Torres, Senior Contract Specialist 616 H Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 maribel.torres@dcsc.gov

L.19.2 Offerors submitting their proposals by Hand Delivery/Courier services must hand deliver their proposals to the following address: District of Columbia Courts Administrative Services Division Procurement and Contracts Branch Attn: Maribel Torres, Senior Contract Specialist 701 7th Street, N.W., Suite 622 Washington, D.C. 20001 L.20 Technical and Price Proposals Format and Content

L.20.1 Volume I - Technical Proposal shall be comprised of the following tabs: Tab A B C E Section General Information Technical Approach Qualifications of Offeror Past Performance

L. 20.1.1 Volume 1 - Tab A ­ General Information In this section (Tab A) of the proposal, the Offeror shall provide a brief description of its organization to include:

Page 41 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

1. Brief history of the Company; 2. Name, Address, Telephone Number and DUNS and Federal ID Numbers of the Offeror; 3. If the Offeror is a partnership or joint venture, the names and addresses of the general partners or individual members of the joint venture, and copies of any joint venture or teaming agreements; and 4. Name, Address, email and current phone number of Offeror`s contact person. 5. A copy of each District of Columbia license, registration or certification that the Offeror is required by law to obtain. If the Offeror is a corporation or partnership and does not provide a copy of its license, registration or certification to transact business in the District of Columbia, the offer shall certify its intent to obtain the necessary license, registration or certification prior to contract award or its exemption from such requirements. L.20.1.2 Volume I - Tab B - Technical Approach (See Section M.2.1) Six (6) pages limit has been established for the Technical Approach to encourage concise presentation, while responding to and explaining how all technical requirements shall be fulfilled. Any material beyond the six (6) pages limit will not be considered. The Offeror shall provide a comprehensive plan to accomplish the work described in Section "C" - Description/Specifications/Statement of Work. This shall include: 1. Overall understanding of the RFP requirements. 2. The Feasibility of the proposed approach and the method of which implementation, including tasks, timeline, and management, accountability and expected deliverables. 3. A comprehensive list of project tasks and deliverables. 4. Clearly defined project responsibilities and accountability. Volume I - Tab C ­ Qualifications of Offeror (See Section M.2.2) The Offeror must demonstrate relevant experience with recent projects of similar nature.

L.20.1.3

Page 42 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

Describe the Corporate Team experience, staff, resources, and organizational stability to support the project. Any additional relevant information. L.20.1.4 Volume I - Tab D ­ Past Performance (See Section M.2.3) The information requested in this section shall facilitate the evaluation of the Offeror`s past performance in delivering the Court`s requirements as described herein. The Offeror shall provide any information to substantiate the Offeror`s past performance in completing the requirements of Section C. The Offeror shall provide the following information: Provide a brief description of past performance for furnishing tape backup solutions in a NetApp (Snap*) environment for a Court, federal or private contracts inclusive of dates, contract amount, address and telephone number of the contract administrator. Three (3) references to include information about previously performed Courts or federal or private contracts providing similar and/or like services, inclusive of dates, contract amount, address and telephone number of the contract administrator. Each reference shall be submitted on the Past Performance Evaluation Form (Attachment J.9) and shall address client's satisfaction with Offeror's performance and deliverables on similar services. Past Performance Evaluation Form (Attachment J.9) will be used to query previous customers regarding Offerors past performance on contracts. Offerors shall assure that customers listed in the proposal complete and sign the Performance Evaluation Form and return them with the technical proposal submission. For each reference contacted, the contact person will be requested to confirm the period of performance, dollar amount, timeliness of performance, cost control business relations and customer satisfaction. Past performance information will be used for responsibility determination. The Courts will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the similarity of scope, magnitude and complexity to that detailed in the RFP. The Courts reserves the right to contact the owners of projects known to have been completed within the last three (3) years but not supplied as references, and the information received may be used in the evaluation of past performance.

Page 43 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

L.21

Volume II ­ Price Proposal shall be comprised of the following tabs: Tab A B C Section Price Information Certification Forms Other Considerations

L.21.1 Volume II ­Tab A - Price Proposal L.21.1.1 A separately bound price proposal must be submitted using the format provided in Section B.5 of this RFP. The Price Proposal shall be comprised of the following Section(s): Price/Cost Schedule (Section B.5). Optional Services ­ Offerors are encouraged to submit additional enhancements and capabilities and the price for those enhancements or upgrades (See Section L.18).

L.21.1.2 L.21.1.2.1 L.21.1.2.2

L.21.2 L.21.2.1

Volume II - Tab B ­ Certification Information Offerors shall complete and return with their proposal the Representations, Certifications and Acknowledgments (Page 2-5) and Anti-Collusion Statement (Attachment J.2), Ethics in Public Contracting (Attachment J.3), Non-Discrimination (Attachment J.4), Certification of Eligibility (Attachment J.5), Tax Certification Affidavit (Attachment J.6), Certification Regarding A Drug-Free Workplace (Attachment J.7) and Past Performance Evaluation Forms (Attachment J.9) Volume II - Tab C - Disclosure Other Considerations shall contain any assumptions, conditions, or exceptions (technical, price, or otherwise) by the Offeror upon which the proposal is based to include the rationale for the assumption, condition, or exception and other general information. If the Offeror has no assumptions, conditions, or exceptions, state so. Disclosure details of any legal action or litigation past or pending against the Offeror. A statement that the Offeror knows of no conflict between its interests and those of the District of Columbia Courts; and further that the Offeror knows of no facts or circumstances that might create the appearance of a conflict between its interests and Page 44 of 50

L.21.3 L.21.3.1

L.21.3.2 L.21.3.3

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

those of the District of Columbia Courts. L.22 L.22.1 Acceptance Period The Offeror agrees, if its offer is accepted within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date specified in this solicitation for the submission of proposals, or if it`s a Final Proposal Revision (FPR) is accepted within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date specified for submission thereof to furnish services at the price stated in the Price proposal, delivered or performed at the designated place within the time specified in this solicitation.

END OF CLAUSE

Page 45 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

PART V SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS M.1 Evaluation for Award The Courts intend to make an award to the responsible firm whose proposal represents the best value to the Courts. The evaluations factors are listed below in descending order of importance. The Courts may award a contract upon the basis of initial offers received, without discussions. Therefore, each initial offer shall contain the Offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. M.2 Evaluation Criteria The evaluation factors set forth below shall be used to evaluate each proposal. The maximum points for technical are 100 total points. The criteria for evaluating the proposals and their respective points are as follows: M.2.1 M.2.1.1 Technical Approach (Refer to Section L.20.1.2) 0-30 points

The technical approach will be evaluated on the extent to which the proposed technical solutions will result in high quality services and deliverables that will meet the Courts goals set forth in this solicitation to include: a. The Offeror`s approach to managing risk and minimizing/avoiding disruption to the Production environment and existing backup system when implementing the Courts` tape backup solution; b. The Offeror`s approach to integrating the Courts` tape backup solution (hardware and software) to allow full utilization of NetApp`s Snap* features for both CIFS as well as SAN-attached LUN data without custom scripting; c. The Offeror`s approach to thoroughly testing the integration the Courts` tape backup solution to ensure proper functionality with NetApp`s Snap* features; d. The sequence and timing proposed to perform the work and ensure product/service reliability and handover to the Courts; e. A detailed schedule plan showing the estimated start and finish dates of all major activities.

Page 46 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

M.2.2 M.2.2.1

Qualification of Offeror

0-25 points

The Offeror must demonstrate relevant experience with recent projects of similar nature, to include, at a minimum: a. Implementing tape backup solutions that allow full utilization of NetApp`s Snap* features for both CIFS as well as SAN-attached LUN data without custom scripting; Implementing tape backup solutions with customer-specified retention periods; Providing customized training for tape backup solutions. 0-30 points

b. c. M.2.3

Experience of Key Personnel

M.2.3.1 The offeror shall include resumes outlining credentials potential candidates with the required knowledge and experience in the Statement of Work. M.2.4 Past Performance 0-15 points

M.2.4.1 The Courts will evaluate the Offerors past performance on the basis of its reputation for the following: The product & services have been provided in contracts of equal or larger size providing similar and or like services, with successful problem resolution and delivery of each phase of the implementation and integration on time and within budget. Using Attachment J.9, three (3) letters of reference to the Courts to include information about previously performed District or Federal or private entity contracts of equal or larger size providing similar and/or like services, inclusive of dates of contract. Each reference shall address: a) adhering to standards of good workmanship, including the technical, business, and administrative aspects of performance; b) timely and reliable service delivery, adhering to work schedules, response times, and deadlines; c) demonstrating a commitment to customer satisfaction; and d) positive working attitude. M.2.5 Total Points (100 Points Maximum)

Page 47 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

M.3 M.3.1 M.4 M.4.1

Evaluation of Option Years N/A Price Proposal Evaluation The Courts will not rate or score price, but will evaluate each Offeror`s price proposal for realism, reasonableness, and completeness. This evaluation will reflect the Offerors understanding of the solicitation requirements and the validity of the Offeror`s approach to performing the work. Alternative price proposals, if considered by the Courts will be evaluated on contract type risk, potential savings, other advantages or disadvantages to the Courts, and the discretion of the government. Realism: The Courts will evaluate the realism of the proposed price by assessing the compatibility of proposed price with proposal scope and effect. In the evaluation the Courts will consider the following: a. b. Do the proposed prices reflect a clear understanding of the requirements? Do the proposed prices for performing various functional service requirements reflect the likely costs to the Offeror in performing the effort with reasonable economy and efficiency? Are proposed prices unrealistically high or low? Are the proposed prices consistent with the technical and Management/staffing approach (e.g., if the Offeror proposes a staff of x people, the price proposal must account for x people)?

M.4.2

c. d.

M.4.3

Reasonableness: In evaluating reasonableness, the Courts will determine if the Offeror`s proposed prices, in nature and amount, do not exceed those which would be incurred by a prudent contractor in the conduct of competitive business. The assessment of reasonableness will take into account the context of the source selection, including current market conditions and other factors that may impact price. In the evaluation the Courts will consider the following: a. Is the proposed price(s) (for Section B ­ Supplies or Services and Price/Cost) comparable to the independent Courts cost estimate? b. Is the proposed labor/skill mix comparable to the projected Courts skill mix and/or sufficient to meet the Section C requirements based upon the Offeror`s technical and management approach? Page 48 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

c. Are the proposed price(s) for hardware and software comparable to competitor`s prices under this solicitation? d. Are the proposed price(s) for installing hardware and software comparable to Competitor`s prices under this solicitation? e. Are the proposed price(s) for warranty and customer support comparable to Competitor`s prices under this solicitation? M.4.4 Completeness: In evaluating completeness, the Courts will determine if the Offeror`s provides pricing data of sufficient detail to fully support the offer and permit the Courts to evaluate the proposal thoroughly. In the evaluation the Courts will consider the following: a. Do the proposed prices include all price elements the Offeror is likely to incur in performing the effort? b. Are proposed prices traceable to requirements? c. Do proposed prices account for all requirements? d. Are all proposed prices supported with adequate data to permit a thorough evaluation? M.5 Evaluation of Prompt Payment Discount

M.5.1 Prompt payment discounts shall not be considered in the evaluation of offers. However, any discount offered will form a part of the award and will be taken by the Courts if payment is made within the discount period specified by the Offeror. M.5.2 In connection with any discount offered, time will be computed from the date of delivery of the supplies to carrier when delivery and acceptance are at point of origin, or from date of delivery at destination when delivery, installation and acceptance are at that, or from the date correct invoice or voucher is received in the office specified by the Courts, if the latter date is later than date of delivery. Payment is deemed to be made for the purpose of earning the discount on the date of mailing of the Courts check. M.4 Prospective Contractor's Responsibility

M.4.1 In order to receive an award under this RFP, the Court`s Contracting Officer must determine that the prospective contractor has the capability in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements. To be deemed responsible, a prospective contractor must Page 49 of 50

Solicitation No.: CSP-11-029 Tape Backup Solution

establish that it has: M.4.1.1 M.4.1.2 Financial resources adequate to perform the contract, or the ability to obtain them; Ability to comply with the required or proposed delivery or performance schedule, taking into consideration all existing commercial and governmental business commitments; A satisfactory record of performance; The necessary organization, experience, accounting and operational control, and technical skills, or the ability to obtain them; Compliance with the applicable Courts licensing, tax laws, and regulations; The necessary production, construction, and technical equipment and facilities, or the ability to obtain them; and Other qualifications and eligibility criteria necessary to receive an award under applicable laws and regulations. The Courts reserves the right to request from a prospective contractor information necessary to determine the prospective contractor's responsibility. Information is to be submitted upon the request of the Courts within the time specified in the request. Failure of an Offeror to comply with a request for information may subject the Offeror's proposal to rejection on responsibility grounds. If a prospective contractor fails to supply the requested information, the Court`s Contracting Officer shall make the determination of responsibility or non-responsibility based on available information. If the available information is insufficient to make a determination of non-responsibility, the Court`s Contracting Officer shall determine the Offeror to be non-responsible.

M.4.1.3 M.4.1.4

M.4.1.5 M.3.1.6

M.4.1.7

M.4.2

END OF CLAUSE

Page 50 of 50

