<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FW912ES-14-T-0029.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FW912ES-14-T-0029.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, AND 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER W81G6740175999 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF

115

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

W912ES-14-T-0029
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL: a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect Calls)

19-Feb-2014
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

DAWN M LINDER
CODE

651-290-5407
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS 100 % FOR BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE

02:00 PM 28 Feb 2014
12. DISCOUNT TERMS

9. ISSUED BY CONTRACTING DIVISION USACE - ST. PAUL 180 5TH STREET E SUITE 700 ST. PAUL MN 55101-1678

W912ES

X SET ASIDE: X SB

HUBZONE SB 8(A) SVC-DISABLED VET-OWNED SB

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION NAICS:

TEL: FAX: 651-290-5706
15. DELIVER TO
ENVIRONMTL & ECON ANALYSIS BRA KEVIN BLUHM USACE - ST PAUL 180 5TH STREET E, SUITE 700 ST PAUL MN 55101-1638 TEL: 651-290-5247 FAX:

EMERGING SB SIZE STD: CODE
B6H4300

500

511199

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

16. ADMINISTERED BY

17a.CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

18a. PAY MENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TEL.

FACILITY CODE

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO.

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES

SEE SCHEDULE
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Gov t. Use Only )

0

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1. 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3. 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.

ADDENDA ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN

0

COPIES

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE OFFER DATED . Y OUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a.UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER) 31c. DATE SIGNED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER
(TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

(TYPE OR PRINT)

TEL:

EMAIL:

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (CONTINUED)
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

PAGE 2 OF 115 24. AMOUNT

SEE SCHEDULE

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: ______________________________________________________ 32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f . TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAY MENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAY MENT 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 41c. DATE 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFY ING OFFICER 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) BACK Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 3 of 115 Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET

ITEM NO 0001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Our Mississippi Newsletter-3 Editions FFP Design and write the Spring, Summer, and Fall editions of the Our Mississippi Newsletter to include printing and distribution. The work is more specifically defined in the scope of work attached hereto and made a part hereof. FOB: Destination MILSTRIP: W81G6740175999 PURCHASE REQUEST NUMBER: W81G6740175999

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0001AA

SUPPLIES/SERVICES SPRING 2014 EDITION FFP FOB: Destination

QUANTITY 1

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

NET AMT

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 4 of 115 ITEM NO 0001AB SUPPLIES/SERVICES SUMMER 2014 EDITION FFP FOB: Destination QUANTITY 1 UNIT Each UNIT PRICE AMOUNT

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0001AC

SUPPLIES/SERVICES FALL 2014 EDITION FFP FOB: Destination

QUANTITY 1

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

NET AMT

SCOPE OF WORK

SCOPE OF WORK "OUR MISSISSIPPI"- MISSISSIPPI RIVER BASIN PUBLIC OUTREACH/CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS CONTRACT 1. General Scope A. General Information: Under this Scope of Work (SOW), the contractor will provide writing and editorial services for production of printed newsletter on the entire Mississippi River system, including the programs on the Upper and Lower River portions. This contract shall consist of all aspects in production (writing, editing, designing and artwork) and mailing 3 editions of the Corps of Engineers "OUR MISSISSIPPI" newsletter, inclusive of printing and distribution

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 5 of 115

B. Location of Work: The primary work is located within the entire Mississippi River system. Initial focus areas are in the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri. Work will also come from the lower Mississippi River region to the Gulf of Mexico. The primary work will be design work from remote areas and daily travel will not be needed to attend work group stakeholder meetings. All work group stakeholder meetings are to be phone in teleconference. Quarterly newsletter initiation and brainstorming meetings will require travel to participate in, and facilitate discussions. C. Study Description: Over the past 20 years, efforts of the Upper Mississippi River District offices have resulted in the generation of enhanced public and stakeholder interest and participation in Corps initiatives. In 1991 quarterly mailings were to roughly 1,000 persons and has grown to over 20,000 persons with bulk distribution to 30,000 additional persons. The publications started as basic informational newsletters and have evolved into a very interesting, tabloid style, full color publication with information and facts from various angles from all around the Mississippi Valley region. Annual growth rate has been over 5% in the past few years and is expected to continue for the period of this contract. 2. Services Required All work shall be in accordance with requirements as specified in this Scope of Work. A. The required work in this contract is to produce a professional newsletter that is consistent with the current "Our Mississippi" brand and promote/enhance that program. The contractor will initiate, create, coordinate, conduct field investigations, write, design, layout, proof, arrange for comments, incorporate changes, finalize and print/distribute the OUR MISSISSIPPI newsletter to 20,000 addresses in the Mississippi Valley Division (MVD) mailing list and 30,000 pieces to another 350 locations in the Mississippi Valley region. There are an additional 10 distribution locations outside the region and 4 international shipments. The newsletter is to be produced and distributed quarterly (Spring, Summer and Fall 2014 only) starting with the first quarter after award of this contract. The distribution dates will be 30 March 15 June and 15 September 2014 to ensure time for shipping and mailing of the newsletter to their final locations. The Our Mississippi newsletter is a 12 page document (approximate word count is 11,000) to be created using environmentally friendly inks and paper. The artwork and photos (all created/taken/paid for by the contractor) are to be high resolution, color items, and inserted electronically into the publication and follow the industry standards for printing and on-line publications. B. During the execution of the work, the Contractor will consult with the Public Outreach Team (PORT) team members to ensure the newsletter is consistent with the current message and theme (explained in paragraph C below) and to obtain required information pertinent to writing stories and articles for the newsletters. This may include travel to other Corps District offices within the location of work. The Rock Island District in Rock Island, IL is the most likely travel location but may include travel to a number of

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 6 of 115

other Corps Districts. The newsletter will be comprised of several stories and articles, with creative and high quality graphics/photos, to be written and developed by the contractor based on the current message and theme of the OUR MISSISSIPPI newsletter, as described in paragraph C below. The template for the newsletter is to follow the past editions of OUR MISSISSIPPI newsletter and include similar design elements and cues to keep continuity for the reader. The consistent message, look, and feel are extremely important in the branding work that has been in place since 2008. The articles of the newsletter should be reflective of the Corps and Stakeholder needs and encompass a wide variety of activities relevant to the entire Mississippi River, including the Navigation and Ecosystem Sustainability Program (NESP), the Environment Management Plan (EMP), Mississippi River and Tributaries (MR&T) Regulatory, Operations and Emergency actions of the Corps of Engineers, plus activities of partner and stakeholder organizations along the River from Minnesota thru Louisiana. C. Contractor is responsible for the initial development of an idea list and the research and writing of magazine quality text that is accessible and interesting to the general public, but also sophisticated enough for lawmakers and long-time river interests represented to have their needs met. Some story source names will be provided by the Corps, but most of the idea and article development relies on the contractor initiative, and a variety of sources representing collaboration will be expected for a given piece. Contractor is responsible for shooting and/or purchasing photography/art work and for securing highresolution photography (if available) from the Corps or other relevant organizations/agencies. Stories should strive for a timely hook, when appropriate, but also be written in a way timeless enough to keep them relevant through the three-month period during which each issue is in circulation. The story mix must support a watershedwide approach to river sustainability now championed by the Corps and its partners but also a format established with earlier issues that includes segments such as: "My Mississippi" personality profiles, and educational but fun and graphically interesting Kids Page and multiple stories that connect to various Corps missions. All story development and review will be agreed upon by the PORT team prior to start of work and final story development by the contractor. All development is to be consistent with the current Our Mississippi outreach program and the Corps of Engineers design standards. Each newsletter is subject to reviews conducted by the COR and study team members. These reviews will further refine the draft articles and help shape the final newsletter. The Contractor will be present for all draft review teleconferences and will be responsible for making all required changes to the newsletter to create the next version. The review process is iterative and usually will require a minimum of three draft reviews and a maximum of five reviews. Changes and comments will be received in various forms from fax, email, and verbal. The Contractor is responsible for making all changes and rewriting the articles based on study team comments. The Contractor will respond in writing to all written comments received. The Contractor is responsible for proper grammar usage and assuring there are no spelling errors in draft versions of the newsletters.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 7 of 115

D. The final draft of the newsletter will be approved by the COR in consultation with other internal Corps study members. Once the newsletter is approved for printing, a high resolution PDF of the final document will be emailed to the COR for final approval. The COR will have one day to review, make changes, and approve proof copy. If mistakes are found in the proof that are significant errors/omissions, corrections will be required and a new proof copy delivered to the COR for final approval. Proof copies can be overnight delivered using any overnight service. The Contractor is responsible for the subsequent printing and distribution of 50,000 copies of the newsletter. The newsletter is to be printed on white, 80 lb., 14"x21" recycled paper, using soy ink in full 6 color processing. Printing is a full bleed document. Printer plates are to be created at a minimum of 133 line screen resolution for maximum clarity. For mailing, the newsletter is to be folded in half, folded in half again, and tabbed on the center of the open end (same as shown on past newsletters). E. The distribution is to be done using the U.S. Post Office, third class bulk rate mail (the piece does not qualify for bulk rate discounts). Two databases in Microsoft Excel will be provided by the COR prior to each mailing for the most current addresses. The list is currently at 50,000 addresses and is anticipated to grow 5% each quarter. The contractor is to plan to accommodate this growth rate for each quarterly distribution. The preferred mailing method utilizes ink jetting the addresses on the newsletters and presorting the newsletters before they are mailed to save the Government money. The newsletters must be post marked by the dates indicated in paragraph 4.A of this scope of work. The Contractor will also distribute bulk mailings to the other District and Division offices involved in the study. All extra copies of the newsletter are to be mailed to the COR. F. The final step in distribution of the newsletter is an electronic PDF version of the newsletter for use on the Corps Internet Web Page. This needs to be delivered to the COR within 2 days after each final newsletter is submitted. Both a Hi-Rez and Low-Rez PDFs are required to be submitted. 3. Contract Pricing A. The Contractor's pricing shall include the cost of all data collection, writing, and editing of newsletter articles, travel, teleconferences, and associated costs to accomplish the work under the contract, except as may be otherwise specifically provided for in this contract.

4. Schedules and Submission A. All work under this contract shall be completed and submitted in a timely manner to meet target distribution dates throughout the contract period. Distribution dates for the newsletters are no later than 30 March, 15 June, and 15 Sept. Work will begin 25 February, or as soon as the contract is in place. Work will conclude on 30 September, so the contractor is expected to be ready and able to work efficiently and effectively to keep the tight schedule and avoid delays to the schedule.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 8 of 115

1. The newsletter is to be in preliminary form at least two weeks before the target distribution date. Final draft newsletter shall be submitted one week before distribution date. Proof copy of original being sent to printer shall be provided to COR 3 days prior to distribution date. B. The COR will complete review and advise the Contractor of any required revision within one week after receipt of draft newsletters and two days after receipt of final proof newsletters. C. The Contractor shall make required revisions in accordance with review comments of the COR or as coordinated with other authorized representatives of the Corps. D. All general information, computations, graphs, computer and facsimile supplies, and other needs made under this contract shall be obtained by the contractor. The COR will assist in reviews and obtaining comments from internal Corps study members. All photographs, computer files, and data gathered for use in this contract become the exclusive property of the Government.

5. Coordination A. During the progress of the work, the Contractor shall confer with the COR regularly to assure that the completed articles and draft newsletters meet the approval of the COR. The COR is authorized to call and check the progress of newsletters periodically. The contract price shall include attendance at meetings between the COR and the Contractor in St. Paul, MN, on site, to be called by the COR, (maximum of four meetings per newsletter) and such additional conferences in St. Paul and visits to the study area as the Contractor deems necessary for the proper execution of the work.

6. Data Provided by the Government: The Government will provide the following for use by the Contractor in completion of the contract requirements specified above: (a) The Government will provide background information, past newsletters from the UMR. All correspondence related to the UMR Corps programs and communications, past template information for newsletter layout/design, and current Excel database for mailing names. (b) The Government will provide assistance for the clarification of information the contractor will gather during the story development and layout design elements and offer any other explanation, clarification where needed.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 9 of 115

(c) The Government will provide meeting arrangements for all face-to-face meetings and call in teleconference numbers for all call in meetings with the entire team. (one-on-one meetings and participation for writing stories and collecting data will not be coordinated by the Government).

7. Contractor Deliverables: The contract shall provide to the St. Paul District via portable hard drive all artwork and images created under this contract. (a) Newsletters printed in the quantity of 20,000 pieces to be ink jetted and mailed using the USPS, thru best practices. (b) Newsletters bulk, in the quantity of 30,000 to some 350 locations, to be boxed and shipped using any common parcel carrier. A portion of this bulk delivery, approximately 8,000 pieces is to be boxed and divided equally to: the St. Paul District, the Rock Island District, the St. Louis District, the Memphis District, the Vicksburg District, and the New Orleans District U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. (c) Electronic versions, both Hi-Rez print and web quality pdf files. The web file is to be in a flip booklet format so a typical E-reader can view pages separately and easily navigate thru the document.

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

13. Will be escorted in areas where they may be exposed to classified and/or sensitive materials and/or sensitive or restricted areas. All contract employees, including subcontractor employees who are not in possession of the appropriate security clearance, will be escorted in areas where they may be exposed to classified and/or sensitive materials and/or sensitive or restricted areas.

15. Prescreen candidates using EVerify Program. The Contractor must prescreen Candidates using the Everify Program (http://www.dhs.gov/EVerify) website to meet the established employment eligibility requirements. The Vendor must ensure that the Candidate has two valid forms of Government issued identification prior to ensure the correct information is entered into the Everify system. An initial list of verified/eligible Candidates must be provided to the COR no later than 3 business days after the initial contract award.

3. Access and General Protection/Security Policy and Procedures. All contractor and all associated subcontractors employees shall comply with applicable installation, facility and area commander installation/facility access and local security

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 10 of 115

policies and procedures (provided by government representative). The contractor shall also provide all information required for background checks to meet installation access requirements to be accomplished by installation Provost Marshal Office, Director of Emergency Services or Security Office. Contractor workforce must comply with all personal identity verification requirements as directed by DOD, HQDA and/or local policy. In addition to the changes otherwise authorized by the changes clause of this contract, should the Force Protection Condition (FPCON) at any individual facility or installation change, the Government may require changes in contractor security matters or processes.

52.202-1

DEFINITIONS (NOV 2013)

When a solicitation provision or contract clause uses a word or term that is defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the word or term has the same meaning as the definition in FAR 2.101 in effect at the time the solicitation was issued, unless-(a) The solicitation, or amended solicitation, provides a different definition; (b) The contracting parties agree to a different definition; (c) The part, subpart, or section of the FAR where the provision or clause is prescribed provides a different meaning; or (d) The word or term is defined in FAR Part 31, for use in the cost principles and procedures. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.203-3

GRATUITIES (APR 1984)

(a) The right of the Contractor to proceed may be terminated by written notice if, after notice and hearing, the agency head or a designee determines that the Contractor, its agent, or another representative-(1) Offered or gave a gratuity (e.g., an entertainment or gift) to an officer, official, or employee of the Government; and (2) Intended, by the gratuity, to obtain a contract or favorable treatment under a contract. (b) The facts supporting this determination may be reviewed by any court having lawful jurisdiction. (c) If this contract is terminated under paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government is entitled-(1) To pursue the same remedies as in a breach of the contract; and

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 11 of 115 (2) In addition to any other damages provided by law, to exemplary damages of not less than 3 nor more than 10 times the cost incurred by the Contractor in giving gratuities to the person concerned, as determined by the agency head or a designee. (This subparagraph (c)(2) is applicable only if this contract uses money appropriated to the Department of Defense.) (d) The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.203-6 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006) ALTERNATE I (OCT 1995) (a) Except as provided in (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not enter into any agreement with an actual or prospective subcontractor, nor otherwise act in any manner, which has or may have the effect of restricting sales by such subcontractors directly to the Government of any item or process (including computer software) made or furnished by the subcontractor under this contract or under any follow-on production contract. (b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from asserting rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. For acquisitions of commercial items, the prohibition in paragraph (a) applies only to the extent that any agreement restricting sales by subcontractors results in the Federal Government being treated differently from any other prospective purchaser for the sale of the commercial item(s). (c) The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

52.203-12 2010)

LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (OCT

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Agency means executive agency as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101. Covered Federal action means any of the following actions: (1) Awarding any Federal contract. (2) Making any Federal grant. (3) Making any Federal loan. (4) Entering into any cooperative agreement. (5) Extending, continuing, renewing, amending, or modifying any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 12 of 115

Indian tribe and tribal organization have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b) and include Alaskan Natives. Influencing or attempting to influence means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action. Local government means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government. Officer or employee of an agency includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency: (1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under Title 5, United States Code, including a position under a temporary appointment. (2) A member of the uniformed services, as defined in subsection 101(3), Title 37, United States Code. (3) A special Government employee, as defined in section 202, Title 18, United States Code. (4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, Title 5, United States Code, appendix 2. Person means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit, or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization eligible to receive Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans from an agency, but only with respect to expenditures by such tribe or organization that are made for purposes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause and are permitted by other Federal law. Reasonable compensation means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government. Reasonable payment means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector. Recipient includes the Contractor and all subcontractors. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization eligible to receive Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans from an agency, but only with respect to expenditures by such tribe or organization that are made for purposes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause and are permitted by other Federal law. Regularly employed means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within 1 year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days. State means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or an outlying area of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 13 of 115 (b) Prohibition. 31 U.S.C. 1352 prohibits a recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement from using appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal actions. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1352, the Contractor shall not use appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the award of this contractor the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of this contract. (1) The term appropriated funds does not include profit or fee from a covered Federal action. (2) To the extent the Contractor can demonstrate that the Contractor has sufficient monies, other than Federal appropriated funds, the Government will assume that these other monies were spent for any influencing activities that would be unallowable if paid for with Federal appropriated funds. (c) Exceptions. The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this clause does not apply under the following conditions: (1) Agency and legislative liaison by Contractor employees. (i) Payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of the Contractor if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to this contract. For purposes of this paragraph, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is permitted at any time. (ii) Participating with an agency in discussions that are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action, but that concern-(A) The qualities and characteristics (including individual demonstrations) of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; or (B) The application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use. (iii) Providing prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action; (iv) Participating in technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and (v) Making capability presentations prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub.L. 95-507, and subsequent amendments. (2) Professional and technical services. (i) A payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a covered Federal action, if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal action or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal action. (ii) Any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a covered Federal action if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal action or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal action. Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 14 of 115 (iii) As used in paragraph (c)(2) of this clause, ``professional and technical services'' are limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline (for examples, see FAR 3.803(a)(2)(iii)). (iv) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation and any other requirements in the actual award documents. (3) Only those communications and services expressly authorized by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this clause are permitted. (d) Disclosure. (1) If the Contractor did not submit OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, with its offer, but registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have subsequently made a lobbying contact on behalf of the Contractor with respect to this contract, the Contractor shall complete and submit OMB Standard Form LLL to provide the name of the lobbying registrants, including the individuals performing the services. (2) If the Contractor did submit OMB Standard Form LLL disclosure pursuant to paragraph (d) of the provision at FAR 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, and a change occurs that affects Block 10 of the OMB Standard Form LLL (name and address of lobbying registrant or individuals performing services), the Contractor shall, at the end of the calendar quarter in which the change occurs, submit to the Contracting Officer within 30 days an updated disclosure using OMB Standard Form LLL. (e) Penalties. (1) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under paragraph (b) of this clause or who fails to file or amend the disclosure to be filed or amended by paragraph (d) of this clause shall be subject to civil penalties as provided for by 31 U.S.C.1352. An imposition of a civil penalty does not prevent the Government from seeking any other remedy that may be applicable. (2) Contractors may rely without liability on the representation made by their subcontractors in the certification and disclosure form. (f) Cost allowability. Nothing in this clause makes allowable or reasonable any costs which would otherwise be unallowable or unreasonable. Conversely, costs made specifically unallowable by the requirements in this clause will not be made allowable under any other provision. (g) Subcontracts. (1) The Contractor shall obtain a declaration, including the certification and disclosure in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the provision at FAR 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, from each person requesting or receiving a subcontract exceeding $150,000 under this contract. The Contractor or subcontractor that awards the subcontract shall retain the declaration. (2) A copy of each subcontractor disclosure form (but not certifications) shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the prime Contractor. The prime Contractor shall, at the end of the calendar quarter in which the disclosure form is submitted by the subcontractor, submit to the Contracting Officer within 30 days a copy of all disclosures. Each subcontractor certification shall be retained in the subcontract file of the awarding Contractor. (3) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (g), in any subcontract exceeding $150,000. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.203-17 CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE WHISTLEBLOWER RIGHTS AND REQUIREMENT TO INFORM

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 15 of 115 EMPLOYEES OF WHISTLEBLOWER RIGHTS (SEP 2013) (a) This contract and employees working on this contract will be subject to the whistleblower rights and remedies in the pilot program on Contractor employee whistleblower protections established at 41 U.S.C. 4712 by section 828 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239) and FAR 3.908. (b) The Contractor shall inform its employees in writing, in the predominant language of the workforce, of employee whistleblower rights and protections under 41 U.S.C. 4712, as described in section 3.908 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts over the simplified acquisition threshold. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (May 2011) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Postconsumer fiber means-- (1) Paper, paperboard, and fibrous materials from retail stores, office buildings, homes, and so forth, after they have passed through their end-usage as a consumer item, including: used corrugated boxes; old newspapers; old magazines; mixed waste paper; tabulating cards; and used cordage; or (2) All paper, paperboard, and fibrous materials that enter and are collected from municipal solid waste; but not (3) Fiber derived from printers' over-runs, converters' scrap, and over-issue publications. (b) The Contractor is required to submit paper documents, such as offers, letters, or reports that are printed or copied double-sided on paper containing at least 30 percent postconsumer fiber, whenever practicable, when not using electronic commerce methods to submit information or data to the Government. (End of clause)

52.204-10 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (JULY 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: Executive means officers, managing partners, or any other employees in management positions.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 16 of 115 First-tier subcontract means a subcontract awarded directly by the Contractor for the purpose of acquiring supplies or services (including construction) for performance of a prime contract. It does not include the Contractor's supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for materials or supplies that benefit multiple contracts and/or the costs of which are normally applied to a Contractor's general and administrative expenses or indirect costs. Month of award means the month in which a contract is signed by the Contracting Officer or the month in which a first-tier subcontract is signed by the Contractor. Total compensation means the cash and noncash dollar value earned by the executive during the Contractor's preceding fiscal year and includes the following (for more information see 17 CFR 229.402(c)(2)): (1) Salary and bonus. (2) Awards of stock, stock options, and stock appreciation rights. Use the dollar amount recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the fiscal year in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) 718, CompensationStock Compensation. (3) Earnings for services under non-equity incentive plans. This does not include group life, health, hospitalization or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in favor of executives, and are available generally to all salaried employees. (4) Change in pension value. This is the change in present value of defined benefit and actuarial pension plans. (5) Above-market earnings on deferred compensation which is not tax-qualified. (6) Other compensation, if the aggregate value of all such other compensation (e.g., severance, termination payments, value of life insurance paid on behalf of the employee, perquisites or property) for the executive exceeds $10,000. (b) Section 2(d)(2) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government Funding Transparency Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-252), requires the Contractor to report information on subcontract awards. The law requires all reported information be made public, therefore, the Contractor is responsible for notifying its subcontractors that the required information will be made public. (c) Nothing in this clause requires the disclosure of classified information. (d)(1) Executive compensation of the prime contractor. As a part of its annual registration requirement in the System for Award Management (SAM) database (FAR provision 52.204-7), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for its preceding completed fiscal year, if-- (i) In the Contractor's preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received-- (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 17 of 115 assistance; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm.). (2) First-tier subcontract information. Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, or as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, the Contractor shall report the following information at http://www.fsrs.gov for that first-tier subcontract. (The Contractor shall follow the instructions at http://www.fsrs.gov to report the data.) (i) Unique identifier (DUNS Number) for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the subcontractor's parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company. (ii) Name of the subcontractor. (iii) Amount of the subcontract award. (iv) Date of the subcontract award. (v) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract. (vi) Subcontract number (the subcontract number assigned by the Contractor). (vii) Subcontractor's physical address including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (viii) Subcontractor's primary performance location including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (ix) The prime contract number, and order number if applicable. (x) Awarding agency name and code. (xi) Funding agency name and code. (xii) Government contracting office code. (xiii) Treasury account symbol (TAS) as reported in FPDS. (xiv) The applicable North American Industry Classification System code (NAICS). (3) Executive compensation of the first-tier subcontractor. Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, and annually thereafter (calculated from the prime contract award date), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for that first-tier subcontractor for the first-tier subcontractor's preceding completed fiscal year at http://www.fsrs.gov, if-- (i) In the subcontractor's preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 18 of 115

(A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm.) (e) The Contractor shall not split or break down first-tier subcontract awards to a value less than $25,000 to avoid the reporting requirements in paragraph (d). (f) The Contractor is required to report information on a first-tier subcontract covered by paragraph (d) when the subcontract is awarded. Continued reporting on the same subcontract is not required unless one of the reported data elements changes during the performance of the subcontract. The Contractor is not required to make further reports after the first-tier subcontract expires. (g)(1) If the Contractor in the previous tax year had gross income, from all sources, under $300,000, the Contractor is exempt from the requirement to report subcontractor awards. (2) If a subcontractor in the previous tax year had gross income from all sources under $300,000, the Contractor does not need to report awards for that subcontractor. (h) The FSRS database at http://www.fsrs.gov will be prepopulated with some information from SAM and FPDS databases. If FPDS information is incorrect, the contractor should notify the contracting officer. If the SAM database information is incorrect, the contractor is responsible for correcting this information. (End of clause)

52.212-1

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JULY 2013)

(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show-(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers;

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 19 of 115

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers: (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 20 of 115 (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to--GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section, Suite 8100, 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20407, Telephone (202) 619-8925, Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 21 of 115

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS +4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional SAM records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) System for Award Management. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the SAM database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the SAM database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the SAM database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov.

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 22 of 115

(End of provision)

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2013) ALTERNATE I (APR 2011) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision: "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 23 of 115 (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-- (1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 24 of 115 "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted electronically on the SAM website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.2123, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.) These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 25 of 115 (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a womenowned small business concern. Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a womenowned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-(i) It ___ is, ___ is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ___ ballot] is, [ ___ ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-(i) It [ ___ ballot] is, [ ___ ballot] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ___ ballot] is, [ ___ ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___ ) is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: _____________________________________________

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 26 of 115 (10) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.) (i) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not an emerging small business. (ii) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or (B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Average Annual Number of Employees Gross Revenues ___ 50 or fewer ___ $1 million or less ___ 51 - 100 ___ $1,000,001 - $2 million ___ 101 - 250 ___ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million ___ 251 - 500 ___ $3,500,001 - $5 million ___ 501 - 750 ___ $5,000,001 - $10 million ___ 751 - 1,000 ___ $10,000,001 - $17 million ___ Over 1,000 ___ Over $17 million (11) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.) (i) General. The offeror represents that either-(A) It ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search Database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ( ___ ) has, ( ___ )( has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 27 of 115

(ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ___ .) (12) Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls): ___ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ___ ) has, ( ___ ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and (ii) It ( ___ ) has, ( ___ ) has not, filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It ( ___ ) has developed and has on file, ( ___ ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ( ___ ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 28 of 115 need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. ___ ___ ___ COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___ ___ ___

(List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. ___ COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 29 of 115 ___ ___ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. ___ ___ ___ COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___ ___ ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: ___ Country of Origin: ___

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 30 of 115 ___ ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: ___ ___ ___ Country of Origin: ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Trade Agreements''. (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No.: ___ ___ ___ Country of Origin: ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary]

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 31 of 115

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) ( ___ ) Are, ( ___ ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and (2) ( ___ ) Have, ( ___ ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) ( ___ ) Are, ( ___ ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ ___ ballot] Have, [ ___ ballot] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 32 of 115 (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: ___ ___ ___ Listed Countries of Origin: ___ ___ ___

(2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) ( ___ )(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ( ___ ) (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ( ___ )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ( ___ ) Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.) ( ___ ) (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ___ ) does ( ___ ) does not certify that--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 33 of 115 (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. ( ___ ) (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ___ ) does ( ___ ) does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ( ___ ) TIN: --------------------.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 34 of 115

( ___

) TIN has been applied for.

( ___ ) TIN is not required because: ( ___ ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ( ___ ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ( ___ ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ( ___ ) Sole proprietorship; ( ___ ) Partnership; ( ___ ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ( ___ ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ( ___ ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ( ___ ) Foreign government; ( ___ ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ( ___ ) Other ----------. (5) Common parent. ( ___ ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ( ___ ) Name and TIN of common parent: Name ___ . TIN - ___ . (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 35 of 115 (o) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision)

52.212-4

CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (SEP 2013)

(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights (1) within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 36 of 115 arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement or any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include-(i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--System for Award Management, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 37 of 115

(h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.-(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 38 of 115 (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 39 of 115 (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 4712 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) the schedule of supplies/services; (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts, and Unauthorized Obligations paragraphs of this clause; (3) the clause at 52.212-5; (4) addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software; (5) solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation; (6) other paragraphs of this clause; (7) the Standard Form 1449; (8) other documents, exhibits, and attachments; and (9) the specification. (t) System for Award Management (SAM). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the SAM database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the SAM database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the SAM database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the SAM does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the SAM database; (B) comply with the requirements of subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or changeof-name agreement, the SAM information that shows the Contractor to be other than the

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 40 of 115 Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the SAM record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the SAM database. Information provided to the Contractor's SAM record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via SAM accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. (u) Unauthorized Obligations. (1) Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an AntiDeficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (i) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an ``I agree'' click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., ``click-wrap'' or ``browse-wrap'' agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (iii) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures. (End of clause)

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEVIATION 2013-O0019) (JAN 2014) (a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 41 of 115 this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (b) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clauses of this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (b) (1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (41 U.S.C. 3509). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C .Chapter 67). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. Chapter 67). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain ServicesRequirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. Chapter 67). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (E.O. 12989) (JUL 2012).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 42 of 115

(xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). (xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) 42 U.S.C. 1792). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.24764. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)

52.219-1

SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (APR 2012) - ALTERNATE I (APR 2011)

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 511199. (2) The small business size standard is 500. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern. (2) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 43 of 115 WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (6) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (7) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (8) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:____________.) Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (9) (Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.) The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls: ____ Black American. ____ Hispanic American. ____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 44 of 115 ____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern," means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern," means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm's status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both;

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 45 of 115 (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of provision)

52.219-6

NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011)

(a) Definition. "Small business concern," as used in this clause, means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the size standards in this solicitation. (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to-(1) Contracts that have been totally set aside or reserved for small business concerns; and (2) Orders set aside for small business concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns. Offers received from concerns that are not small business concerns shall be considered nonresponsive and will be rejected. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a small business concern. (d) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts. (End of clause)

52.219-8

UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JULY 2013)

(a) It is the policy of the United States that small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns shall have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in performing contracts let by any Federal agency, including contracts and subcontracts for subsystems, assemblies, components, and related services for major systems. It is further the policy of the United States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their subcontracts with small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and womenowned small business concerns. (b) The Contractor hereby agrees to carry out this policy in the awarding of subcontracts to the fullest extent consistent with efficient contract performance. The Contractor further agrees to cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be conducted by the United States Small Business Administration or the awarding agency of the United States as may be necessary to determine the extent of the Contractor's compliance with this clause.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 46 of 115

(c) Definitions. As used in this contract-HUBZone small business concern means a small business concern that appears on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration. Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). Small business concern means a small business as defined pursuant to Section 3 of the Small Business Act and relevant regulations promulgated pursuant thereto. Small disadvantaged business concern means a small business concern that represents, as part of its offer that-(1)(i) It has received certification as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR part 124, subpart B; (ii) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification; (iii) Where the concern is owned by one or more individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (iv) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, or (2) It represents in writing that it qualifies as a small disadvantaged business (SDB) for any Federal subcontracting program, and believes in good faith that it is owned and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and meets the SDB eligibility criteria of 13 CFR 124.1002. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. Women-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women, or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 47 of 115

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d)(1) Contractors acting in good faith may rely on written representations by their subcontractors regarding their status as a small business concern, a veteran-owned small business concern, a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern, a small disadvantaged business concern, or a women-owned small business concern. (2) The Contractor shall confirm that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone small business concern is certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern by accessing the System for Award Management database or by contacting the SBA. Options for contacting the SBA include-(i) HUBZone small business database search application Web page at http://dsbs.sba.gov/dsbs/search/dsp_searchhubzone.cfm; or http://www.sba.gov/hubzone; (ii) In writing to the Director/HUB, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington DC 20416; or (iii) The SBA HUBZone Help Desk at hubzone@sba.gov. (End of clause)

52.219-28

POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (JULY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Long-term contract means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options. However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority. Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (c) of this clause. Such a concern is ``not dominant in its field of operation'' when it does not exercise a controlling or major influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of employees, financial resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials, processes, patents, license agreements, facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity. (b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size status according to paragraph (e) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (g) of this clause, upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract. (2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract. (3) For long-term contracts--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 48 of 115

(i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and (ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any option thereafter. (c) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards. (d) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees. (e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation required by paragraph (b) of this clause by validating or updating all its representations in the Representations and Certifications section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation or update. (f) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause. (g) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have a representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed: The Contractor represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern under NAICS Code contract number . (Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title). (End of clause) - assigned to

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.222-3

CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not employ in the performance of this contract any person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court of a State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands. (b) The Contractor is not prohibited from employing persons-(1) On parole or probation to work at paid employment during the term of their sentence; (2) Who have been pardoned or who have served their terms; or

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 49 of 115 (3) Confined for violation of the laws of any of the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands who are authorized to work at paid employment in the community under the laws of such jurisdiction, if-(i) The worker is paid or is in an approved work training program on a voluntary basis; (ii) Representatives of local union central bodies or similar labor union organizations have been consulted; (iii) Such paid employment will not result in the displacement of employed workers, or be applied in skills, crafts, or trades in which there is a surplus of available gainful labor in the locality, or impair existing contracts for services; (iv) The rates of pay and other conditions of employment will not be less than those paid or provided for work of a similar nature in the locality in which the work is being performed; and (v) The Attorney General of the United States has certified that the work-release laws or regulations of the jurisdiction involved are in conformity with the requirements of Executive Order 11755, as amended by Executive Orders 12608 and 12943. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.222-22

PREVIOUS CONTRACTS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTS (FEB 1999)

The offeror represents that -(a) ( ) It has, ( ) has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; (b) ( ) It has, ( ) has not, filed all required compliance reports; and (c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract awards. (End of provision)

52.222-26

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007)

(a) Definition. United States, as used in this clause, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Wake Island. (b)(1) If, during any 12-month period (including the 12 months preceding the award of this contract), the Contractor has been or is awarded nonexempt Federal contracts and/or subcontracts that have an aggregate value in excess of $10,000, the Contractor shall comply with this clause, except for work performed outside the United States by employees who were not recruited within the United States. Upon request, the Contractor shall provide information necessary to determine the applicability of this clause.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 50 of 115

(2) If the Contractor is a religious corporation, association, educational institution, or society, the requirements of this clause do not apply with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on of the Contractor's activities (41 CFR 60-1.5). (c) (1) The Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. However, it shall not be a violation of this clause for the Contractor to extend a publicly announced preference in employment to Indians living on or near an Indian reservation, in connection with employment opportunities on or near an Indian reservation, as permitted by 41 CFR 60-1.5. (2) The Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. This shall include, but not be limited to, (i) employment, (ii) upgrading, (iii) demotion, (iv) transfer, (v) recruitment or recruitment advertising, (vi) layoff or termination, (vii) rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and (viii) selection for training, including apprenticeship. (3) The Contractor shall post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment the notices to be provided by the Contracting Officer that explain this clause. (4) The Contractor shall, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. (5) The Contractor shall send, to each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, the notice to be provided by the Contracting Officer advising the labor union or workers' representative of the Contractor's commitments under this clause, and post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. (6) The Contractor shall comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. (7) The Contractor shall furnish to the contracting agency all information required by Executive Order 11246, as amended, and by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. The Contractor shall also file Standard Form 100 (EEO-1), or any successor form, as prescribed in 41 CFR part 60-1. Unless the Contractor has filed within the 12 months preceding the date of contract award, the Contractor shall, within 30 days after contract award, apply to either the regional Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) or the local office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for the necessary forms. (8) The Contractor shall permit access to its premises, during normal business hours, by the contracting agency or the OFCCP for the purpose of conducting on-site compliance evaluations and complaint investigations. The Contractor shall permit the Government to inspect and copy any books, accounts, records (including computerized records), and other material that may be relevant to the matter under investigation and pertinent to compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and rules and regulations that implement the Executive Order. (9) If the OFCCP determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with this clause or any rule, regulation, or order of the Secretary of Labor, this contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the Contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts, under the procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246, as amended. In addition, sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked against the Contractor as provided in Executive Order 11246, as amended; in the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor; or as otherwise provided by law. (10) The Contractor shall include the terms and conditions of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order that is not exempted by the rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued under Executive Order 11246, as amended, so that these terms and conditions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 51 of 115

(11) The Contractor shall take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the contracting officer may direct as a means of enforcing these terms and conditions, including sanctions for noncompliance; provided, that if the Contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of any direction, the Contractor may request the United States to enter into the litigation to protect the interests of the United States. (d) Notwithstanding any other clause in this contract, disputes relative to this clause will be governed by the procedures in 41 CFR 60-1.1. (End of clause)

52.222-36

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010)

(a) General. (1) Regarding any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified, the Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant because of physical or mental disability. The Contractor agrees to take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment, and otherwise treat qualified individuals with disabilities without discrimination based upon their physical or mental disability in all employment practices such as-(i) Recruitment, advertising, and job application procedures; (ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff, and rehiring; (iii) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation; (iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists; (v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave; (vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the Contractor; (vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeships, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training; (viii) Activities sponsored by the Contractor, including social or recreational programs; and (ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. (2) The Contractor agrees to comply with the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) issued under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 793) (the Act), as amended. (b) Postings. (1) The Contractor agrees to post employment notices stating-(i) The Contractor's obligation under the law to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities; and (ii) The rights of applicants and employees.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 52 of 115 (2) These notices shall be posted in conspicuous places that are available to employees and applicants for employment. The Contractor shall ensure that applicants and employees with disabilities are informed of the contents of the notice (e.g., the Contractor may have the notice read to a visually disabled individual, or may lower the posted notice so that it might be read by a person in a wheelchair). The notices shall be in a form prescribed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract Compliance of the U.S. Department of Labor (Deputy Assistant Secretary) and shall be provided by or through the Contracting Officer. (3) The Contractor shall notify each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract understanding, that the Contractor is bound by the terms of Section 503 of the Act and is committed to take affirmative action to employ, and advance in employment, qualified individuals with physical or mental disabilities. (c) Noncompliance. If the Contractor does not comply with the requirements of this clause, appropriate actions may be taken under the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to the Act. (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order in excess of $15,000 unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary. The Contractor shall act as specified by the Deputy Assistant Secretary to enforce the terms, including action for noncompliance. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.222-41

SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965 (NOV 2007)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-"Act," means the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). "Contractor," when this clause is used in any subcontract, shall be deemed to refer to the subcontractor, except in the term "Government Prime Contractor." "Service employee," means any person engaged in the performance of this contract other than any person employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as these terms are defined in Part 541 of Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, as revised. It includes all such persons regardless of any contractual relationship that may be alleged to exist between a Contractor or subcontractor and such persons. (b) Applicability. This contract is subject to the following provisions and to all other applicable provisions of the Act and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4). This clause does not apply to contracts or subcontracts administratively exempted by the Secretary of Labor or exempted by 41 U.S.C. 356, as interpreted in Subpart C of 29 CFR Part 4. (c) Compensation. (1) Each service employee employed in the performance of this contract by the Contractor or any subcontractor shall be paid not less than the minimum monetary wages and shall be furnished fringe benefits in accordance with the wages and fringe benefits determined by the Secretary of Labor, or authorized representative, as specified in any wage determination attached to this contract. (2)(i) If a wage determination is attached to this con- tract, the Contractor shall classify any class of service employee which is not listed therein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage determination) so as to provide a reasonable relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 53 of 115 wage determination. Such conformed class of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the fringe benefits as are determined pursuant to the procedures in this paragraph (c). (ii) This conforming procedure shall be initiated by the Contractor prior to the performance of contract work by the unlisted class of employee. The Contractor shall submit Standard Form (SF) 1444, Request For Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate, to the Contracting Officer no later than 30 days after the unlisted class of employee performs any contract work. The Contracting Officer shall review the proposed classification and rate and promptly submit the completed SF 1444 (which must include information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the employees' authorized representatives or the employees themselves together with the agency recommendation), and all pertinent informa-tion to the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. The Wage and Hour Division will approve, modify, or disapprove the action or render a final determination in the event of disagreement within 30 days of receipt or will notify the Contracting Officer within 30 days of receipt that additional time is necessary. (iii) The final determination of the conformance action by the Wage and Hour Division shall be transmitted to the Contracting Officer who shall promptly notify the Contractor of the action taken. Each affected employee shall be furnished by the Contractor with a written copy of such determination or it shall be posted as a part of the wage determination. (iv)(A) The process of establishing wage and fringe benefit rates that bear a reasonable relationship to those listed in a wage determination cannot be reduced to any single formula. The approach used may vary from wage determination to wage determination depending on the circumstances. Standard wage and salary administration practices which rank various job classifications by pay grade pursuant to point schemes or other job factors may, for example, be relied upon. Guidance may also be obtained from the way different jobs are rated under Federal pay systems (Federal Wage Board Pay System and the General Schedule) or from other wage determina- tions issued in the same locality. Basic to the establishment of any conformable wage rate(s) is the concept that a pay relationship should be maintained between job classifications based on the skill required and the duties performed. (B) In the case of a contract modification, an exercise of an option, or extension of an existing contract, or in any other case where a Contractor succeeds a contract under which the classification in question was previously conformed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause, a new conformed wage rate and fringe benefits may be assigned to the conformed classification by indexing (i.e., adjusting) the previous conformed rate and fringe benefits by an amount equal to the average (mean) percentage increase (or decrease, where appropriate) between the wages and fringe benefits specified for all classifications to be used on the contract which are listed in the current wage determination, and those specified for the corresponding classifications in the previously applicable wage determination. Where conforming actions are accomplished in accordance with this paragraph prior to the performance of contract work by the unlisted class of employees, the Contractor shall advise the Contracting Officer of the action taken but the other procedures in subdivision (c)(2)(ii) of this clause need not be followed. (C) No employee engaged in performing work on this contract shall in any event be paid less than the currently applicable minimum wage specified under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended. (v) The wage rate and fringe benefits finally determined under this subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause shall be paid to all employees performing in the classification from the first day on which contract work is performed by them in the classification. Failure to pay the unlisted employees the compensation agreed upon by the interested parties and/or finally determined by the Wage and Hour Division retroactive to the date such class of employees commenced contract work shall be a violation of the Act and this contract. (vi) Upon discovery of failure to comply with subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause, the Wage and Hour Division shall make a final determination of conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits which shall be retroactive to the date such class or classes of employees commenced contract work. (3) Adjustment of Compensation. If the term of this contract is more than 1 year, the minimum monetary wages and fringe benefits required to be paid or fur- nished thereunder to service employees under this contract shall be subject

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 54 of 115 to adjustment after 1 year and not less often than once every 2 years, under wage determinations issued by the Wage and Hour Division. (d) Obligation to Furnish Fringe Benefits. The Contractor or subcontractor may discharge the obligation to furnish fringe benefits specified in the attachment or determined under subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause by furnishing equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits, or by making equivalent or differential cash payments, only in accordance with Subpart D of 29 CFR Part 4. (e) Minimum Wage. In the absence of a minimum wage attachment for this contract, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any person performing work under this contract (regardless of whether the person is a service employee) less than the minimum wage specified by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor or any subcontractor of any other obligation under law or contract for payment of a higher wage to any employee. (f) Successor Contracts. If this contract succeeds a contract subject to the Act under which substantially the same services were furnished in the same locality and service employees were paid wages and fringe benefits provided for in a collective bargaining agreement, in the absence of the minimum wage attachment for this contract setting forth such collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any service employee performing any of the contract work (regardless of whether or not such employee was employed under the predecessor contract), less than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in such collective bargaining agreement, to which such employee would have been entitled if employed under the predecessor contract, including accrued wages and fringe benefits and any prospective increases in wages and fringe benefits provided for under such agreement. No Contractor or subcontractor under this contract may be relieved of the foregoing obligation unless the limitations of 29 CFR 4.1b(b) apply or unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's authorized representative finds, after a hearing as provided in 29 CFR 4.10 that the wages and/or fringe benefits provided for in such agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, or determines, as provided in 29 CFR 4.11, that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's length negotiations. Where it is found in accordance with the review procedures provided in 29 CFR 4.10 and/or 4.11 and Parts 6 and 8 that some or all of the wages and/or fringe benefits contained in a predecessor Contractor's collective bargaining agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, and/or that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's length negotiations, the Department will issue a new or revised wage determination setting forth the applicable wage rates and fringe benefits. Such determination shall be made part of the contract or subcontract, in accordance with the decision of the Administrator, the Administrative Law Judge, or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, irrespective of whether such issuance occurs prior to or after the award of a contract or subcontract (53 Comp. Gen. 401 (1973)). In the case of a wage determination issued solely as a result of a finding of substantial variance, such determination shall be effective as of the date of the final administrative decision. (g) Notification to Employees. The Contractor and any subcontractor under this contract shall notify each service employee commencing work on this contract of the minimum monetary wage and any fringe benefits required to be paid pursuant to this contract, or shall post the wage determination attached to this contract. The poster provided by the Department of Labor (Publication WH 1313) shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Failure to comply with this requirement is a violation of section 2(a)(4) of the Act and of this contract. (h) Safe and Sanitary Working Conditions. The Contractor or subcontractor shall not permit any part of the services called for by this contract to be performed in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions provided by or under the control or supervision of the Contractor or subcontractor which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to the health or safety of the service employees. The Contractor or subcontractor shall comply with the safety and health standards applied under 29 CFR Part 1925. (i) Records. (1) The Contractor and each subcontractor performing work subject to the Act shall make and maintain for 3 years from the completion of the work, and make them available for inspection and transcription by authorized

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 55 of 115 representatives of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, a record of the following: (i) For each employee subject to the Act-(A) Name and address and social security number; (B) Correct work classification or classifications, rate or rates of monetary wages paid and fringe benefits provided, rate or rates of payments in lieu of fringe benefits, and total daily and weekly compensation; (C) Daily and weekly hours worked by each employee; and (D) Any deductions, rebates, or refunds from the total daily or weekly compensation of each employee. (ii) For those classes of service employees not included in any wage determination attached to this contract, wage rates or fringe benefits determined by the interested parties or by the Administrator or authorized representative under the terms of paragraph (c) of this clause. A copy of the report required by subdivision (c)(2)(ii) of this clause will fulfill this requirement. (iii) Any list of the predecessor Contractor's employees which had been furnished to the Contractor as prescribed by paragraph (n) of this clause. (2) The Contractor shall also make available a copy of this contract for inspection or transcription by authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division. (3) Failure to make and maintain or to make available these records for inspection and transcription shall be a violation of the regulations and this contract, and in the case of failure to produce these records, the Contracting Officer, upon direction of the Department of Labor and notification to the Contractor, shall take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until the violation ceases. (4) The Contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division to conduct interviews with employees at the worksite during normal working hours. (j) Pay Periods. The Contractor shall unconditionally pay to each employee subject to the Act all wages due free and clear and without subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by law or regulations, 29 CFR Part 4), rebate, or kickback on any account. These payments shall be made no later than one pay period following the end of the regular pay period in which the wages were earned or accrued. A pay period under this Act may not be of any duration longer than semi-monthly. (k) Withholding of Payments and Termination of Contract. The Contracting Officer shall withhold or cause to be withheld from the Government Prime Contractor under this or any other Government contract with the Prime Contractor such sums as an appropriate official of the Department of Labor requests or such sums as the Contracting Officer decides may be necessary to pay underpaid employees employed by the Contractor or subcontractor. In the event of failure to pay any employees subject to the Act all or part of the wages or fringe benefits due under the Act, the Contracting Officer may, after authorization or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification to the Contractor, take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such violations have ceased. Additionally, any failure to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for termination of the right to proceed with the contract work. In such event, the Government may enter into other contracts or arrangements for completion of the work, charging the Contractor in default with any additional cost. (l) Subcontracts. The Contractor agrees to insert this clause in all subcontracts subject to the Act. (m) Collective Bargaining Agreements Applicable to Service Employees. If wages to be paid or fringe benefits to be furnished any service employees employed by the Government Prime Contractor or any subcontractor under the

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 56 of 115 contract are provided for in a collective bargaining agreement which is or will be effective during any period in which the contract is being performed, the Government Prime Contractor shall report such fact to the Contracting Officer, together with full information as to the application and accrual of such wages and fringe benefits, including any prospective increases, to service employees engaged in work on the contract, and a copy of the collective bargaining agreement. Such report shall be made upon commencing performance of the contract, in the case of collective bargaining agreements effective at such time, and in the case of such agreements or provisions or amendments thereof effective at a later time during the period of contract performance such agreements shall be reported promptly after negotiation thereof. (n) Seniority List. Not less than 10 days prior to completion of any contract being performed at a Federal facility where service employees may be retained in the performance of the succeeding contract and subject to a wage determination which contains vacation or other benefit provisions based upon length of service with a Contractor (predecessor) or successor (29 CFR 4.173), the incumbent Prime Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names of all service employees on the Contractor's or subcontractor's payroll during the last month of contract performance. Such list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment on the contract either with the current or predecessor Contractors of each such service employee. The Contracting Officer shall turn over such list to the successor Contractor at the commencement of the succeeding contract. (o) Rulings and Interpretations. Rulings and interpretations of the Act are contained in Regulations, 29 CFR Part 4. (p) Contractor's Certification. (1) By entering into this contract, the Contractor (and officials thereof) certifies that neither it (nor he or she) nor any person or firm who has a substantial interest in the Contractor's firm is a person or firm ineligible to be awarded Government contracts by virtue of the sanctions imposed under section 5 of the Act. (2) No part of this contract shall be subcontracted to any person or firm ineligible for award of a Government contract under section 5 of the Act. (3) The penalty for making false statements is prescribed in the U.S. Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. 1001. (q) Variations, Tolerances, and Exemptions Involving Employment. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (o) of this clause, the following employees may be employed in accordance with the following variations, tolerances, and exemptions, which the Secretary of Labor, pursuant to section 4(b) of the Act prior to its amendment by Pub. L. 92-473, found to be necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid serious impairment of the conduct of Government business: (1) Apprentices, student-learners, and workers whose earning capacity is impaired by age, physical or mental deficiency, or injury may be employed at wages lower than the minimum wages otherwise required by section 2(a)(1) or 2(b)(1) of the Act without diminishing any fringe benefits or cash payments in lieu thereof required under section 2(a)(2) of the Act, in accordance with the conditions and procedures prescribed for the employment of apprentices, student-learners, handicapped persons, and handicapped clients of sheltered workshops under section 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, in the regulations issued by the Administrator (29 CFR Parts 520, 521, 524, and 525). (2) The Administrator will issue certificates under the Act for the employment of apprentices, student-learners, handicapped persons, or handicapped clients of sheltered workshops not subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, or subject to different minimum rates of pay under the two acts, authorizing appropriate rates of minimum wages (but without changing requirements concerning fringe benefits or supplementary cash payments in lieu thereof), applying procedures prescribed by the applicable regulations issued under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 CFR Parts 520, 521, 524, and 525). (3) The Administrator will also withdraw, annul, or cancel such certificates in accordance with the regulations in 29 CFR Parts 525 and 528. (r) Apprentices. Apprentices will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work they perform

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 57 of 115 when they are employed and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with a State Apprenticeship Agency which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor, or if no such recognized agency exists in a State, under a program registered with the Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS), U.S. Department of Labor. Any employee who is not registered as an apprentice in an approved program shall be paid the wage rate and fringe benefits contained in the applicable wage determination for the journeyman classification of work actually performed. The wage rates paid apprentices shall not be less than the wage rate for their level of progress set forth in the registered program, expressed as the appropriate percentage of the journeyman's rate contained in the applicable wage determination. The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen employed on the contract work in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the Contractor as to his entire work force under the registered program. (s) Tips. An employee engaged in an occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips may have the amount of these tips credited by the employer against the minimum wage required by section 2(a)(1) or section 2(b)(1) of the Act, in accordance with section 3(m) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and Regulations, 29 CFR Part 531. However, the amount of credit shall not exceed $1.34 per hour beginning January 1, 1981. To use this provision-(1) The employer must inform tipped employees about this tip credit allowance before the credit is utilized; (2) The employees must be allowed to retain all tips (individually or through a pooling arrangement and regardless of whether the employer elects to take a credit for tips received); (3) The employer must be able to show by records that the employee receives at least the applicable Service Contract Act minimum wage through the combination of direct wages and tip credit; and (4) The use of such tip credit must have been permitted under any predecessor collective bargaining agreement applicable by virtue of section 4(c) of the Act. Disputes Concerning Labor Standards. The U.S. Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR Parts 4, 6, and 8 procedures for resolving disputes concerning labor standards requirements. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. Disputes within the meaning of this clause include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.222-42

STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)

In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332. THIS STATEMENT IS FOR INFORMATION ONLY: IT IS NOT A WAGE DETERMINATION Employee Class Monetary Wage-Fringe Benefits See attached Wage Determinations.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 58 of 115 (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.222-50

COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Coercion means-(1) Threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; (2) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or (3) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. Commercial sex act means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person. Debt bondage means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of his or her personal services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined. Employee means an employee of the Contractor directly engaged in the performance of work under the contract who has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance. Forced Labor means knowingly providing or obtaining the labor or services of a person-(1) By threats of serious harm to, or physical restraint against, that person or another person; (2) By means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the person to believe that, if the person did not perform such labor or services, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or (3) By means of the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process. Involuntary servitude includes a condition of servitude induced by means of-(1) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such conditions, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or (2) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. Severe forms of trafficking in persons means-(1) Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 59 of 115 (2) The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery. Sex trafficking means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act. (b) Policy. The United States Government has adopted a zero tolerance policy regarding trafficking in persons. Contractors and contractor employees shall not-(1) Engage in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract; (2) Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract; or (3) Use forced labor in the performance of the contract. (c) Contractor requirements. The Contractor shall-(1) Notify its employees of-(i) The United States Government's zero tolerance policy described in paragraph (b) of this clause; and (ii) The actions that will be taken against employees for violations of this policy. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, removal from the contract, reduction in benefits, or termination of employment; and (2) Take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees or subcontractors that violate the policy in paragraph (b) of this clause. (d) Notification. The Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer immediately of-(1) Any information it receives from any source (including host country law enforcement) that alleges a Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee has engaged in conduct that violates this policy; and (2) Any actions taken against Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontractor employees pursuant to this clause. (e) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor's failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), or (f) of this clause may result in -(1) Requiring the Contractor to remove a Contractor employee or employees from the performance of the contract; (2) Requiring the Contractor to terminate a subcontract; (3) Suspension of contract payments; (4) Loss of award fee, consistent with the award fee plan, for the performance period in which the Government determined Contractor non-compliance; (5) Termination of the contract for default or cause, in accordance with the termination clause of this contract; or (6) Suspension or debarment. (f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 60 of 115

(g) Mitigating Factor. The Contracting Officer may consider whether the Contractor had a Trafficking in Persons awareness program at the time of the violation as a mitigating factor when determining remedies. Additional information about Trafficking in Persons and examples of awareness programs can be found at the website for the Department of State's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at http://www.state.gov/g/tip. (End of clause)

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.223-16 IEEE 1680 STANDARD FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF PERSONAL COMPUTER PRODUCTS (DEC 2007) ALTERNATE I (DEC 2007) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Computer monitor means a video display unit used with a computer. Desktop computer means a computer designed for use on a desk or table. Notebook computer means a portable-style or laptop-style computer system. Personal computer product means a notebook computer, a desktop computer, or a computer monitor, and any peripheral equipment that is integral to the operation of such items. For example, the desktop computer together with the keyboard, the mouse, and the power cord would be a personal computer product. Printers, copiers, and fax machines are not included in peripheral equipment, as used in this definition. (b) Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for contractor use at a Government-owned facility, only personal computer products that at the time of submission of proposals were EPEAT Silver registered or higher. Silver is the second level discussed in clause 1.4 of the IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products. (c) For information about the standard, see http://www.epeat.net. (End of clause)

52.223-18 ENCOURAGING CONTRACTOR POLICIES TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (AUG 2011) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Driving-- (1) Means operating a motor vehicle on an active roadway with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light, stop sign, or otherwise. (2) Does not include operating a motor vehicle with or without the motor running when one has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has halted in a location where one can safely remain stationary.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 61 of 115 Text messaging means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device, including for the purpose of short message service texting, e-mailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. The term does not include glancing at or listening to a navigational device that is secured in a commercially designed holder affixed to the vehicle, provided that the destination and route are programmed into the device either before driving or while stopped in a location off the roadway where it is safe and legal to park. (b) This clause implements Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving, dated October 1, 2009. (c) The Contractor is encouraged to-(1) Adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving-(i) Company-owned or -rented vehicles or Government-owned vehicles; or (ii) Privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government. (2) Conduct initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as-(i) Establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving; and (ii) Education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed the micro-purchase threshold. (End of clause)

52.225-13

RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)

(a) Except as authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the Department of the Treasury, the Contractor shall not acquire, for use in the performance of this contract, any supplies or services if any proclamation, Executive order, or statute administered by OFAC, or if OFAC's implementing regulations at 31 CFR chapter V, would prohibit such a transaction by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) Except as authorized by OFAC, most transactions involving Cuba, Iran, and Sudan are prohibited, as are most imports from Burma or North Korea, into the United States or its outlying areas. Lists of entities and individuals subject to economic sanctions are included in OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons at TerList1.html. More information about these restrictions, as well as updates, is available in the OFAC's regulations at 31 CFR chapter V and/or on OFAC's Web site at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/. (c) The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts. (End of clause)

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 62 of 115

52.225-25 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications. (DEC 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-Person-(1) Means-(i) A natural person; (ii) A corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, and any governmental entity operating as a business enterprise; and (iii) Any successor to any entity described in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition; and (2) Does not include a government or governmental entity that is not operating as a business enterprise. Sensitive technology-(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). (b) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this provision or if a waiver has been granted in accordance with 25.7034, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (1) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (2) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. These sanctioned activities are in the areas of development of the petroleum resources of Iran, production of refined petroleum products in Iran, sale and provision of refined petroleum products to Iran, and contributing to Iran's ability to acquire or develop certain weapons or technologies; and (3) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 63 of 115

(d) Exception for trade agreements. The representation requirement of paragraph (c)(1) and the certification requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this provision do not apply if-- (1) This solicitation includes a trade agreements notice or certification (e.g., 52.225-4, 52.225-6, 52.225-12, 52.22524, or comparable agency provision); and (2) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products or designated country construction material. (End of provision)

52.229-3

FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (FEB 2013)

(a) As used in this clause-- "After-imposed Federal tax" means any new or increased Federal excise tax or duty, or tax that was exempted or excluded on the contract date but whose exemption was later revoked or reduced during the contract period, on the transactions or property covered by this contract that the Contractor is required to pay or bear as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. It does not include social security tax or other employment taxes. "After-relieved Federal tax" means any amount of Federal excise tax or duty, except social security or other employment taxes, that would otherwise have been payable on the transactions or property covered by this contract, but which the Contractor is not required to pay or bear, or for which the Contractor obtains a refund or drawback, as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. "All applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties" means all taxes and duties, in effect on the contract date, that the taxing authority is imposing and collecting on the transactions or property covered by this contract. "Contract date" means the date set for bid opening or, if this is a negotiated contract or a modification, the effective date of this contract or modification. "Local taxes" includes taxes imposed by a possession or territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, or the Northern Mariana Islands, if the contract is performed wholly or partly in any of those areas. (b)(1) The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties, except as provided in subparagraph (b)(2)(i) of this clause. (2) Taxes imposed under 26 U.S.C. 5000C may not be-- (i) Included in the contract price; nor (ii) Reimbursed.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 64 of 115 (c) The contract price shall be increased by the amount of any after-imposed Federal tax, provided the Contractor warrants in writing that no amount for such newly imposed Federal excise tax or duty or rate increase was included in the contract price, as a contingency reserve or otherwise. (d) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved Federal tax. (e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any Federal excise tax or duty, except social security or other employment taxes, that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Contractor's fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer. (f) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. (g) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to any Federal excise tax or duty that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. (h) The Government shall, without liability, furnish evidence appropriate to establish exemption from any Federal, State, or local tax when the Contractor requests such evidence and a reasonable basis exists to sustain the exemption. (End of clause)

52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--SYSTEM FOR AWARD MANAGEMENT (JULY 2013) (a) Method of payment. (1) All payments by the Government under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT), except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term "EFT" refers to the funds transfer and may also include the payment information transfer. (2) In the event the Government is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either-(i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or (ii) Request the Government to extend the payment due date until such time as the Government can make payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of this clause). (b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the System for Award Management (SAM) database. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the SAM database. (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR part 210.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 65 of 115 (d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor's EFT information in the SAM database is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the SAM database; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Government used the Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the Government remains responsible for-(i) Making a correct payment; (ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and (iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds. (2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and-(i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Government is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Government shall not make payment, and the provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall apply. (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the SAM database and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to subpart 32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor's financial agent. (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in the SAM database. (End of Clause)

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 66 of 115

52.232-39 UNENFORCEABILITY OF UNAUTHORIZED OBLIGATIONS (JUN 2013) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (1) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (2) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an ``I agree'' click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., ``click-wrap'' or ``browse-wrap'' agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (3) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures. (End of clause)

52.232-40 PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENTS TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEC 2013) (a) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the Contractor shall make accelerated payments to its small business subcontractors under this contract, to the maximum extent practicable and prior to when such payment is otherwise required under the applicable contract or subcontract, after receipt of a proper invoice and all other required documentation from the small business subcontractor. (b) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act. (c) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts with small business concerns, including subcontracts with small business concerns for the acquisition of commercial items. (End of clause)

52.233-2

SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 67 of 115 acknowledgment of receipt from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, St. Paul District, Contracting Division, 180 East Fifth Street, Suite 700, St. Paul, MN 55101. (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision)

52.233-3

PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG. 1996)

(a) Upon receipt of a notice of protest (as defined in FAR 33.101) or a determination that a protest is likely (see FAR 33.102(d)), the Contracting Officer may, by written order to the Contractor, direct the Contractor to stop performance of the work called for by this contract. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Upon receipt of the final decision in the protest, the Contracting Officer shall either-(1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled either before or after a final decision in the protest, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-(1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to an adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. (e) The Government's rights to terminate this contract at any time are not affected by action taken under this clause. (f) If, as the result of the Contractor's intentional or negligent misstatement, misrepresentation, or miscertification, a protest related to this contract is sustained, and the Government pays costs, as provided in FAR 33.102(b)(2) or 33.104(h)(1), the Government may require the Contractor to reimburse the Government the amount of such costs. In addition to any other remedy available, and pursuant to the requirements of Subpart 32.6, the Government may collect this debt by offsetting the amount against any payment due the Contractor under any contract between the Contractor and the Government. (End of clause)

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 68 of 115

52.233-4

APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)

United States law will apply to resolve any claim of breach of this contract. (End of clause)

52.237-3

CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)

(a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to (1) furnish phase-in training and (2) exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor. (b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer's written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer's approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency. (c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct onsite interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor. (d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract. (End of clause)

52.242-13

BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)

In the event the Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether voluntary or involuntary, the Contractor agrees to furnish, by certified mail or electronic commerce method authorized by the contract, written notification of the bankruptcy to the Contracting Officer responsible for administering the contract. This notification shall be furnished within five days of the initiation of the proceedings relating to bankruptcy filing. This notification shall include the date on which the bankruptcy petition was filed, the identity of the court in which the bankruptcy petition was filed, and a listing of Government contract numbers and contracting offices for all Government contracts against which final payment has not been made. This obligation remains in effect until final payment under this contract. (End of clause)

52.247-34

F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991)

(a) The term "f.o.b. destination," as used in this clause, means--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 69 of 115

(1) Free of expense to the Government, on board the carrier's conveyance, at a specified delivery point where the consignee's facility (plant, warehouse, store, lot, or other location to which shipment can be made) is located; and (2) Supplies shall be delivered to the destination consignee's wharf (if destination is a port city and supplies are for export), warehouse unloading platform, or receiving dock, at the expense of the Contractor. The Government shall not be liable for any delivery, storage, demurrage, accessorial, or other charges involved before the actual delivery (or "constructive placement" as defined in carrier tariffs) of the supplies to the destination, unless such charges are caused by an act or order of the Government acting in its contractual capacity. If rail carrier is used, supplies shall be delivered to the specified unloading platform of the consignee. If motor carrier (including "piggyback") is used, supplies shall be delivered to truck tailgate at the unloading platform of the consignee, except when the supplies delivered meet the requirements of Item 568 of the National Motor Freight Classification for "heavy or bulky freight." When supplies meeting the requirements of the referenced Item 568 are delivered, unloading (including movement to the tailgate) shall be performed by the consignee, with assistance from the truck driver, if requested. If the contractor uses rail carrier or freight forwarded for less than carload shipments, the contractor shall ensure that the carrier will furnish tailgate delivery, when required, if transfer to truck is required to complete delivery to consignee. (b) The Contractor shall-(1)(i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or (ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment in conformance with carrier requirements; (2) Prepare and distribute commercial bills of lading; (3) Deliver the shipment in good order and condition to the point of delivery specified in the contract; (4) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods occurring before receipt of the shipment by the consignee at the delivery point specified in the contract; (5) Furnish a delivery schedule and designate the mode of delivering carrier; and (6) Pay and bear all charges to the specified point of delivery. (End of clause)

52.252-5

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN PROVISIONS (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of"(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. (b) The use in this solicitation of any FAR (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (End of provision)

52.252-6

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 70 of 115 (a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any FAR (48 CFR 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (End of clause)

52.253-1

COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)

(a) Any data required to be submitted on a Standard or Optional Form prescribed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) may be submitted on a computer generated version of the form, provided there is no change to the name, content, or sequence of the data elements on the form, and provided the form carries the Standard or Optional Form number and edition date. (b) Unless prohibited by agency regulations, any data required to be submitted on an agency unique form prescribed by an agency supplement to the FAR may be submitted on a computer generated version of the form provided there is no change to the name, content, or sequence of the data elements on the form and provided the form carries the agency form number and edition date. (c) If the Contractor submits a computer generated version of a form that is different than the required form, then the rights and obligations of the parties will be determined based on the content of the required form. (End of clause)

252.201-7000

CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 1991)

(a) "Definition. Contracting officer's representative" means an individual designated in accordance with subsection 201.602-2 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions. (b) If the Contracting Officer designates a contracting officer's representative (COR), the Contractor will receive a copy of the written designation. It will specify the extent of the COR's authority to act on behalf of the contracting officer. The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or changes that will affect price, quality, quantity, delivery, or any other term or condition of the contract. (End of clause)

252.203-7000 REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO COMPENSATION OF FORMER DOD OFFICIALS (SEP 2011) (a) Definition. Covered DoD official, as used in this clause, means an individual that-(1) Leaves or left DoD service on or after January 28, 2008; and (2)(i) Participated personally and substantially in an acquisition as defined in 41 U.S.C. 131 with a value in excess of $10 million, and serves or served--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 71 of 115 (A) In an Executive Schedule position under subchapter II of chapter 53 of Title 5, United States Code; (B) In a position in the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of Title 5, United States Code; or (C) In a general or flag officer position compensated at a rate of pay for grade O-7 or above under section 201 of Title 37, United States Code; or (ii) Serves or served in DoD in one of the following positions: Program manager, deputy program manager, procuring contracting officer, administrative contracting officer, source selection authority, member of the source selection evaluation board, or chief of a financial or technical evaluation team for a contract in an amount in excess of $10 million. (b) The Contractor shall not knowingly provide compensation to a covered DoD official within 2 years after the official leaves DoD service, without first determining that the official has sought and received, or has not received after 30 days of seeking, a written opinion from the appropriate DoD ethics counselor regarding the applicability of post-employment restrictions to the activities that the official is expected to undertake on behalf of the Contractor. (c) Failure by the Contractor to comply with paragraph (b) of this clause may subject the Contractor to rescission of this contract, suspension, or debarment in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 2105(c). (End of clause)

252.203-7002 REQUIREMENT TO INFORM EMPLOYEES OF WHISTLEBLOWER RIGHTS (SEP 2013) (a) The Contractor shall inform its employees in writing, in the predominant native language of the workforce, of contractor employee whistleblower rights and protections under 10 U.S.C. 2409, as described in subpart 203.9 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement. (b) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts. (End of clause)

252.204-7003

CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL WORK PRODUCT (APR 1992)

The Contractor's procedures for protecting against unauthorized disclosure of information shall not require Department of Defense employees or members of the Armed Forces to relinquish control of their work products, whether classified or not, to the contractor. (End of clause)

252.204-7004 ALTERNATE A, SYSTEM FOR AWARD MANAGEMENT (MAY 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 72 of 115 ``System for Award Management (SAM) database'' means the primary Government repository for contractor information required for the conduct of business with the Government. ``Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code'' means-- (1) A code assigned by the Defense Logistics Information Service (DLIS) to identify a commercial or Government entity; or (2) A code assigned by a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that DLIS records and maintains in the CAGE master file. This type of code is known as an ``NCAGE code.'' ``Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number'' means the 9-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet, Inc. (D&B) to identify unique business entities. ``Data Universal Numbering System +4 (DUNS+4) number'' means the DUNS number assigned by D&B plus a 4character suffix that may be assigned by a business concern. (D&B has no affiliation with this 4character suffix.) This 4-character suffix may be assigned at the discretion of the business concern to establish additional SAM records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR 32.11) for the same parent concern. ``Registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) database'' means that-- (1) The contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the DUNS number or the DUNS+4 number, and Contractor and Government Entity (CAGE) code into the SAM database; (2) The contractor has completed the Core Data, Assertions, Representations and Certifications, and Points of Contact sections of the registration in the SAM database; (3) The Government has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Contractor will be required to provide consent for TIN validation to the Government as part of the SAM registration process; and (4) The Government has marked the record ``Active.'' (b)(1) By submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the SAM database prior to award, during performance, and through final payment of any contract, basic agreement, basic ordering agreement, or blanket purchasing agreement resulting from this solicitation. (2) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The DUNS number will be used by the Contracting Officer to verify that the offeror is registered in the SAM database. (c) If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. (1) An offeror may obtain a DUNS number-(i) Via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the offeror does not have internet access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at 1-866-705-5711 if located within the United States; or (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (2) The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information:

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 73 of 115

(i) Company legal business. (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized. (iii) Company Physical Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code. (iv) Company Mailing Address, City, State and Zip Code (if separate from physical). (v) Company Telephone Number. (vi) Date the company was started. (vii) Number of employees at your location. (viii) Chief executive officer/key manager. (ix) Line of business (industry). (x) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity). (d) If the Offeror does not become registered in the SAM database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. (e) Processing time, which normally takes 48 hours, should be taken into consideration when registering. Offerors who are not registered should consider applying for registration immediately upon receipt of this solicitation. (f) Offerors may obtain information on registration at https://www.acquisition.gov. (End of clause)

252.204-7006 BILLING INSTRUCTIONS (OCT 2005) When submitting a request for payment, the Contractor shall-(a) Identify the contract line item(s) on the payment request that reasonably reflect contract work performance; and (b) Separately identify a payment amount for each contract line item included in the payment request. (End of clause)

252.204-7012 SAFEGUARDING OF UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED TECHNICAL INFORMATION (NOV 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Adequate security means protective measures that are commensurate with the consequences and probability of loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to, or modification of information.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 74 of 115

Attribution information means information that identifies the Contractor, whether directly or indirectly, by the grouping of information that can be traced back to the Contractor (e.g., program description or facility locations). Compromise means disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, or a violation of the security policy of a system, in which unauthorized intentional or unintentional disclosure, modification, destruction, or loss of an object, or the copying of information to unauthorized media may have occurred. Contractor information system means an information system belonging to, or operated by or for, the Contractor. Controlled technical information means technical information with military or space application that is subject to controls on the access, use, reproduction, modification, performance, display, release, disclosure, or dissemination. Controlled technical information is to be marked with one of the distribution statements B-through-F, in accordance with DoD Instruction 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents. The term does not include information that is lawfully publicly available without restrictions. Cyber incident means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein. Exfiltration means any unauthorized release of data from within an information system. This includes copying the data through covert network channels or the copying of data to unauthorized media. Media means physical devices or writing surfaces including, but is not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration memory chips, and printouts onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system. Technical information means technical data or computer software, as those terms are defined in the clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data--Non Commercial Items, regardless of whether or not the clause is incorporated in this solicitation or contract. Examples of technical information include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, technical orders, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses and related information, and computer software executable code and source code. (b) Safeguarding requirements and procedures for unclassified controlled technical information. The Contractor shall provide adequate security to safeguard unclassified controlled technical information from compromise. To provide adequate security, the Contractor shall-- (1) Implement information systems security in its project, enterprise, or company-wide unclassified information technology system(s) that may have unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through them. The information systems security program shall implement, at a minimum-- (i) The specified National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-53 security controls identified in the following table; or (ii) If a NIST control is not implemented, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a written explanation of how-- (A) The required security control identified in the following table is not applicable; or (B) An alternative control or protective measure is used to achieve equivalent protection. (2) Apply other information systems security requirements when the Contractor reasonably determines that information systems security measures, in addition to those identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 75 of 115 clause, may be required to provide adequate security in a dynamic environment based on an assessed risk or vulnerability. Table 1--Minimum Security Controls for Safeguarding Minimum required security controls for unclassified controlled technical information requiring safeguarding in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (A description of the security controls is in the NIST SP 800-53, ``Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations'' (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html).) BILLING CODE 5001-06-P [GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR18NO13.031 BILLING CODE 5001-06-C Legend: AC: Access Control AT: Awareness and Training MP: AU: Auditing and Accountability CM: Configuration Management CP: Contingency Planning IA: Identification and Authentication IR: Incident Response MA: Maintenance MP: Media Protection PE: Physical & Environmental Protection PM: Program Management RA: Risk Assessment SC: System & Communications Protection SI: System & Information Integrity (c) Other requirements. This clause does not relieve the Contractor of the requirements specified by applicable statutes or other Federal and DoD safeguarding requirements for Controlled Unclassified Information as established by Executive Order 13556, as well as regulations and guidance established pursuant thereto. (d) Cyber incident and compromise reporting. (1) Reporting requirement. The Contractor shall report as much of the following information as can be obtained to the Department of Defense via (http://dibnet.dod.mil/) within 72 hours of discovery of any cyber incident, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this clause, that affects unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through the Contractor's unclassified information systems: (i) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS). (ii) Contract numbers affected unless all contracts by the company are affected. (iii) Facility CAGE code if the location of the event is different than the prime Contractor location. (iv) Point of contact if different than the POC recorded in the System for Award Management (address, position, telephone, email). (v) Contracting Officer point of contact (address, position, telephone, email).

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 76 of 115

(vi) Contract clearance level. (vii) Name of subcontractor and CAGE code if this was an incident on a subcontractor network. (viii) DoD programs, platforms or systems involved. (ix) Location(s) of compromise. (x) Date incident discovered. (xi) Type of compromise (e.g., unauthorized access, inadvertent release, other). (xii) Description of technical information compromised. (xiii) Any additional information relevant to the information compromise. (2) Reportable cyber incidents. Reportable cyber incidents include the following: (i) A cyber incident involving possible exfiltration, manipulation, or other loss or compromise of any unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through Contractor's, or its subcontractors', unclassified information systems. (ii) Any other activities not included in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this clause that allow unauthorized access to the Contractor's unclassified information system on which unclassified controlled technical information is resident on or transiting. (3) Other reporting requirements. This reporting in no way abrogates the Contractor's responsibility for additional safeguarding and cyber incident reporting requirements pertaining to its unclassified information systems under other clauses that may apply to its contract, or as a result of other U.S. Government legislative and regulatory requirements that may apply (e.g., as cited in paragraph (c) of this clause). (4) Contractor actions to support DoD damage assessment. In response to the reported cyber incident, the Contractor shall-- (i) Conduct further review of its unclassified network for evidence of compromise resulting from a cyber incident to include, but is not limited to, identifying compromised computers, servers, specific data and users accounts. This includes analyzing information systems that were part of the compromise, as well as other information systems on the network that were accessed as a result of the compromise; (ii) Review the data accessed during the cyber incident to identify specific unclassified controlled technical information associated with DoD programs, systems or contracts, including military programs, systems and technology; and (iii) Preserve and protect images of known affected information systems and all relevant monitoring/packet capture data for at least 90 days from the cyber incident to allow DoD to request information or decline interest. (5) DoD damage assessment activities. If DoD elects to conduct a damage assessment, the Contracting Officer will request that the Contractor point of contact identified in the incident report at (d)(1) of this clause provide all of the damage assessment information gathered in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this clause. The Contractor shall comply with damage assessment information requests. The requirement to share files and images exists unless there are legal restrictions that limit a company's ability to share digital media. The Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer of the source, nature, and prescription of such limitations and the authority responsible.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 77 of 115 (e) Protection of reported information. Except to the extent that such information is lawfully publicly available without restrictions, the Government will protect information reported or otherwise provided to DoD under this clause in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies. The Contractor shall identify and mark attribution information reported or otherwise provided to the DoD. The Government may use information, including attribution information and disclose it only to authorized persons for purposes and activities consistent with this clause. (f) Nothing in this clause limits the Government's ability to conduct law enforcement or counterintelligence activities, or other lawful activities in the interest of homeland security and national security. The results of the activities described in this clause may be used to support an investigation and prosecution of any person or entity, including those attempting to infiltrate or compromise information on a contractor information system in violation of any statute. (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (g), in all subcontracts, including subcontracts for commercial items. (End of clause)

252.209-7004 SUBCONTRACTING WITH FIRMS THAT ARE OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF A TERRORIST COUNTRY (DEC 2006) (a) Unless the Government determines that there is a compelling reason to do so, the Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract in excess of $30,000 with a firm, or a subsidiary of a firm, that is identified in the Excluded Parties List System as being ineligible for the award of Defense contracts or subcontracts because it is owned or controlled by the government of a terrorist country. (b) A corporate officer or a designee of the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, before entering into a subcontract with a party that is identified, on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs, as being ineligible for the award of Defense contracts or subcontracts because it is owned or controlled by the government of a terrorist country. The notice must include the name of the proposed subcontractor notwithstanding its inclusion on the List of Parties Excluded From Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs. (End of clause)

252.225-7048 EXPORT-CONTROLLED ITEMS (JUNE 2013) (a) Definition. ``Export-controlled items,'' as used in this clause, means items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR Parts 730-774) or the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR Parts 120-130). The term includes-(1) ``Defense items,'' defined in the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2778(j)(4)(A), as defense articles, defense services, and related technical data, and further defined in the ITAR, 22 CFR Part 120; and (2) ``Items,'' defined in the EAR as ``commodities'', ``software'', and ``technology,'' terms that are also defined in the EAR, 15 CFR 772.1. (b) The Contractor shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding export-controlled items, including, but not limited to, the requirement for contractors to register with the Department of State in accordance

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 78 of 115 with the ITAR. The Contractor shall consult with the Department of State regarding any questions relating to compliance with the ITAR and shall consult with the Department of Commerce regarding any questions relating to compliance with the EAR. (c) The Contractor's responsibility to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding export-controlled items exists independent of, and is not established or limited by, the information provided by this clause. (d) Nothing in the terms of this contract adds, changes, supersedes, or waives any of the requirements of applicable Federal laws, Executive orders, and regulations, including but not limited to-- (1) The Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401, et seq.); (2) The Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751, et seq.); (3) The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701, et seq.); (4) The Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR Parts 730-774); (5) The International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR Parts 120-130); and (6) Executive Order 13222, as extended. (e) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts. (End of clause)

252.232-7003 (JUNE 2012)

ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS AND RECEIVING REPORTS

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause (1) Contract financing payment and invoice payment have the meanings given in section 32.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (2) Electronic form means any automated system that transmits information electronically from the initiating system to all affected systems. Facsimile, e-mail, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms for submission of payment requests. However, scanned documents are acceptable when they are part of a submission of a payment request made using Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF) or another electronic form authorized by the Contracting Officer. (3) Payment request means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the Contractor under this contract. (4) Receiving report means the data required by the clause at 252.246-7000, Material Inspection and Receiving Report. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests and receiving reports using WAWF, in one of the following electronic formats that WAWF accepts: Electronic Data Interchange, Secure File Transfer Protocol, or World Wide Web input. Information regarding WAWF is available on the Internet at https://wawf.eb.mil/. (c) The Contractor may submit a payment request and receiving report using other than WAWF only when

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 79 of 115

(1) The Contracting Officer administering the contract for payment has determined, in writing, that electronic submission would be unduly burdensome to the Contractor. In such cases, the Contractor shall include a copy of the Contracting Officer's determination with each request for payment; (2) DoD makes payment for commercial transportation services provided under a Government rate tender or a contract for transportation services using a DoD-approved electronic third party payment system or other exempted vendor payment/invoicing system (e.g., PowerTrack, Transportation Financial Management System, and Cargo and Billing System); (3) DoD makes payment for rendered health care services using the TRICARE Encounter Data System (TEDS) as the electronic format; or (4) When the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is used as the method of payment, only submission of the receiving report in electronic form is required. (d) The Contractor shall submit any non-electronic payment requests using the method or methods specified in Section G of the contract. (e) In addition to the requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall meet the requirements of the appropriate payment clauses in this contract when submitting payments requests. (End of clause)

252.232-7010

LEVIES ON CONTRACT PAYMENTS (DEC 2006)

(a) 26 U.S.C. 6331(h) authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to continuously levy up to 100 percent of contract payments, up to the amount of tax debt. (b) When a levy is imposed on a payment under this contract and the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Procuring Contracting Officer in writing, with a copy to the Administrative Contracting Officer, and shall provide-(1) The total dollar amount of the levy; (2) A statement that the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation; and (3) Advice as to whether the inability to perform may adversely affect national security, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation. (c) DoD shall promptly review the Contractor's assessment, and the Procuring Contracting Officer shall provide a written notification to the Contractor including-(1) A statement as to whether DoD agrees that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract; and (2)(i) If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract and the lack of performance will adversely affect national security, the total amount of the monies collected that should be returned to the Contractor; or (ii) If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract but will not impact national security, a recommendation that the Contractor promptly notify the IRS to attempt to resolve the tax situation.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 80 of 115

(d) Any DoD determination under this clause is not subject to appeal under the Contract Disputes Act. (End of clause)

252.243-7001

PRICING OF CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS (DEC 1991)

When costs are a factor in any price adjustment under this contract, the contract cost principles and procedures in FAR part 31 and DFARS part 231, in effect on the date of this contract, apply.

MVP-001 DATA DELIVERABLES

Two copies of all data will be delivered on appropriate media (i.e. CDROM, DVD, Portable hard drive etc.).

 
All deliverables will be sent to: US Army Corps of Engineers ATTN: Chief, Civil - Site Section (EC-D-CS) 180 Fifth Street East, Suite 700 St. Paul, MN 55101
 

   

General Deliverables: General Deliverables include but are not limited to: Design Reports, Plans and Specifications, O&M manuals, environmental reports, photographs, cultural survey/information, Microfilm/Microfiche, scanned legacy documents, monitoring reports, compliance reports, etc...

 
All geospatial deliverables (defined below) must include Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) compliant metadata.

 
Standard Geospatial Deliverables: Geospatial data include GIS drawings/maps, hydrographic surveys, topographic mapping, georeferenced digital drawings generated from hard copy maps/drawings, high-order geodetic control (horizontal and vertical) surveys using a differential Global Positioning System (GPS) and conventional survey techniques for control and property/boundary surveys, controlled and non-controlled aerial photography (film, photos, and digital output), photogrammetric mapping including aero-triangulation, digital- orthophotography image file and map production, remote sensing, radar and satellite imagery and/or aerial imagery products.

 
CADD-Related Geospatial Deliverables: Projects involving engineering CADD drawings may be composed of multiple files each

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 81 of 115

containing a specific data theme or covering a specified geographic area of the same theme. Because metadata for each of these individual files would contain significant repetitive information, it is appropriate to document groups of files that form a well defined dataset with a single metadata file. Pursuant to this fact, it is mandatory that all CADD-related data deliverables have at least one collection metadata file describing the project and individual data layers generated within the project.

 
The St. Paul District will provide metadata software, documentation, and samples on request. Submit metadata in an .xml, .gen or .met file format as an email attachment to:
mvpgismetadata@usace.army.mil
WAGE DETERMINATION 05-2771

WD 05-2271 (Rev.-13) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 06/25/2013 ************************************************************************************ REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER | U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT | EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION By direction of the Secretary of Labor | WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION | WASHINGTON D.C. 20210 | | | | Wage Determination No.: 2005-2271 Diane C. Koplewski Division of | Revision No.: 13 Director Wage Determinations| Date Of Revision: 06/19/2013 _______________________________________|____________________________________________ State: Michigan Area: Michigan Counties of Alcona, Alpena, Antrim, Arenac, Benzie, Charlevoix, Cheboygan, Crawford, Emmet, Grand Traverse, Iosco, Kalkaska, Leelanau, Manistee, Missaukee, Montmorency, Ogemaw, Oscoda, Otsego, Presque Isle, Roscommon, Wexford ____________________________________________________________________________________ **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing** OCCUPATION CODE - TITLE FOOTNOTE RATE 01000 - Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations 01011 - Accounting Clerk I 14.36 01012 - Accounting Clerk II 16.12 01013 - Accounting Clerk III 18.03 01020 - Administrative Assistant 18.45 01040 - Court Reporter 16.99 01051 - Data Entry Operator I 12.21 01052 - Data Entry Operator II 13.61 01060 - Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle 15.61 01070 - Document Preparation Clerk 12.72 01090 - Duplicating Machine Operator 12.72 01111 - General Clerk I 11.12 01112 - General Clerk II 12.12 01113 - General Clerk III 14.69

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 82 of 115

01120 - Housing Referral Assistant 18.95 01141 - Messenger Courier 11.63 01191 - Order Clerk I 14.47 01192 - Order Clerk II 15.80 01261 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) I 16.72 01262 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) II 18.70 01263 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) III 20.86 01270 - Production Control Clerk 22.01 01280 - Receptionist 11.64 01290 - Rental Clerk 13.70 01300 - Scheduler, Maintenance 15.19 01311 - Secretary I 15.19 01312 - Secretary II 16.99 01313 - Secretary III 18.95 01320 - Service Order Dispatcher 13.70 01410 - Supply Technician 20.12 01420 - Survey Worker 14.46 01531 - Travel Clerk I 12.78 01532 - Travel Clerk II 13.89 01533 - Travel Clerk III 15.03 01611 - Word Processor I 13.15 01612 - Word Processor II 14.77 01613 - Word Processor III 16.51 05000 - Automotive Service Occupations 05005 - Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass 20.01 05010 - Automotive Electrician 15.41 05040 - Automotive Glass Installer 14.85 05070 - Automotive Worker 14.85 05110 - Mobile Equipment Servicer 13.71 05130 - Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic 15.95 05160 - Motor Equipment Metal Worker 14.85 05190 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic 18.92 05220 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper 13.07 05250 - Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker 14.33 05280 - Motor Vehicle Wrecker 14.85 05310 - Painter, Automotive 15.41 05340 - Radiator Repair Specialist 14.85 05370 - Tire Repairer 12.62 05400 - Transmission Repair Specialist 15.95 07000 - Food Preparation And Service Occupations 07010 - Baker 11.08 07041 - Cook I 11.36 07042 - Cook II 12.01 07070 - Dishwasher 8.39 07130 - Food Service Worker 9.03 07210 - Meat Cutter 14.58 07260 - Waiter/Waitress 8.87 09000 - Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations 09010 - Electrostatic Spray Painter 17.71 09040 - Furniture Handler 13.62

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 83 of 115

09080 - Furniture Refinisher 09090 - Furniture Refinisher Helper 09110 - Furniture Repairer, Minor 09130 - Upholsterer 11000 - General Services And Support Occupations 11030 - Cleaner, Vehicles 11060 - Elevator Operator 11090 - Gardener 11122 - Housekeeping Aide 11150 - Janitor 11210 - Laborer, Grounds Maintenance 11240 - Maid or Houseman 11260 - Pruner 11270 - Tractor Operator 11330 - Trail Maintenance Worker 11360 - Window Cleaner 12000 - Health Occupations 12010 - Ambulance Driver 12011 - Breath Alcohol Technician 12012 - Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant 12015 - Certified Physical Therapist Assistant 12020 - Dental Assistant 12025 - Dental Hygienist 12030 - EKG Technician 12035 - Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist 12040 - Emergency Medical Technician 12071 - Licensed Practical Nurse I 12072 - Licensed Practical Nurse II 12073 - Licensed Practical Nurse III 12100 - Medical Assistant 12130 - Medical Laboratory Technician 12160 - Medical Record Clerk 12190 - Medical Record Technician 12195 - Medical Transcriptionist 12210 - Nuclear Medicine Technologist 12221 - Nursing Assistant I 12222 - Nursing Assistant II 12223 - Nursing Assistant III 12224 - Nursing Assistant IV 12235 - Optical Dispenser 12236 - Optical Technician 12250 - Pharmacy Technician 12280 - Phlebotomist 12305 - Radiologic Technologist 12311 - Registered Nurse I 12312 - Registered Nurse II 12313 - Registered Nurse II, Specialist 12314 - Registered Nurse III 12315 - Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist 12316 - Registered Nurse IV

17.77 15.07 16.52 17.71 10.81 10.81 14.64 10.15 11.90 13.01 9.01 12.00 14.61 13.01 12.36 17.64 17.64 18.70 19.44 16.19 26.13 24.53 24.53 17.64 15.92 17.80 19.87 11.93 17.49 15.63 17.48 13.71 34.28 11.43 12.85 14.02 15.74 17.04 15.22 14.11 15.74 22.95 23.13 29.25 29.25 34.84 34.84 41.76

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 84 of 115

12317 - Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing) 22.06 13000 - Information And Arts Occupations 13011 - Exhibits Specialist I 19.64 13012 - Exhibits Specialist II 22.75 13013 - Exhibits Specialist III 27.67 13041 - Illustrator I 19.64 13042 - Illustrator II 22.75 13043 - Illustrator III 27.67 13047 - Librarian 25.04 13050 - Library Aide/Clerk 12.12 13054 - Library Information Technology Systems 22.62 Administrator 13058 - Library Technician 15.72 13061 - Media Specialist I 16.32 13062 - Media Specialist II 18.25 13063 - Media Specialist III 20.36 13071 - Photographer I 16.92 13072 - Photographer II 18.93 13073 - Photographer III 23.45 13074 - Photographer IV 28.69 13075 - Photographer V 32.49 13110 - Video Teleconference Technician 16.32 14000 - Information Technology Occupations 14041 - Computer Operator I 14.20 14042 - Computer Operator II 15.89 14043 - Computer Operator III 17.72 14044 - Computer Operator IV 19.69 14045 - Computer Operator V 21.80 14071 - Computer Programmer I (see 1) 20.41 14072 - Computer Programmer II (see 1) 25.30 14073 - Computer Programmer III (see 1) 14074 - Computer Programmer IV (see 1) 14101 - Computer Systems Analyst I (see 1) 24.52 14102 - Computer Systems Analyst II (see 1) 27.62 14103 - Computer Systems Analyst III (see 1) 14150 - Peripheral Equipment Operator 14.20 14160 - Personal Computer Support Technician 19.69 15000 - Instructional Occupations 15010 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Non-Rated) 24.50 15020 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated) 29.66 15030 - Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot) 34.69 15050 - Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor 24.50 15060 - Educational Technologist 26.06 15070 - Flight Instructor (Pilot) 34.69 15080 - Graphic Artist 18.59 15090 - Technical Instructor 20.15 15095 - Technical Instructor/Course Developer 23.97 15110 - Test Proctor 15.81 15120 - Tutor 15.81 16000 - Laundry, Dry-Cleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 85 of 115

16010 - Assembler 9.87 16030 - Counter Attendant 9.87 16040 - Dry Cleaner 13.34 16070 - Finisher, Flatwork, Machine 9.87 16090 - Presser, Hand 9.87 16110 - Presser, Machine, Drycleaning 9.87 16130 - Presser, Machine, Shirts 9.87 16160 - Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry 9.87 16190 - Sewing Machine Operator 14.52 16220 - Tailor 15.65 16250 - Washer, Machine 11.01 19000 - Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations 19010 - Machine-Tool Operator (Tool Room) 22.11 19040 - Tool And Die Maker 25.86 21000 - Materials Handling And Packing Occupations 21020 - Forklift Operator 20.74 21030 - Material Coordinator 22.01 21040 - Material Expediter 22.01 21050 - Material Handling Laborer 14.43 21071 - Order Filler 11.50 21080 - Production Line Worker (Food Processing) 20.74 21110 - Shipping Packer 19.25 21130 - Shipping/Receiving Clerk 19.25 21140 - Store Worker I 14.39 21150 - Stock Clerk 17.43 21210 - Tools And Parts Attendant 20.74 21410 - Warehouse Specialist 20.74 23000 - Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations 23010 - Aerospace Structural Welder 23.97 23021 - Aircraft Mechanic I 23.04 23022 - Aircraft Mechanic II 23.97 23023 - Aircraft Mechanic III 24.93 23040 - Aircraft Mechanic Helper 18.62 23050 - Aircraft, Painter 23.59 23060 - Aircraft Servicer 20.42 23080 - Aircraft Worker 21.14 23110 - Appliance Mechanic 17.86 23120 - Bicycle Repairer 12.62 23125 - Cable Splicer 23.56 23130 - Carpenter, Maintenance 22.99 23140 - Carpet Layer 20.01 23160 - Electrician, Maintenance 29.53 23181 - Electronics Technician Maintenance I 21.16 23182 - Electronics Technician Maintenance II 22.10 23183 - Electronics Technician Maintenance III 23.04 23260 - Fabric Worker 20.15 23290 - Fire Alarm System Mechanic 21.79 23310 - Fire Extinguisher Repairer 19.16 23311 - Fuel Distribution System Mechanic 25.02 23312 - Fuel Distribution System Operator 20.81

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 86 of 115

23370 - General Maintenance Worker 17.93 23380 - Ground Support Equipment Mechanic 23.04 23381 - Ground Support Equipment Servicer 20.42 23382 - Ground Support Equipment Worker 21.14 23391 - Gunsmith I 19.16 23392 - Gunsmith II 21.16 23393 - Gunsmith III 23.04 23410 - Heating, Ventilation And Air-Conditioning 21.50 Mechanic 23411 - Heating, Ventilation And Air Contditioning 22.22 Mechanic (Research Facility) 23430 - Heavy Equipment Mechanic 22.78 23440 - Heavy Equipment Operator 21.06 23460 - Instrument Mechanic 23.04 23465 - Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic 22.10 23470 - Laborer 15.09 23510 - Locksmith 20.90 23530 - Machinery Maintenance Mechanic 23.04 23550 - Machinist, Maintenance 23.04 23580 - Maintenance Trades Helper 14.34 23591 - Metrology Technician I 23.04 23592 - Metrology Technician II 23.97 23593 - Metrology Technician III 24.93 23640 - Millwright 30.95 23710 - Office Appliance Repairer 19.00 23760 - Painter, Maintenance 19.95 23790 - Pipefitter, Maintenance 26.28 23810 - Plumber, Maintenance 24.44 23820 - Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic 23.04 23850 - Rigger 23.04 23870 - Scale Mechanic 21.16 23890 - Sheet-Metal Worker, Maintenance 24.41 23910 - Small Engine Mechanic 21.16 23931 - Telecommunications Mechanic I 23.04 23932 - Telecommunications Mechanic II 23.97 23950 - Telephone Lineman 22.72 23960 - Welder, Combination, Maintenance 22.10 23965 - Well Driller 23.04 23970 - Woodcraft Worker 23.04 23980 - Woodworker 19.16 24000 - Personal Needs Occupations 24570 - Child Care Attendant 9.66 24580 - Child Care Center Clerk 12.05 24610 - Chore Aide 10.48 24620 - Family Readiness And Support Services 13.41 Coordinator 24630 - Homemaker 13.39 25000 - Plant And System Operations Occupations 25010 - Boiler Tender 24.76 25040 - Sewage Plant Operator 18.57

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 87 of 115

25070 - Stationary Engineer 24.76 25190 - Ventilation Equipment Tender 18.19 25210 - Water Treatment Plant Operator 17.86 27000 - Protective Service Occupations 27004 - Alarm Monitor 18.23 27007 - Baggage Inspector 12.24 27008 - Corrections Officer 20.44 27010 - Court Security Officer 20.76 27030 - Detection Dog Handler 16.73 27040 - Detention Officer 20.44 27070 - Firefighter 18.68 27101 - Guard I 12.24 27102 - Guard II 16.73 27131 - Police Officer I 23.25 27132 - Police Officer II 25.85 28000 - Recreation Occupations 28041 - Carnival Equipment Operator 10.86 28042 - Carnival Equipment Repairer 11.32 28043 - Carnival Equpment Worker 9.24 28210 - Gate Attendant/Gate Tender 15.40 28310 - Lifeguard 11.56 28350 - Park Attendant (Aide) 17.23 28510 - Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant 13.43 28515 - Recreation Specialist 17.67 28630 - Sports Official 13.72 28690 - Swimming Pool Operator 17.16 29000 - Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services 29010 - Blocker And Bracer 22.91 29020 - Hatch Tender 22.91 29030 - Line Handler 22.91 29041 - Stevedore I 21.88 29042 - Stevedore II 23.94 30000 - Technical Occupations 30010 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO) (see 2) 35.77 30011 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO) (see 2) 24.66 30012 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2) 27.16 30021 - Archeological Technician I 12.62 30022 - Archeological Technician II 13.27 30023 - Archeological Technician III 17.90 30030 - Cartographic Technician 23.91 30040 - Civil Engineering Technician 22.19 30061 - Drafter/CAD Operator I 17.25 30062 - Drafter/CAD Operator II 19.29 30063 - Drafter/CAD Operator III 21.51 30064 - Drafter/CAD Operator IV 26.47 30081 - Engineering Technician I 16.17 30082 - Engineering Technician II 18.13 30083 - Engineering Technician III 20.28 30084 - Engineering Technician IV 25.14 30085 - Engineering Technician V 30.72

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 88 of 115

30086 - Engineering Technician VI 32.98 30090 - Environmental Technician 23.91 30210 - Laboratory Technician 21.97 30240 - Mathematical Technician 23.91 30361 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant I 18.52 30362 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant II 22.93 30363 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant III 28.06 30364 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV 33.95 30390 - Photo-Optics Technician 23.91 30461 - Technical Writer I 23.07 30462 - Technical Writer II 28.20 30463 - Technical Writer III 30.94 30491 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I 22.74 30492 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II 27.51 30493 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III 32.97 30494 - Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort 22.74 30495 - Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel 22.74 30620 - Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or (see 3) 21.51 Surface Programs 30621 - Weather Observer, Senior (see 3) 23.42 31000 - Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations 31020 - Bus Aide 12.30 31030 - Bus Driver 15.41 31043 - Driver Courier 14.35 31260 - Parking and Lot Attendant 11.54 31290 - Shuttle Bus Driver 15.35 31310 - Taxi Driver 12.05 31361 - Truckdriver, Light 14.66 31362 - Truckdriver, Medium 15.05 31363 - Truckdriver, Heavy 19.39 31364 - Truckdriver, Tractor-Trailer 19.39 99000 - Miscellaneous Occupations 99030 - Cashier 9.13 99050 - Desk Clerk 9.66 99095 - Embalmer 25.36 99251 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker I 12.10 99252 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker II 12.75 99310 - Mortician 27.17 99410 - Pest Controller 18.04 99510 - Photofinishing Worker 12.86 99710 - Recycling Laborer 17.08 99711 - Recycling Specialist 18.51 99730 - Refuse Collector 15.36 99810 - Sales Clerk 10.46 99820 - School Crossing Guard 10.42 99830 - Survey Party Chief 19.26 99831 - Surveying Aide 11.45 99832 - Surveying Technician 17.13 99840 - Vending Machine Attendant 14.58 99841 - Vending Machine Repairer 17.93

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 89 of 115

99842 - Vending Machine Repairer Helper 16.08 ____________________________________________________________________________________ ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS: HEALTH & WELFARE: $3.81 per hour or $152.40 per week or $660.40 per month VACATION: 2 weeks paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or successor; 3 weeks after 8 years, 4 weeks after 15 years, and 5 weeks after 25 years. Length of service includes the whole span of continuous service with the present contractor or successor, wherever employed, and with the predecessor contractors in the performance of similar work at the same Federal facility. (Reg. 29 CFR 4.173) HOLIDAYS: A minimum of eleven paid holidays per year: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. A contractor may substitute for any of the named holidays another day off with pay in accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved.) (See 29 CFR 4.174) THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING: 1) COMPUTER EMPLOYEES: Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does not apply to any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541. Because most Computer System Analysts and Computer Programmers who are compensated at a rate not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $455 per week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R. 541. 400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations within those job families. In addition, because this wage determination may not list a wage rate for some or all occupations within those job families if the survey data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the occupation equals or exceeds $27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt employees. For example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer occupations for which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate, then the wage rate for that employee must be conformed in accordance with the conformance procedures described in the conformance note included on this wage determination. Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer industry, job titles are not determinative of the application of the computer professional exemption. Therefore, the exemption applies only to computer employees who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary duty consists of: (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional specifications; (2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and related to user or system design specifications; (3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer programs related to machine operating systems; or (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which requires the same level of skills. (29 C.F.R. 541.400). 2) APPLICABLE TO AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS ONLY - NIGHT DIFFERENTIAL: An employee is entitled to pay for all work performed between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. at the rate of basic pay plus a night pay differential amounting to 10 percent of the rate of basic pay.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 90 of 115

3) AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS - NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY: If you work at night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential and receive an additional 10% of basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am. If you are a full-time employed (40 hours a week) and Sunday is part of your regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay plus a Sunday premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime (i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered overtime work). HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or in close proximity to ordinance, explosives, and incendiary materials. This includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and pressing of sensitive ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black powder and photoflash powder. All dry-house activities involving propellants or explosives. Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations on sensitive ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials. All operations involving regrading and cleaning of artillery ranges. A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that represents a low degree of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to) explosives and incendiary materials which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or arms of the employee engaged in the operation, irritation of the skin, minor burns and the like; minimal damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used. All operations involving, unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and incendiary ordnance material other than small arms ammunition. These differentials are only applicable to work that has been specifically designated by the agency for ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay. ** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE ** If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract (either by the terms of the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such uniforms and maintaining (by laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be borne by an employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage determination. The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the following standards as compliance: The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an adequate number of uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual cost of the uniforms. In addition, where uniform cleaning and maintenance is made the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and subcontractors subject to this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective bargaining agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary affirmative proof as to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per week (or $.67 cents per day). However, in those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of "wash and wear" materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial laundering in order to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms of the Government contract, by the contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work, there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed for uniform maintenance costs. The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the "Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006, unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 91 of 115

available on the Internet. A links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at http://www.dol.gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations On-Line (WDOL) Web site at http://wdol.gov/. REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form 1444 (SF 1444)} Conformance Process: The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a reasonable relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination. Such conformed classes of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the fringe benefits as are determined. Such conforming process shall be initiated by the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es) of employees. The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall be retroactive to the commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)} When multiple wage determinations are included in a contract, a separate SF 1444 should be prepared for each wage determination to which a class(es) is to be conformed.

The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows: 1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed occupation(s) and computes a proposed rate(s). 2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order proposed classification title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each proposed classification(s), job description(s), and rationale for proposed wage rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized representative, the employees themselves. This report should be submitted to the contracting officer no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees performs any contract work. 3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report of the action, together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent information including the position of the contractor and the employees, to the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, for review. (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4). 4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or disapproves the action via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or notifies the contracting officer that additional time will be required to process the request. 5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor. 6) The contractor informs the affected employees. Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 92 of 115

When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations" (the Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure that duties requested are not performed by a classification already listed in the wage determination. Remember, it is not the job title, but the required tasks that determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination. Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide classifications listed in the wage determination.

WAGE DETERMINATION 05-2287

WD 052287 (Rev.13) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 06/25/2013  ************************************************************************************  REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER  |        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR         THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT        |  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION  By direction of the Secretary of Labor |         WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION                                         |         WASHINGTON D.C.  20210                                         |                                         |                                         | Wage Determination No.: 20052287  Diane C. Koplewski       Division of   |           Revision No.: 13  Director            Wage Determinations|       Date Of Revision: 06/19/2013  _______________________________________|____________________________________________  States: Minnesota, Wisconsin    Area: Minnesota Counties of Anoka, Carver, Chisago, Dakota, Hennepin, Isanti,  Ramsey, Scott, Washington, Wright  Wisconsin Counties of Pierce, Polk, St Croix  ____________________________________________________________________________________            **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing**  OCCUPATION CODE  TITLE                                  FOOTNOTE               RATE  01000  Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations    01011  Accounting Clerk I                                                   15.12    01012  Accounting Clerk II                                                  16.97    01013  Accounting Clerk III                                                 18.99    01020  Administrative Assistant                                             22.97    01040  Court Reporter                                                       19.17    01051  Data Entry Operator I                                                13.68    01052  Data Entry Operator II                                               14.93    01060  Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle                                            21.93    01070  Document Preparation Clerk                                           15.07    01090  Duplicating Machine Operator                                         15.07    01111  General Clerk I                                                      14.03    01112  General Clerk II                                                     15.31    01113  General Clerk III                                                    18.25    01120  Housing Referral Assistant                                           22.38    01141  Messenger Courier                                                    13.62    01191  Order Clerk I                                                        16.23 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 93 of 115

  01192  Order Clerk II                                                       17.72    01261  Personnel Assistant (Employment) I                                   17.75    01262  Personnel Assistant (Employment) II                                  19.86    01263  Personnel Assistant (Employment) III                                 22.13    01270  Production Control Clerk                                             22.34    01280  Receptionist                                                         15.24    01290  Rental Clerk                                                         16.80    01300  Scheduler, Maintenance                                               17.95    01311  Secretary I                                                          17.95    01312  Secretary II                                                         20.09    01313  Secretary III                                                        22.38    01320  Service Order Dispatcher                                             20.00    01410  Supply Technician                                                    22.97    01420  Survey Worker                                                        19.17    01531  Travel Clerk I                                                       14.01    01532  Travel Clerk II                                                      15.12    01533  Travel Clerk III                                                     16.22    01611  Word Processor I                                                     15.01    01612  Word Processor II                                                    16.85    01613  Word Processor III                                                   18.85  05000  Automotive Service Occupations    05005  Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass                                 23.66    05010  Automotive  Electrician                                              20.79    05040  Automotive Glass Installer                                           19.11    05070  Automotive Worker                                                    19.93    05110  Mobile Equipment Servicer                                            17.51    05130  Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic                                       21.60    05160  Motor Equipment Metal Worker                                         19.93    05190  Motor Vehicle Mechanic                                               21.70    05220  Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper                                        16.72    05250  Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker                                      18.51    05280  Motor Vehicle Wrecker                                                19.93    05310  Painter, Automotive                                                  19.94    05340  Radiator Repair Specialist                                           19.73    05370  Tire Repairer                                                        16.12    05400  Transmission Repair Specialist                                       21.60  07000  Food Preparation And Service Occupations    07010  Baker                                                                13.80    07041  Cook I                                                               13.58    07042  Cook II                                                              14.78    07070  Dishwasher                                                           10.58    07130  Food Service Worker                                                  10.92    07210  Meat Cutter                                                          20.01    07260  Waiter/Waitress                                                      11.59  09000  Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations    09010  Electrostatic Spray Painter                                          19.90    09040  Furniture Handler                                                    16.13 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 94 of 115

  09080  Furniture Refinisher                                                 19.90    09090  Furniture Refinisher Helper                                          18.07    09110  Furniture Repairer, Minor                                            19.60    09130  Upholsterer                                                          19.90  11000  General Services And Support Occupations    11030  Cleaner, Vehicles                                                    11.56    11060  Elevator Operator                                                    15.31    11090  Gardener                                                             20.25    11122  Housekeeping Aide                                                    15.31    11150  Janitor                                                              15.31    11210  Laborer, Grounds Maintenance                                         16.54    11240  Maid or Houseman                                                     11.37    11260  Pruner                                                               16.00    11270  Tractor Operator                                                     18.46    11330  Trail Maintenance Worker                                             16.54    11360  Window Cleaner                                                       16.67  12000  Health Occupations    12010  Ambulance Driver                                                     18.62    12011  Breath Alcohol Technician                                            19.34    12012  Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant                           19.52    12015  Certified Physical Therapist Assistant                               21.11    12020  Dental Assistant                                                     19.97    12025  Dental Hygienist                                                     33.77    12030  EKG Technician                                                       27.56    12035  Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist                                  27.56    12040  Emergency Medical Technician                                         18.62    12071  Licensed Practical Nurse I                                           17.28    12072  Licensed Practical Nurse II                                          19.34    12073  Licensed Practical Nurse III                                         21.55    12100  Medical Assistant                                                    16.35    12130  Medical Laboratory Technician                                        19.22    12160  Medical Record Clerk                                                 16.01    12190  Medical Record Technician                                            17.91    12195  Medical Transcriptionist                                             17.67    12210  Nuclear Medicine Technologist                                        34.10    12221  Nursing Assistant I                                                  11.37    12222  Nursing Assistant II                                                 12.78    12223  Nursing Assistant III                                                13.95    12224  Nursing Assistant IV                                                 15.79    12235  Optical Dispenser                                                    18.70    12236  Optical Technician                                                   16.04    12250  Pharmacy Technician                                                  15.53    12280  Phlebotomist                                                         15.79    12305  Radiologic Technologist                                              27.30    12311  Registered Nurse I                                                   29.71    12312  Registered Nurse II                                                  36.35    12313  Registered Nurse II, Specialist                                      36.35 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 95 of 115

  12314  Registered Nurse III                                                 43.98    12315  Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist                                    43.98    12316  Registered Nurse IV                                                  52.71    12317  Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing)                                 23.34  13000  Information And Arts Occupations    13011  Exhibits Specialist I                                                20.47    13012  Exhibits Specialist II                                               26.14    13013  Exhibits Specialist III                                              30.90    13041  Illustrator I                                                        21.81    13042  Illustrator II                                                       27.01    13043  Illustrator III                                                      33.05    13047  Librarian                                                            33.12    13050  Library Aide/Clerk                                                   13.54    13054  Library Information Technology Systems                               25.74    Administrator    13058  Library Technician                                                   18.54    13061  Media Specialist I                                                   18.14    13062  Media Specialist II                                                  19.95    13063  Media Specialist III                                                 22.00    13071  Photographer I                                                       18.66    13072  Photographer II                                                      20.87    13073  Photographer III                                                     25.85    13074  Photographer IV                                                      31.63    13075  Photographer V                                                       36.15    13110  Video Teleconference Technician                                      19.84  14000  Information Technology Occupations    14041  Computer Operator I                                                  18.63    14042  Computer Operator II                                                 20.85    14043  Computer Operator III                                                23.23    14044  Computer Operator IV                                                 25.81    14045  Computer Operator V                                                  28.59    14071  Computer Programmer I                          (see 1)               26.47    14072  Computer Programmer II                         (see 1)    14073  Computer Programmer III                        (see 1)    14074  Computer Programmer IV                         (see 1)    14101  Computer Systems Analyst I                     (see 1)    14102  Computer Systems Analyst II                    (see 1)    14103  Computer Systems Analyst III                   (see 1)    14150  Peripheral Equipment Operator                                        18.63    14160  Personal Computer Support Technician                                 25.81  15000  Instructional Occupations    15010  Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (NonRated)                      34.82    15020  Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated)                          39.04    15030  Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot)                         42.83    15050  Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor                      34.82    15060  Educational Technologist                                             28.68    15070  Flight Instructor (Pilot)                                            42.83 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 96 of 115

  15080  Graphic Artist                                                       24.15    15090  Technical Instructor                                                 23.67    15095  Technical Instructor/Course Developer                                28.96    15110  Test Proctor                                                         19.57    15120  Tutor                                                                19.57  16000  Laundry, DryCleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations    16010  Assembler                                                            11.42    16030  Counter Attendant                                                    11.42    16040  Dry Cleaner                                                          14.39    16070  Finisher, Flatwork, Machine                                          11.42    16090  Presser, Hand                                                        11.42    16110  Presser, Machine, Drycleaning                                        11.42    16130  Presser, Machine, Shirts                                             11.42    16160  Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry                           11.42    16190  Sewing Machine Operator                                              15.22    16220  Tailor                                                               16.09    16250  Washer, Machine                                                      12.66  19000  Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations    19010  MachineTool Operator (Tool Room)                                    23.64    19040  Tool And Die Maker                                                   29.32  21000  Materials Handling And Packing Occupations    21020  Forklift Operator                                                    17.74    21030  Material Coordinator                                                 22.34    21040  Material Expediter                                                   22.34    21050  Material Handling Laborer                                            16.04    21071  Order Filler                                                         15.92    21080  Production Line Worker (Food Processing)                             17.74    21110  Shipping Packer                                                      18.04    21130  Shipping/Receiving Clerk                                             18.04    21140  Store Worker I                                                       14.40    21150  Stock Clerk                                                          18.61    21210  Tools And Parts Attendant                                            17.74    21410  Warehouse Specialist                                                 18.67  23000  Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations    23010  Aerospace Structural Welder                                          29.14    23021  Aircraft Mechanic I                                                  27.99    23022  Aircraft Mechanic II                                                 29.14    23023  Aircraft Mechanic III                                                30.35    23040  Aircraft Mechanic Helper                                             21.64    23050  Aircraft, Painter                                                    26.79    23060  Aircraft Servicer                                                    24.57    23080  Aircraft Worker                                                      25.65    23110  Appliance Mechanic                                                   23.16    23120  Bicycle Repairer                                                     17.12    23125  Cable Splicer                                                        31.75    23130  Carpenter, Maintenance                                               24.26    23140  Carpet Layer                                                         26.15 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 97 of 115

  23160  Electrician, Maintenance                                             29.96    23181  Electronics Technician Maintenance I                                 23.74    23182  Electronics Technician Maintenance II                                26.06    23183  Electronics Technician Maintenance III                               29.52    23260  Fabric Worker                                                        22.65    23290  Fire Alarm System Mechanic                                           24.43    23310  Fire Extinguisher Repairer                                           21.27    23311  Fuel Distribution System Mechanic                                    24.62    23312  Fuel Distribution System Operator                                    21.94    23370  General Maintenance Worker                                           21.45    23380  Ground Support Equipment Mechanic                                    27.99    23381  Ground Support Equipment Servicer                                    25.65    23382  Ground Support Equipment Worker                                      21.27    23391  Gunsmith I                                                           23.64    23392  Gunsmith II                                                          25.92    23393  Gunsmith III                                                         26.09    23410  Heating, Ventilation And AirConditioning  Mechanic 27.16    23411  Heating, Ventilation And Air Conditioning                           27.16    Mechanic (Research Facility)    23430  Heavy Equipment Mechanic                                             24.56    23440  Heavy Equipment Operator                                             28.74    23460  Instrument Mechanic                                                  23.53    23465  Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic                                          24.85    23470  Laborer                                                              13.69    23510  Locksmith                                                            22.19    23530  Machinery Maintenance Mechanic                                       24.68    23550  Machinist, Maintenance                                               21.98    23580  Maintenance Trades Helper                                            16.19    23591  Metrology Technician I                                               23.53    23592  Metrology Technician II                                              24.50    23593  Metrology Technician III                                             25.51    23640  Millwright                                                           26.97    23710  Office Appliance Repairer                                            21.42    23760  Painter, Maintenance                                                 21.49    23790  Pipefitter, Maintenance                                              32.15    23810  Plumber, Maintenance                                                 27.99    23820  Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic                                         25.92    23850  Rigger                                                               25.38    23870  Scale Mechanic                                                       23.64    23890  SheetMetal Worker, Maintenance                                      29.90    23910  Small Engine Mechanic                                                23.36    23931  Telecommunications Mechanic I                                        26.00    23932  Telecommunications Mechanic II                                       27.07    23950  Telephone Lineman                                                    24.43    23960  Welder, Combination, Maintenance                                     22.63    23965  Well Driller                                                         23.07    23970  Woodcraft Worker                                                     25.92 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 98 of 115

  23980  Woodworker                                                           21.01  24000  Personal Needs Occupations    24570  Child Care Attendant                                                 13.15    24580  Child Care Center Clerk                                              18.03    24610  Chore Aide                                                           11.26    24620  Family Readiness And Support Services    Coordinator     14.71    24630  Homemaker                                                            20.05  25000  Plant And System Operations Occupations    25010  Boiler Tender                                                        27.13    25040  Sewage Plant Operator                                                22.17    25070  Stationary Engineer                                                  27.13    25190  Ventilation Equipment Tender                                         20.79    25210  Water Treatment Plant Operator                                       22.17  27000  Protective Service Occupations    27004  Alarm Monitor                                                        22.00    27007  Baggage Inspector                                                    14.94    27008  Corrections Officer                                                  20.73    27010  Court Security Officer                                               21.99    27030  Detection Dog Handler                                                18.37    27040  Detention Officer                                                    20.73    27070  Firefighter                                                          20.84    27101  Guard I                                                              14.94    27102  Guard II                                                             18.37    27131  Police Officer I                                                     27.66    27132  Police Officer II                                                    30.73  28000  Recreation Occupations    28041  Carnival Equipment Operator                                          12.15    28042  Carnival Equipment Repairer                                          12.21    28043  Carnival Equpment Worker                                              9.93    28210  Gate Attendant/Gate Tender                                           13.43    28310  Lifeguard                                                            11.28    28350  Park Attendant (Aide)                                                15.03    28510  Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant                            10.59    28515  Recreation Specialist                                                16.18    28630  Sports Official                                                      11.97    28690  Swimming Pool Operator                                               19.47  29000  Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services    29010  Blocker And Bracer                                                   25.63    29020  Hatch Tender                                                         25.63    29030  Line Handler                                                         25.63    29041  Stevedore I                                                          24.75    29042  Stevedore II                                                         26.78  30000  Technical Occupations    30010  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO)   (see 2)               37.91    30011  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO)  (see 2)               26.13    30012  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2)               28.78    30021  Archeological Technician I                                           20.60 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 99 of 115

  30022  Archeological Technician II                                          23.05    30023  Archeological Technician III                                         28.54    30030  Cartographic Technician                                              29.12    30040  Civil Engineering Technician                                         25.55    30061  Drafter/CAD Operator I                                               20.60    30062  Drafter/CAD Operator II                                              23.05    30063  Drafter/CAD Operator III                                             25.69    30064  Drafter/CAD Operator IV                                              31.62    30081  Engineering Technician I                                             18.51    30082  Engineering Technician II                                            21.39    30083  Engineering Technician III                                           23.93    30084  Engineering Technician IV                                            29.64    30085  Engineering Technician V                                             31.93    30086  Engineering Technician VI                                            39.73    30090  Environmental Technician                                             22.39    30210  Laboratory Technician                                                20.75    30240  Mathematical Technician                                              23.33    30361  Paralegal/Legal Assistant I                                          20.05    30362  Paralegal/Legal Assistant II                                         24.83    30363  Paralegal/Legal Assistant III                                        30.38    30364  Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV                                         36.76    30390  PhotoOptics Technician                                              29.64    30461  Technical Writer I                                                   25.29    30462  Technical Writer II                                                  30.95    30463  Technical Writer III                                                 37.39    30491  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I                               24.09    30492  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II                              29.15    30493  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III                             34.93    30494  Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort                                       24.09    30495  Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel                                     24.09    30620  Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or        (see 2)               25.69    Surface Programs    30621  Weather Observer, Senior                       (see 2)               28.54  31000  Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations    31020  Bus Aide                                                             13.23    31030  Bus Driver                                                           17.55    31043  Driver Courier                                                       16.94    31260  Parking and Lot Attendant                                            10.53    31290  Shuttle Bus Driver                                                   18.14    31310  Taxi Driver                                                          12.19    31361  Truckdriver, Light                                                   18.14    31362  Truckdriver, Medium                                                  22.10    31363  Truckdriver, Heavy                                                   22.46    31364  Truckdriver, TractorTrailer                                         22.43  99000  Miscellaneous Occupations    99030  Cashier                                                              10.11    99050  Desk Clerk                                                           10.62 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 100 of 115

  99095  Embalmer                                                             30.75    99251  Laboratory Animal Caretaker I                                        11.41    99252  Laboratory Animal Caretaker II                                       12.22    99310  Mortician                                                            35.34    99410  Pest Controller                                                      19.77    99510  Photofinishing Worker                                                17.97    99710  Recycling Laborer                                                    20.39    99711  Recycling Specialist                                                 23.70    99730  Refuse Collector                                                     18.73    99810  Sales Clerk                                                          12.21    99820  School Crossing Guard                                                12.01    99830  Survey Party Chief                                                   29.97    99831  Surveying Aide                                                       19.91    99832  Surveying Technician                                                 22.89    99840  Vending Machine Attendant                                            16.99    99841  Vending Machine Repairer                                             19.47    99842  Vending Machine Repairer Helper                                      16.99  ____________________________________________________________________________________  ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS:    HEALTH & WELFARE: $3.81 per hour or $152.40 per week or $660.40 per month    VACATION: 2 weeks paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or  successor; 3 weeks after 5 years, and 4 weeks after 15 years.  Length of service  includes the whole span of continuous service with the present contractor or  successor, wherever employed, and with the predecessor contractors in the  performance of similar work at the same Federal facility.  (Reg. 29 CFR 4.173)    HOLIDAYS: A minimum of ten paid holidays per year, New Year's Day, Martin Luther  King Jr's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor  Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.  (A  contractor may substitute for any of the named holidays another day off with pay in  accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved.)  (See 29 CFR 4174)    THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING:    1)  COMPUTER EMPLOYEES:  Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does  not apply to any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive,  administrative, or professional employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541.  Because  most Computer System Analysts and Computer Programmers who are compensated at a rate  not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $455 per  week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R. 541.  400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations  within those job families.  In addition, because this wage determination may not  list a wage rate for some or all occupations within those job families if the survey  data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the occupation equals or exceeds  $27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt employees.  For 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 101 of 115

example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties  within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer  occupations for which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate,  then the wage rate for that employee must be conformed in accordance with the  conformance procedures described in the conformance note included on this wage  determination.    Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer  industry, job titles are not determinative of the application of the computer  professional exemption.  Therefore, the exemption applies only to computer employees  who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary duty consists of:      (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including  consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional  specifications;      (2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or  modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and  related to user or system design specifications;      (3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer  programs related to machine operating systems; or      (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which  requires the same level of skills.  (29 C.F.R. 541.400).    2)  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS  NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY:  If you  work at night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential  and receive an additional 10% of basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am.   If you are a fulltime employed (40 hours a week) and Sunday is part of your  regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay plus a Sunday  premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime  (i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered  overtime work).    HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees  employed in a position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or  in close proximity to ordinance, explosives, and incendiary materials.  This  includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and pressing of sensitive  ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black powder  and photoflash powder.  All dryhouse activities involving propellants or explosives.    Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations  on sensitive ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials.  All operations  involving regrading and cleaning of artillery ranges.    A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that  represents a low degree of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to  ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to) explosives and incendiary materials  which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or arms of the  employee engaged in the operation,  irritation of the skin, minor burns and the  like; minimal damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used. 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 102 of 115

All operations involving, unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and  incendiary ordnance material other than small arms ammunition.  These differentials  are only applicable to work that has been specifically designated by the agency for  ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay.    ** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE **    If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract  (either by the terms of the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or  local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such uniforms and maintaining (by  laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be borne by an  employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage  determination. The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the  following standards as compliance:    The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an  adequate number of uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual  cost of the uniforms.  In addition, where uniform cleaning and maintenance is made  the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and subcontractors subject to  this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective bargaining  agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary  affirmative proof as to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning  and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per week (or $.67 cents per day).  However, in  those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of "wash and wear"  materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do  not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial  laundering in order to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms  of the Government contract, by the contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work,  there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed for uniform maintenance costs.    The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the  "Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006,  unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are available on the Internet. A  links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at http://www.dol.  gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations OnLine (WDOL) Web site at  http://wdol.gov/.    REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form  1444 (SF 1444)}    Conformance Process:    The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is  not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to  be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage  determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a reasonable  relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 103 of 115

classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination.  Such  conformed classes of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the  fringe benefits as are determined.  Such conforming process shall be initiated by  the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es)  of employees.  The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall  be retroactive to the commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)}  When multiple wage determinations are included in a contract, a separate SF 1444  should be prepared for each wage determination to which a class(es) is to be  conformed.    The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows:    1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed  occupation(s) and computes a proposed rate(s).    2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order  proposed classification title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each  proposed classification(s), job description(s), and rationale for proposed wage  rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the  authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized  representative, the employees themselves.  This report should be submitted to the  contracting officer no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees  performs any contract work.    3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report  of the action, together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent  information including the position of the contractor and the employees, to the Wage  and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,  for review.  (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4).    4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or  disapproves the action via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or  notifies the contracting officer that additional time will be required to process  the request.    5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor.    6) The contractor informs the affected employees.    Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.    When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of  Occupations" (the Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure  that duties requested are not performed by a classification already listed in the  wage determination.  Remember, it is not the job title, but the required tasks that  determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination.  Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 104 of 115

classifications listed in the wage determination. 

WAGE DETERMINATION 05-2175

WD 052175 (Rev.14) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 06/25/2013  ************************************************************************************  REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER  |        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR         THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT        |  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION  By direction of the Secretary of Labor |         WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION                                         |         WASHINGTON D.C.  20210                                         |                                         |                                         | Wage Determination No.: 20052175  Diane C. Koplewski       Division of   |           Revision No.: 14  Director            Wage Determinations|       Date Of Revision: 06/19/2013  _______________________________________|____________________________________________  States: Illinois, Iowa    Area: Iowa Counties of Des Moines, Henry, Lee, Louisa, Muscatine, Scott Illinois Counties of Bureau,  Carroll, Henderson, Henry, Jo Daviess, Mercer, Rock Island, Warren, Whiteside  ____________________________________________________________________________________            **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing**  OCCUPATION CODE  TITLE                                  FOOTNOTE               RATE  01000  Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations    01011  Accounting Clerk I                                                   14.43    01012  Accounting Clerk II                                                  17.85    01013  Accounting Clerk III                                                 21.24    01020  Administrative Assistant                                             19.43    01040  Court Reporter                                                       19.13    01051  Data Entry Operator I                                                11.60    01052  Data Entry Operator II                                               16.71    01060  Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle                                            14.89    01070  Document Preparation Clerk                                           12.85    01090  Duplicating Machine Operator                                         12.85    01111  General Clerk I                                                      11.10    01112  General Clerk II                                                     12.11    01113  General Clerk III                                                    14.50    01120  Housing Referral Assistant                                           17.43    01141  Messenger Courier                                                    10.77    01191  Order Clerk I                                                        12.50    01192  Order Clerk II                                                       16.10    01261  Personnel Assistant (Employment) I                                   13.56    01262  Personnel Assistant (Employment) II                                  15.16    01263  Personnel Assistant (Employment) III                                 16.91    01270  Production Control Clerk                                             20.22    01280  Receptionist                                                         11.05    01290  Rental Clerk                                                         10.64 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 105 of 115

  01300  Scheduler, Maintenance                                               13.15    01311  Secretary I                                                          13.15    01312  Secretary II                                                         14.71    01313  Secretary III                                                        17.43    01320  Service Order Dispatcher                                             14.86    01410  Supply Technician                                                    19.43    01420  Survey Worker                                                        13.09    01531  Travel Clerk I                                                       12.64    01532  Travel Clerk II                                                      13.66    01533  Travel Clerk III                                                     14.78    01611  Word Processor I                                                     11.89    01612  Word Processor II                                                    13.67    01613  Word Processor III                                                   15.29  05000  Automotive Service Occupations    05005  Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass                                 18.83    05010  Automotive  Electrician                                              18.27    05040  Automotive Glass Installer                                           17.62    05070  Automotive Worker                                                    17.62    05110  Mobile Equipment Servicer                                            16.17    05130  Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic                                       18.91    05160  Motor Equipment Metal Worker                                         17.62    05190  Motor Vehicle Mechanic                                               18.83    05220  Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper                                        15.60    05250  Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker                                      16.98    05280  Motor Vehicle Wrecker                                                17.62    05310  Painter, Automotive                                                  17.90    05340  Radiator Repair Specialist                                           17.62    05370  Tire Repairer                                                        14.88    05400  Transmission Repair Specialist                                       18.48  07000  Food Preparation And Service Occupations    07010  Baker                                                                12.48    07041  Cook I                                                               11.67    07042  Cook II                                                              12.48    07070  Dishwasher                                                            9.99    07130  Food Service Worker                                                   9.99    07210  Meat Cutter                                                          15.36    07260  Waiter/Waitress                                                      10.43  09000  Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations    09010  Electrostatic Spray Painter                                          17.90    09040  Furniture Handler                                                    14.47    09080  Furniture Refinisher                                                 18.27    09090  Furniture Refinisher Helper                                          15.92    09110  Furniture Repairer, Minor                                            17.12    09130  Upholsterer                                                          18.27  11000  General Services And Support Occupations    11030  Cleaner, Vehicles                                                     9.77    11060  Elevator Operator                                                    10.67 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 106 of 115

  11090  Gardener                                                             12.78    11122  Housekeeping Aide                                                    10.67    11150  Janitor                                                              10.67    11210  Laborer, Grounds Maintenance                                         11.29    11240  Maid or Houseman                                                      9.11    11260  Pruner                                                               11.66    11270  Tractor Operator                                                     12.29    11330  Trail Maintenance Worker                                             11.29    11360  Window Cleaner                                                       11.14  12000  Health Occupations    12010  Ambulance Driver                                                     15.66    12011  Breath Alcohol Technician                                            15.66    12012  Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant                           21.24    12015  Certified Physical Therapist Assistant                               21.24    12020  Dental Assistant                                                     14.69    12025  Dental Hygienist                                                     30.53    12030  EKG Technician                                                       23.32    12035  Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist                                  23.32    12040  Emergency Medical Technician                                         15.66    12071  Licensed Practical Nurse I                                           14.65    12072  Licensed Practical Nurse II                                          15.66    12073  Licensed Practical Nurse III                                         16.87    12100  Medical Assistant                                                    13.06    12130  Medical Laboratory Technician                                        16.83    12160  Medical Record Clerk                                                 11.85    12190  Medical Record Technician                                            12.93    12195  Medical Transcriptionist                                             16.02    12210  Nuclear Medicine Technologist                                        33.83    12221  Nursing Assistant I                                                   9.79    12222  Nursing Assistant II                                                 11.11    12223  Nursing Assistant III                                                12.12    12224  Nursing Assistant IV                                                 13.49    12235  Optical Dispenser                                                    14.30    12236  Optical Technician                                                   13.38    12250  Pharmacy Technician                                                  11.79    12280  Phlebotomist                                                         13.52    12305  Radiologic Technologist                                              21.91    12311  Registered Nurse I                                                   22.29    12312  Registered Nurse II                                                  27.27    12313  Registered Nurse II, Specialist                                      26.28    12314  Registered Nurse III                                                 32.99    12315  Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist                                    31.82    12316  Registered Nurse IV                                                  39.53    12317  Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing)                                 19.06  13000  Information And Arts Occupations    13011  Exhibits Specialist I                                                18.48    13012  Exhibits Specialist II                                               23.58 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 107 of 115

  13013  Exhibits Specialist III                                              27.60    13041  Illustrator I                                                        18.21    13042  Illustrator II                                                       22.91    13043  Illustrator III                                                      27.60    13047  Librarian                                                            24.98    13050  Library Aide/Clerk                                                   11.50    13054  Library Information Technology Systems                               22.56    Administrator    13058  Library Technician                                                   13.29    13061  Media Specialist I                                                   16.28    13062  Media Specialist II                                                  18.21    13063  Media Specialist III                                                 20.31    13071  Photographer I                                                       13.34    13072  Photographer II                                                      17.10    13073  Photographer III                                                     21.83    13074  Photographer IV                                                      26.69    13075  Photographer V                                                       28.08    13110  Video Teleconference Technician                                      12.06  14000  Information Technology Occupations    14041  Computer Operator I                                                  16.48    14042  Computer Operator II                                                 18.43    14043  Computer Operator III                                                21.18    14044  Computer Operator IV                                                 24.24    14045  Computer Operator V                                                  26.85    14071  Computer Programmer I                          (see 1)               20.59    14072  Computer Programmer II                         (see 1)               26.66    14073  Computer Programmer III                        (see 1)    14074  Computer Programmer IV                         (see 1)    14101  Computer Systems Analyst I                     (see 1)    14102  Computer Systems Analyst II                    (see 1)    14103  Computer Systems Analyst III                   (see 1)    14150  Peripheral Equipment Operator                                        16.48    14160  Personal Computer Support Technician                                 24.24  15000  Instructional Occupations    15010  Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (NonRated)                      25.84    15020  Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated)                          34.10    15030  Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot)                         37.51    15050  Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor                      22.55    15060  Educational Technologist                                             26.08    15070  Flight Instructor (Pilot)                                            37.51    15080  Graphic Artist                                                       20.42    15090  Technical Instructor                                                 17.36    15095  Technical Instructor/Course Developer                                21.23    15110  Test Proctor                                                         14.37    15120  Tutor                                                                14.37  16000  Laundry, DryCleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations    16010  Assembler                                                             8.94 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 108 of 115

  16030  Counter Attendant                                                     8.94    16040  Dry Cleaner                                                          11.61    16070  Finisher, Flatwork, Machine                                           8.94    16090  Presser, Hand                                                         8.94    16110  Presser, Machine, Drycleaning                                         8.94    16130  Presser, Machine, Shirts                                              8.94    16160  Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry                            8.94    16190  Sewing Machine Operator                                              12.46    16220  Tailor                                                               13.33    16250  Washer, Machine                                                       9.87  19000  Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations    19010  MachineTool Operator (Tool Room)                                    20.29    19040  Tool And Die Maker                                                   23.91  21000  Materials Handling And Packing Occupations    21020  Forklift Operator                                                    16.18    21030  Material Coordinator                                                 20.22    21040  Material Expediter                                                   20.22    21050  Material Handling Laborer                                            13.08    21071  Order Filler                                                         11.69    21080  Production Line Worker (Food Processing)                             16.18    21110  Shipping Packer                                                      14.48    21130  Shipping/Receiving Clerk                                             14.48    21140  Store Worker I                                                       16.96    21150  Stock Clerk                                                          19.39    21210  Tools And Parts Attendant                                            16.18    21410  Warehouse Specialist                                                 16.18  23000  Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations    23010  Aerospace Structural Welder                                          22.95    23021  Aircraft Mechanic I                                                  22.01    23022  Aircraft Mechanic II                                                 22.95    23023  Aircraft Mechanic III                                                23.91    23040  Aircraft Mechanic Helper                                             18.43    23050  Aircraft, Painter                                                    22.13    23060  Aircraft Servicer                                                    19.81    23080  Aircraft Worker                                                      20.51    23110  Appliance Mechanic                                                   18.76    23120  Bicycle Repairer                                                     16.37    23125  Cable Splicer                                                        28.42    23130  Carpenter, Maintenance                                               21.59    23140  Carpet Layer                                                         18.26    23160  Electrician, Maintenance                                             25.82    23181  Electronics Technician Maintenance I                                 21.42    23182  Electronics Technician Maintenance II                                22.39    23183  Electronics Technician Maintenance III                               23.42    23260  Fabric Worker                                                        19.46    23290  Fire Alarm System Mechanic                                           19.64    23310  Fire Extinguisher Repairer                                           18.73 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 109 of 115

  23311  Fuel Distribution System Mechanic                                    23.58    23312  Fuel Distribution System Operator                                    19.82    23370  General Maintenance Worker                                           17.60    23380  Ground Support Equipment Mechanic                                    22.01    23381  Ground Support Equipment Servicer                                    19.81    23382  Ground Support Equipment Worker                                      20.51    23391  Gunsmith I                                                           18.98    23392  Gunsmith II                                                          20.67    23393  Gunsmith III                                                         22.59    23410  Heating, Ventilation And AirConditioning                            20.67    Mechanic    23411  Heating, Ventilation And Air Contditioning                           21.90    Mechanic (Research Facility)    23430  Heavy Equipment Mechanic                                             20.30    23440  Heavy Equipment Operator                                             28.17    23460  Instrument Mechanic                                                  23.63    23465  Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic                                          21.04    23470  Laborer                                                              11.44    23510  Locksmith                                                            20.51    23530  Machinery Maintenance Mechanic                                       21.53    23550  Machinist, Maintenance                                               18.72    23580  Maintenance Trades Helper                                            16.35    23591  Metrology Technician I                                               23.63    23592  Metrology Technician II                                              24.64    23593  Metrology Technician III                                             25.65    23640  Millwright                                                           23.24    23710  Office Appliance Repairer                                            19.62    23760  Painter, Maintenance                                                 18.64    23790  Pipefitter, Maintenance                                              24.66    23810  Plumber, Maintenance                                                 22.82    23820  Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic                                         22.30    23850  Rigger                                                               22.30    23870  Scale Mechanic                                                       20.40    23890  SheetMetal Worker, Maintenance                                      23.06    23910  Small Engine Mechanic                                                18.15    23931  Telecommunications Mechanic I                                        25.05    23932  Telecommunications Mechanic II                                       29.00    23950  Telephone Lineman                                                    27.64    23960  Welder, Combination, Maintenance                                     18.91    23965  Well Driller                                                         21.48    23970  Woodcraft Worker                                                     22.30    23980  Woodworker                                                           18.73  24000  Personal Needs Occupations    24570  Child Care Attendant                                                  9.74    24580  Child Care Center Clerk                                              13.55    24610  Chore Aide                                                           10.02    24620  Family Readiness And Support Services                                12.80 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 110 of 115

  Coordinator    24630  Homemaker                                                            13.51  25000  Plant And System Operations Occupations    25010  Boiler Tender                                                        25.87    25040  Sewage Plant Operator                                                20.30    25070  Stationary Engineer                                                  25.87    25190  Ventilation Equipment Tender                                         20.89    25210  Water Treatment Plant Operator                                       20.30  27000  Protective Service Occupations    27004  Alarm Monitor                                                        18.39    27007  Baggage Inspector                                                    11.17    27008  Corrections Officer                                                  23.27    27010  Court Security Officer                                               21.16    27030  Detection Dog Handler                                                15.08    27040  Detention Officer                                                    23.27    27070  Firefighter                                                          17.91    27101  Guard I                                                              11.17    27102  Guard II                                                             15.08    27131  Police Officer I                                                     22.23    27132  Police Officer II                                                    24.70  28000  Recreation Occupations    28041  Carnival Equipment Operator                                          10.71    28042  Carnival Equipment Repairer                                          11.11    28043  Carnival Equpment Worker                                              9.51    28210  Gate Attendant/Gate Tender                                           13.69    28310  Lifeguard                                                            11.01    28350  Park Attendant (Aide)                                                15.32    28510  Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant                            11.10    28515  Recreation Specialist                                                16.35    28630  Sports Official                                                      12.20    28690  Swimming Pool Operator                                               13.31  29000  Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services    29010  Blocker And Bracer                                                   23.34    29020  Hatch Tender                                                         23.34    29030  Line Handler                                                         22.13    29041  Stevedore I                                                          22.27    29042  Stevedore II                                                         24.40  30000  Technical Occupations    30010  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO)   (see 2)               35.77    30011  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO)  (see 2)               24.66    30012  Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2)               27.16    30021  Archeological Technician I                                           18.88    30022  Archeological Technician II                                          21.11    30023  Archeological Technician III                                         26.16    30030  Cartographic Technician                                              25.49    30040  Civil Engineering Technician                                         23.42    30061  Drafter/CAD Operator I                                               17.21 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 111 of 115

  30062  Drafter/CAD Operator II                                              20.58    30063  Drafter/CAD Operator III                                             22.95    30064  Drafter/CAD Operator IV                                              28.25    30081  Engineering Technician I                                             18.52    30082  Engineering Technician II                                            20.79    30083  Engineering Technician III                                           23.25    30084  Engineering Technician IV                                            28.85    30085  Engineering Technician V                                             35.57    30086  Engineering Technician VI                                            42.64    30090  Environmental Technician                                             23.77    30210  Laboratory Technician                                                21.58    30240  Mathematical Technician                                              25.49    30361  Paralegal/Legal Assistant I                                          16.09    30362  Paralegal/Legal Assistant II                                         18.32    30363  Paralegal/Legal Assistant III                                        21.73    30364  Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV                                         26.28    30390  PhotoOptics Technician                                              25.49    30461  Technical Writer I                                                   21.11    30462  Technical Writer II                                                  25.82    30463  Technical Writer III                                                 31.37    30491  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I                               22.74    30492  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II                              27.51    30493  Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III                             32.97    30494  Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort                                       22.74    30495  Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel                                     22.74    30620  Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or        (see 2)               22.95    Surface Programs    30621  Weather Observer, Senior                       (see 2)               25.49  31000  Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations    31020  Bus Aide                                                             10.37    31030  Bus Driver                                                           13.49    31043  Driver Courier                                                       12.48    31260  Parking and Lot Attendant                                            10.44    31290  Shuttle Bus Driver                                                   13.26    31310  Taxi Driver                                                          10.70    31361  Truckdriver, Light                                                   12.98    31362  Truckdriver, Medium                                                  13.49    31363  Truckdriver, Heavy                                                   18.94    31364  Truckdriver, TractorTrailer                                         18.94  99000  Miscellaneous Occupations    99030  Cashier                                                               8.75    99050  Desk Clerk                                                            9.74    99095  Embalmer                                                             30.13    99251  Laboratory Animal Caretaker I                                         9.18    99252  Laboratory Animal Caretaker II                                        9.55    99310  Mortician                                                            31.54    99410  Pest Controller                                                      14.27 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 112 of 115

  99510  Photofinishing Worker                                                11.95    99710  Recycling Laborer                                                    16.15    99711  Recycling Specialist                                                 17.57    99730  Refuse Collector                                                     15.43    99810  Sales Clerk                                                          11.36    99820  School Crossing Guard                                                11.44    99830  Survey Party Chief                                                   28.51    99831  Surveying Aide                                                       14.77    99832  Surveying Technician                                                 20.48    99840  Vending Machine Attendant                                            12.90    99841  Vending Machine Repairer                                             14.61    99842  Vending Machine Repairer Helper                                      13.00  ___________________________________________________________________________________  ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS:    HEALTH & WELFARE: $3.81 per hour or $152.40 per week or $660.40 per month    VACATION: 2 weeks paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or successor; 3 weeks after 5  years, 4 weeks after 15 years, and 5 weeks after 20 years.   Length of service includes the whole span of  continuous service with the present contractor or successor, wherever employed, and with the  predecessor contractors in the performance of similar work at the same Federal facility.  (Reg. 29 CFR  4.173)  HOLIDAYS: A minimum of twelve paid holidays per year:  New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr's  Birthday,  Washington's Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus  Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Day before Christmas, and Christmas Day. (A contractor may  substitute for any of the named holidays another day of with pay in accordance with a plan  communicated to the employees involved.)  (See 29 CFR 4.174)    THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING:    1)  COMPUTER EMPLOYEES:  Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does not apply to  any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional  employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541.  Because most Computer System Analysts and Computer  Programmers who are compensated at a rate not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate  not less than $455 per week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R.  541.400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations within those job  families.  In addition, because this wage determination may not list a wage rate for some or all  occupations within those job families if the survey data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the  occupation equals or exceeds $27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt  employees.  For example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties  within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer occupations for  which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate, then the wage rate for that employee  must be conformed in accordance with the conformance procedures described in the conformance note  included on this wage determination.    Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer industry, job titles are  not determinative of the application of the computer professional exemption.  Therefore, the exemption 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 113 of 115

applies only to computer employees who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary  duty consists of:  (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including  consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional specifications;   (2) The  design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or modification of computer systems or  programs, including prototypes, based on and related to user or system design specifications;  (3) The  design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer programs related to machine  operating systems; or  (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which  requires the same level of skills.  (29 C.F.R. 541.400).  2)  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS  NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY:  If you work at  night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential and receive an additional 10% of  basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am.  If you are a fulltime employed (40 hours a  week) and Sunday is part of your regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay  plus a Sunday premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime  (i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered overtime work).    HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a  position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or in close proximity to ordinance,  explosives, and incendiary materials.  This includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and  pressing of sensitive ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black   powder and photoflash powder.  All dryhouse activities involving propellants or explosives.   Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations on sensitive  ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials.  All operations involving regrading and cleaning of  artillery ranges.    A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that represents a low degree  of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to)  explosives and incendiary materials which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or  arms of the employee engaged in the operation,  irritation of the skin, minor burns and the like; minimal  damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used. All operations involving,  unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and incendiary ordnance material other than  small arms ammunition.  These differentials are only applicable to work that has been specifically  designated by the agency for ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay.    ** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE **    If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract (either by the terms of  the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such  uniforms and maintaining (by laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be  borne by an employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage  determination. The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the following  standards as compliance:  The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an adequate number of  uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual cost of the uniforms.  In addition, where  uniform cleaning and maintenance is made the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and  subcontractors subject to this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective  bargaining agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary affirmative proof as  to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 114 of 115

week (or $.67 cents per day).  However, in those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of  "wash and wear" materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do  not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial laundering in order  to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms of the Government contract, by the  contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work, there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed  for uniform maintenance costs.    The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the "Service Contract Act Directory  of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006, unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are  available on the Internet. A links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at  http://www.dol.gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations OnLine (WDOL) Web site at  http://wdol.gov/.    REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form  1444 (SF 1444)}    Conformance Process:    The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is not listed herein and  which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to be performed is not performed by any  classification listed in the wage determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a  reasonable relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted classifications  and the classifications listed in the wage determination.  Such conformed classes of employees shall be  paid the monetary wages and furnished the fringe benefits as are determined.  Such conforming process  shall be initiated by the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es)  of employees.  The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall be retroactive to the  commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)} When multiple wage determinations are  included in a contract, a separate SF 1444 should be prepared for each wage determination to which a  class(es) is to beconformed.    The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows:    1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed occupation(s) and  computes a proposed rate(s).  2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order proposed classification  title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each proposed classification(s), job description(s), and  rationale for proposed wage rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of  the authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized  representative, the employees themselves.  This report should be submitted to the contracting officer  no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees performs any contract work.  3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report of the action,  together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent information including the position of the  contractor and the employees, to the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration,  U.S. Department of Labor, for review.  (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4).  4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or disapproves the action  via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or notifies the contracting officer that additional time  will be required to process the request. 

W912ES-14-T-0029 Page 115 of 115

5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor.  6) The contractor informs the affected employees.    Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.    When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations" (the  Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure that duties requested are not performed  by a classification already listed in the wage determination.  Remember, it is not the job title, but the  required tasks that determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination.  Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide classifications listed in the  wage determination. 

