

1.  BACKGROUND:  Air University flight rooms directly support graduate level Professional Military Education and Training under the charge of the Air Education and Training Command of the United States Air Force.  The goal is to utilize interactive whiteboard technology and video teleconferencing (VTC) educator systems to centralize computing resources and gain efficiencies in the delivery and administrative management of desktop/server images for the clients in the classroom.  This Statement of Objectives (SOO) is specific to the configuration and installation of the equipment that will outfit Professional Military Education classrooms.  This SOO describes the high level objectives of the Flight Room of the Future (FRF) project in order to assist the contractor in determining the required equipment, developing the proposed schedule for implementation, and in the creation of the best possible proposal for this Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract, allowing for future firm-fixed priced delivery orders of equipment. 





2.  SCOPE:  The scope of this project is to provide an interactive whiteboard technology and VTC system enabling educator training delivery.  The Offeror shall provide a phased approach for the installation, implementation, and management of associated interactive whiteboard technology, audio/visual equipment, and software; while meeting backward compatibility requirements with existing Spaatz and Barnes Center Information Technology (IT) equipment and infrastructure. The solution will integrate current IT client appliances with existing IT infrastructure, and audio/visual equipment with existing SMART Board™ Interactive Educator Systems (Attachment 3: Pre-Existing Equipment). It must also support up to 14 user connections per classroom.  The hardware and software proposed by this solution will be installed in a minimum of 1 classroom with a maximum of 265 classrooms. This Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract will cover a three year time span.  All equipment and software installed shall meet all Department of Defense information security directives and configuration requirements as stated in Appendix 2.  



3.  OBJECTIVES:  The Offeror has the flexibility to present tradeoffs that will meet the FRF objectives listed below.  The following is a high-level definition of the initial design, implementation, and post-implementation phased approach and is not intended to restrict or limit the contractor’s ability to offer innovative planning, best business practices or approaches.  This project is seeking an Offeror that is a leader in designing and implementing interactive classroom information technology systems, knowledgeable in information technology system architecture, creative, innovative and capable of delivering a complete classroom solution.  The Offeror is required to provide pertinent engineering program management services that will ensure flight rooms possess a complete and integrated solution.  Offeror must provide initial training to the government support staff on classroom system operation and the intricacies of the project’s system architecture.



3.1. Solution Development: A site visit will be held for all interested contractors to allow for classroom layout to be viewed and the cross flow of information between AU personnel and potential offerors.



3.2. Validation of Estimated Bill of Materials (see Attachment 1):  The contractor will need to validate the estimated bill of materials and ensure that it contains all of the required hardware, software, and supplies needed in order to implement, manage, and install hardware and software that is required in order to provide a complete solution.



3.2. Proof-of-Concept:  Before beginning the IMPLEMENTATION AND BUILD PHASE, the contractor will conduct a proof-of-concept to prove the design in a live environment.  The Spaatz Center shall furnish classroom space for the proof-of-concept.



3.3. Implementation and Build Phase:  After successful completion of the previous phases, the contractor will conduct the rollout of the technologies and methodologies solidified during Proof- of-Concept.  



3.4. Documentation & Knowledge Transfer:  In accordance with the philosophy of maximizing potential for success by empowering the customer to manage the technology deployed, the contractor will focus on providing documentation, knowledge transfer, and system training once the implementation is complete.



3.5. Training Classes:  Classes will be provided for on-site staff and will be held on-site or at an agreed upon training facility.  Training shall be priced on a per class basis.  All training must be completed within 60 days of deploying the IT infrastructure.



3.6.  Post-Implementation & Support:  The Post-Implementation and Support phase gives the contractor the opportunity to identify and resolve any open issues and identify any additional needs before moving forward that the contractor may be able to support. 



3.7.  IT Lifecycle Strategies:  Provide a written strategy for Technology Refresh and Asset Recovery throughout the lifecycle of this system based off of current IT best business practices for all assets incorporated in this solution.



3.8. Transition and Exit Plan:  Implement a transition plan that provides for an orderly transition of infrastructure services back to the faculty as needed.  Provide the COTR with a written copy of the transition and exit plan.



4.  MISCELLANEOUS:  Any components, e.g. hardware or software, proposed by the contractor that require conversion or training costs to implement into the existing infrastructure or that may be incurred by implementing the contractors proposed solution for design, implementation, ongoing operations, or maintenance, must be identified and included in the contractors cost proposal.



5.  WARRANTIES: Proof of industry standard warranties for all hardware must be provided for each piece of equipment incorporated in the contractor’s proposed design for this system. Also a one year warranty on installation must be provided by the contractor that begins on the day of installation completion and acceptance by the Government. This installation warranty must be provided commensurate with each classroom IT suite delivered.



6. Attachments:

	1. Prototype Room – Minimum Technology Requirements	

	2. Pre-Existing Equipment









































Attachment 1

Prototype Room – Minimum Technology Requirements



A.  DESIRED MINIMUM TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS

The following information defines the minimum technology baseline per classroom.  



          1.  One interactive whiteboard system with integrated projector (65"-85")

               - Larger sizes, up to 85" are desired in classrooms that can accommodate them

               - Must be wall mountable

               - Must interface/display output from computers and audio/visual equipment in 

                 the flight room to include student laptops

               - Must be able to display High Definition (HD) video as well as non-HD video

               - Must be compatible with SMART Board™ technology 

          

          2.  Two 42" flat-panel monitors

               - Must be wall mountable (mounting hardware must allow tilt capability)

               - Must be able to display High Definition (HD) video as well as non-HD video

               - Must interface/display output from all other computers and audio/visual equipment in 

                 the flight room to include student laptops



          3.  One instructor station/desk 

               - Must have room for a computer, monitor, keyboard, and mouse

               - Must consist at minimum of an audio/visual rack for at least five audio visual components, 

                 independent/redundant controls for room lighting with dimming capability, 

                 independent/redundant controls for room climate control, and a universal controller 

                 which allows control of all audio/visual equipment to include the interactive 

                 whiteboard system, monitors, speakers, microphones, briefing camera, and document 

                 camera

              - The desk, or anything on the desk may not obstruct viewing angles for the interactive 

                whiteboard or LCD monitors

              - Must be easily moveable

              - Must control independent speaker(s) and microphone(s) which cover the entire room 

                for delivering/collecting understandable audio

                -- Must interface with all other computers and audio/visual equipment in the flight room



          4.  TV tuner(s)

               - Must enable display of cable HD television to both flat-panel monitors and the interactive 

                 whiteboard system 

                -- Each monitor and interactive whiteboard system must be able to display different channels 

                   from the other displays simultaneously 



          5.  One wall or ceiling mounted digital video recording camera

               - Must be able to record color video to a computer at the instructor station

               - Must cover the entire room and be easily slewable if necessary



          6.  Ceiling mounted speaker(s)

               - Must provide understandable audio to the entire room

               - Placement cannot block cameras or projection devices

               - Must interface with all other computers and audio equipment in the flight room 



          7.  Microphone(s)

               - Must be able to record understandable audio to a computer at the instructor station  



          8.  One document camera

               - Must allow documents to be displayed from the instructor station



          9.  Remote Control

               - Must control all audio/visual equipment for the purpose of delivering classroom instruction

               - Must be able to be held/manipulated with one hand



B.  GENERAL GUIDANCE  

The following information defines general requirements that apply to all hardware mentioned above.



          1.  All hardware should be capable of having a computer other than those already in the classroom 

               of interfacing with it (i.e. a laptop should be able to plug into the system)

          2.  All wires and cords shall be concealed to the maximum extent possible

          3.  Remote operation of hardware must not interfere with the operation of equipment in

               adjacent classrooms

          4.  Equipment, if not already wireless, should be expandable to accept wireless control

          5.  System should be expandable to enable student laptops to wirelessly interface with the 

               interactive whiteboard system and flat panel monitors

          6.  Solution must be expandable to include VTC capability

          






Attachment 2

Pre-existing Equipment



NEC VT700 3LCD Projector Specifications















 





EIKI  LC-X990

 



LCD Projector XGA 2200 ANSI Lumens Power Zoom & Focus - Specifications

Image Characteristics



Lamp



Image Control



Supplied Lens



Controls









Computer Specifications



Video Specifications



Audio Specifications



Connections



Physical Specifications



Electrical Specifications



Environment



Safety



Security



User Maintenance



Warranty



Warning



































Brightness - ANSI Lumens

2200

Contrast Ratio - Full ON/OFF

350:1

Horizontal Resolution - TV Lines

800

Imaging System

1.3" PolySilicon active matrix TFT Panels x 3

Illumination Uniformity

85%+

Light Organization

Polarized Beam Splitter & Microlens array

Light - RGB Distribution

Dichroic Mirror System & X-Prism System

Scanning Frequency

Auto: H Sync. 15-100 KHz; V Sync. 50-100 Hz

Screen Pixels

1024 x 768

Size of Color Palette

16.7 Million

Total Pixels

2,359,296 ((1024 x 768) x 3)

Estimated Lamp Life Hours

1000

Lamp

200 Watt UHP

Anti-Keystone

Fixed Image Offset Ratio (T:B) 20:1

Front Elevation

up to 6.0º up

Image Orientation

Normal, Reversed, Inverted

Keystone Correction - Digital

±30°

Lens Speed

f:1.8 ~ 2.1

Focal Length - Max.

2.48"

Lens Protection

Lens Cap

Focal Length - Min.

1.91"

Lens Type

Power Zoom & Focus

Image Diagonal - Max.

400"

Image Diagonal - Min.

30"

Image Width - Max.

26.7'

Image Width - Min.

2'

Throw Distance - Max.

63.2'

Throw Distance - Min.

4.8'

Throw:Width ratio

1.82 ~ 2:37:1

Zoom Ratio - Max:Min:

1.3:1

Local Control

Full Function

Remote Control - Projector & Mouse

Wireless (Infra Red) with Laser Pointer x 1

Computer Native Resolution

1024 x 768

Computer Compatiblity

SXGA, XGA, SVGA, VGA & MAC

Computer Formats Supported

1280x1024, 1024x768, 800x600, 640x480

Computer Dot Clock

165 MHz

Computer Image Sizing

Normal or Smart compressed or expanded

Video Input Systems

Composite/Component: Y,Pb/Cb,Pr/Cr, S-Video

Video Color Systems

NTSC / PAL / SECAM / NTSC 4.43 / PAL-M&N

SDTV Compatibility

480i/p, 575i/p

HDTV Compatibility

720p, 1035i, 1080i

Video Formats Supported

4:3 & 16:9

Video Image Sizing

Video Scaling Technology

Amplifier

Stereo: 2 Watts RMS

Speakers (Built-in)

2 x (1.57 x 2.75 in.)

Number of Channels

3

Number of Data Channels

2

Number of Video Channels

1

On Input 1 - Dsub15 x 1

Computer Input - Analog or, Component Video In (via adapter)

On Input 1 - ministereo x 1

Audio In (Computer 1) - Stereo

On Input 2 - Dsub15 x 1

Computer Input - Analog or, Component Video In (via adapter)

On Input 2 - ministereo x 1

Audio In (Video) - Stereo

On Input 3 - 4 pin DIN (S-Video) x 1

S-Video Input (Y/C)

On Input 3 - RCA x 2 (L & R or red & white)

Audio In - Video (S-Video, Composite/Component (Video/Y,Pb/Cb,Pr/Cr))

On Input 3 - RCA x 3 (yellow, blue & red or or Video/Y, Cb/Pb, Cr/Pr)

Video - Composite/Component: Y,Pb/Cb,Pr/Cr

On Computer In 1 - Dsub15 x 1

Data Input

On Computer Out - Dsub15 x 1

Computer 1 & 2 - Analog Out

MiniStereo x 1

External speaker jack (8Ω) stereo

RCA x 1 (yellow)

Video In (Composite)

8 pin DIN x 1

Mouse & RS-232 control port

Cabinet Height

5.73"

Cabinet Width

10.71"

Cabinet Depth

16.24"

Packaged Height

12.5"

Packaged Width

16"

Packaged Depth

22.3"

Weight

15.2 lbs

Packaged Weight

22.1 lbs

Power Management

Auto Shut-Off

Power Requirements

100-240V AC, 50/60Hz

Power Consumption

300 Watts

Power Cord

10' Type 3, Detachable

Operating Noise - dBA

42

Operating Temperature - Max.

95°F

Operating Temperature - Min.

41°F

Generated Heat

1024 BTU/hr (258 Kcal/hr)

Electrical Safety Compliance

UL Listed

Kensington® Security Slot

Cable Locking System

maintenance

Clean Air Filter, Replace Lamp

Warranty - Unit (to original end-use customer)

3 Yr. / 6000 Hr.* (Parts/Labor to Correct Defects) * Whichever Occurs First

Warranty - Lamp (to original end-use customer)

6 mo./1000 hrs. (pro-rata replacement of failed lamp)

Laser Warning

CAUTION! The following warning is required by the US FDA and pertains to the laser pointer in the wireless remote control for this projector. Laser Radiation: Do not stare into beam. Max. Output: 1 mW. Wave Length: 650 +/







General

Aspect Ratio

4:3 (Native) 5:4, 16:9

General

Brightness (ANSI Lumens)

3000 ANSI Lumens (Normal)
2400 ANSI Lumens (Eco Mode)

General

Contrast Ratio

500:1

General

Display Type

1.6" Polysilicon LCD x 3

General

Resolution (Native / Max)

XGA (1024 x 768)
UXGA (1600 x 1200)

General

Projection Lens

F = 1.7 ~ 2.07
f = 18.9 ~ 22.7mm

Size

Dimensions (WxHxD)

12.1in. x 4.4in. x 10.2in.
(30.73cm x 11.18cm x 25.91cm)

Size

Weight

6.8 lbs. (3.08 kg)

Connectivity

Inputs

1 x Mini D-Sub 15pin
1 x DVI-I
1 x Phono Jack
1 x S-Video
1 x Stereo Mini Jack
1 x RCA Audio

Connectivity

Outputs

1 x Mini D-Sub 15pin
1 x Stereo Mini Jack

Connectivity

Audio

1 x 5W Speaker

Connectivity

Control

1 x RS-232

Operation

Power Supply

100 ~ 240 V / 50 ~ 60 Hz

Operation

Power Consumption

295W (Normal)
9W (Standby)

Operation

Approvals

CE, TUV, GS

Operation

Audible Noise

29 dB

Projection Lens

Lamp Type

210W

Projection Lens

Lamp Life

2000 hrs (Normal)
3000 hrs (Eco Mode)

Projection Lens

Projection Distance

2.3ft. ~ 36.4ft. (0.7m ~ 11.09m)

Projection Lens

Projection Mode

Front

Projection Lens

Projection Screen Size (Diagonal)

20in. ~ 300in. (50.8cm ~ 762cm)

Projection Lens

Throw Ratio

1.5 ~ 1.8:1

Projection Lens

Vertical Keystone Correction

+/- 30 Degrees

Other

H-Sync Range

15 ~ 100 kHz

Other

V-Sync Range

50 ~ 120 Hz

In The Box

Items

Remote Control
Mini D-Sub Cable
Power Cord
Lens Cap
User Manual (CD-ROM)
Quick Setup Guide
Soft Case
Handle
DVI / VGA Adapter

Warranty

Projector

3 Year Warranty

Warranty

Lamp

6 Months / 1000 hrs Warranty



Dukane ImagePro 8711 Projector 

Dukane ImagePro 8711 Projector 

Digital Multimedia Projector

Digital Multimedia Projector

3000 Lumens, 500:1 Contrast, 5.8 kg, 3 cm 3 LCD Projector 





Dukane ImagePro 8711 Projector Specifications



Dukane ImagePro 8711 Projector Specifications





MSRP (USD) :

$7,875

Brightness (Lumens) :

3000 ANSI

Contrast (Full On/Off) :

500:1

Variable Iris:

     **

Audible Noise:

39.0 dB

Eco-Mode:

35.0 dB

Weight:

5.8 kg

Size (cm) (HxWxD) :

12 x 38 x 29 



Std. Lens:

Focus:

Power

Zoom:

Power, 1.50:1

Throw Dist (m) : 

1.5 - 7.0 

Image Size (cm) :

83 - 583 

Optional Lenses:

Yes

Digital Zoom:

Yes

Digital Keystone:

Horz & Vert

Lens Shift:

No

Warranty:

5 Years

Performance:

 

H-Sync Range:

15.0 - 91.0kHz

V-Sync Range:

50 - 120Hz



Compatibility:

Compatibility:

HDTV:

1080i, 720p, 575i 

EDTV/480p:

     **

SDTV/480i:

     **

Component Video:

Yes

Video:

Yes

Digital Input:

DVI

Computers:

Yes



Display:

Type:

3 cm 3 LCD

Native:

1024x768 Pixels

Maximum:

1600x1200 Pixels

Aspect Ratio:

4:3 (XGA)



Lamp:

Type:

275W UHP

Life:

2000 hours

Quantity:

1

Speakers:

1.0W+ 1.0W

Max Power:

430W

Voltage:

100V - 240V

FCC Class:

B

Special:

Picture-in-Picture

Status:

Out of Production

First Ship:

Jan 2003

Last Ship:

Dec 2004 

Attachment 2



Addendum to 52.212-1, Instruction to Offerors, Commercial Items (June 2008)  

Change paragraph (f), Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers, and delete (h) Multiple Awards as follows:  

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting technical proposals, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the Letter Request for Technical Proposal (Unpriced) by the time specified in the letter.  If no time is specified in the letter, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that technical proposals or revisions are due.

(2)

(i) Any technical proposal under step one of two-step Request for Proposal (RFP), modification, revision, or withdrawal of such technical proposal received at the Government office designated in the request for technical proposals after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late technical proposal would not unduly delay the acquisition; and—

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the letter, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or

(C) If this is a request for proposals, it was the only technical proposal received.

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that technical proposals cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of technical proposals by the exact time specified in the request for technical proposals, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the request for technical proposals, the time specified for receipt of technical proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the request for technical proposals on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.

(5) Technical proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of technical proposals. If the request for technical proposals authorizes facsimile technical proposals, they may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of proposals, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile offers. A technical proposal may be withdrawn in person by an offeror   it’s authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of technical proposals, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and that person signs a receipt for the technical proposal.

 (h) Multiple awards.  Deleted  
SUBSTANTIAL CONFIDENCE ο LIMITED CONFIDENCE
      ο SATISFACTORY CONFIDENCE   ο NO CONFIDENCE
                                                                                      ο UNKNOWN CONFIDENCE







Basis for Award Under Step Two:





This is a competitive best value source selection in which competing offerors’ past performance history will be evaluated on a basis
significantly more important than price considerations.  By submission of its offer, the offeror accedes to all solicitation requirements,
including terms and condition, representations and certifications.  All such offers shall be treated equally except for their prices and
performance records.  Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and provide complete accompanying
rational.  The evaluation process shall proceed as follows:





7 Initially offers shall be ranked according to price.  An offeror’s proposed price shall be based on the offeror’s technical proposal.  The
                  price evaluation will document for the offers evaluated under the following subparagraph B, the reasonableness and
                  affordability of the proposed total evaluated price.






               9 Using questionnaires, the contracting officer shall seek relevant performance information on all offerors based on (1) the past
                  and present efforts provided by the offeror and (2) data independently obtained from other government and commercial sources.
                  Relevant performance includes performance of efforts involving the purchase and installation of audio-visual equipment in
                  auditoriums that are similar or greater in scope, magnitude and complexity than the effort described in this solicitation.
                  The government reserves the right to seek information on higher priced offerors if none of the lower priced offerors receive a
                  High Confidence performance assessment.  The purpose of the past performance evaluation is to allow the government to assess
                  the offeror’s demonstrated present and past performance The assessment process will result in an overall performance
                  confidence assessment of Substantial Confidence, Satisfactory Confidence, Limited Confidence, No Confidence, or Unknown
                  Confidence as defined in Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS) Mandatory Procedures 5315.3.  Past
                  performance regarding predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience, or sub-contractors that will perform
                  major or critical aspects of the requirement will not be considered as highly as past performance information of the principal
                  offeror.  Offerors with no relevant past or present performance history shall receive the rating “Unknown Confidence, “meaning
                  the rating is treated neither favorable nor unfavorably.





11 In evaluating past performance, the government reserves the right to give greater consideration to information on those contracts deemed most
                  relevant to the effort described in the RFP.





13 If the lowest priced evaluated offer is judged to have a Substantial Confidence performance assessment, that offer represents the best value
                  to the government and the evaluation process stops at this point.  Award shall be made to that offeror without further
                  consideration of any other offers.





15 If the lowest priced offeror is not judged to have a Substantial Confidence performance confidence assessment, the next lowest priced offeror
                  will be evaluated and the process will continue (in order by price) until an offeror is judged to have a Substantial
                  Confidence performance confidence assessment or until all offerors are evaluated.  The Source Selection Authority shall then
                  make an integrated assessment best value award decision.





17 Offerors are cautioned to submit sufficient information and in the format specified in Instructions to Offerors.  Offerors may be asked to
                  clarify certain aspects of their proposal (for example, the relevance of past performance information) or respond to adverse
                  past performance information to which the offeror has not previously had an opportunity to respond.  Adverse past performance
                  is defined as past performance information that supports a less than satisfactory rating on any evaluation element or any
                  unfavorable comments received from sources without a formal rating system.  Communication conducted to resolve minor or
                  clerical errors will not constitute discussions and the contracting officer reserves the right to award a contract without the
                  opportunity for proposal revision.


               A. The government intends to award a contract without discussions with respective offerors.  The government, however, reserves
                  the right to conduct discussions if deemed in its best interest.








