IBM Maximo Asset Management Implementation

                                 August 2010   

 

95th Civil Engineer Directorate Air Force Flight Test Center Edwards Air Force Base, California 93524-8450

Scope and Objectives  The Civil Engineer Directorate of Edwards AFB, CA is in the process of decommissioning a legacy  MRO Maximo 4.1.1 Server.  We are standing up a new IBM Maximo Asset Management system  as a replacement to the legacy system.    New hierarchies for both Locations and Equipment will need to be designed and implemented.   The intent is to implement the IBM Spatial module for Maximo, and as such will need to design  the hierarchies with this in mind.    At completion of the build and design phase of the project, we expect to have a fully functional  production and test/development systems with enough real data to test and validate the  installation and functionality.  After the design phase and testing, Edwards AFB personnel will  complete the data load to make the system ready for a golive phase.  At this time, support  from the selected integrator will be required in making the transition from the old system to  the new system.    Some training will need to be given to both the system administrators and the key users of the  Maximo system for both system operation and report writing.    Basic KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) and Reports will need to be configured as well as  migration of some basic reports from the old system.    Purpose of the Document  This statement of work serves as a tool for recording requirements, ensuring that these  requirements are met. The overall objective is to define desired results and goals.    History  The Maximo application has been in use in the organization for greater than a decade.    The existing system is aged and has been modified on numerous occasions with little or no  documentation.  The MRO engineers examined the system and determined that an upgrade  path was technically prohibitively difficult and recommended a reimplementation.  Another  integrator gave the same result after inspecting the system.    The intent is to leverage as much of the existing static data as possible, where it is wise and  appropriate to do so.    There is no intention of migrating active work order, purchasing, and  other records to the new system.     

Page | 2

Assumptions  Edwards AFB will provide all server hardware that meets or exceeds the requirements for the  Maximo application.  Servers will be configured and patched to meet all operational and  security requirements.    Edwards AFB will provide the basic core IBM Maximo Asset Manager 7.1 software.    Edwards AFB has current licenses for IBM Maximo Asset Manager.    All software used will be the newest available versions that are officially supported by IBM for  the Maximo Asset Management system.    Three servers will be configured:  Production (Application) server, Oracle database server, and a  Test/Development environment server.    The production server will eventually be configured for single signon using Common Access  Cards (CAC), so the web server and application will need to be configured with that in mind and  with coordination from the Federal Government CAC enabling team.    Application code changes should be kept to a minimum to facilitate future maintenance and  upgrade options.  Any changes made will need to be authorized and thoroughly documented.    We intend to utilize the following software components  I. Oracle 11g  II. IBM Maximo Asset Management  III. IBM Maximo Government Module  IV. IBM Spatial Asset Management Module  V. IBM Websphere  VI. BIRT (Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools)    Development shall be done on the Test/Development server.  Training shall be done on the  Test/Development server using real data where possible.  As modifications are validated and  accepted they will be implemented on the Production server; this will ensure that the  production system is pristine and ready for GoLive.     

Page | 3

Requirements  I. Software Installation and Configuration  a. Install IBM Maximo application and any required modules on Production Server  and Test/Development Server  b. Patch applications and configure properly  c. Install, patch, and configure Oracle database on Oracle Server and  Test/Development Server  d. Provide a document certifying that the system is installed, configured, and  patched properly and works at a system level   II. Capture Business Processes  a. Determine business practices  b. Determine the rules and regulations under which the organization operates  c. Define financial rules limits  d. Determine usage of current system (i.e. which modules are used and how work  is accomplished)  e. Integrator will need a reasonably clear understanding of the organizational  structure in order to create roles, crafts, security groups, etc.  f. Integrator should make recommendations as to possible business process  improvements, additional functionality of Maximo the organization could use to  increase efficiencies, and improvements in methodologies in capturing data, e.g.,  categorizing data in the system for reporting purposes including the proper use  of failure classes, problem codes, and attributes  III. Security Group and Role Structure  a. Define and create security groups  b. Define roles  IV. Hierarchy Design and Build  a. Design and build location hierarchy utilizing existing GIS  (Geographical  Information System) data  b. Design and build equipment hierarchy  c. Provide a document outlining the plans and procedures for designing and  building the hierarchies  V. Customizations  a. Identify required customizations based on organizational business practices and  system utilization.  i. Screen layout  ii. Available fields  iii. Dashboards created/modified by role  iv. Any required code changes  Page | 4

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

v. Available Modules  vi. Addition of any required custom data fields  vii. Handling any custom data that needs to transfer between  modules/records (e.g. Financial data)  Data Gathering and Loading  a. Determine which static data from Maximo 4.1.1 can be extracted, sanitized, and  reformatted for use in the new system  b. Create and distribute data gathering templates to shops and personnel to gather  required static data that cannot be extracted from the current system, e.g.,  equipment records, warrantee information, etc.  c. Extract usable data, using proper filtering, from existing system and reformat as  required  d. Load data into new system using automated methods where possible  Validation  a. Provide opportunity for management and users of system to validate the  functionality of key modules  b. Ensure modified screen meet the specified requirements, needs, usability, and  aesthetics  c. Verify proper reporting and KPI functionality  Reports  a. Create basic KPIs and Reports  b. Customize builtin reports where appropriate  c. Enable and configure the builtin report scheduling and KPI notifications via e mail  Testing  a. Test functionality of modified screens and resolve any errors or issues associated  with customizations  b. Test functionality of all key modules and resolve any errors  c. Verify functionality of any custom data that will transfer between records  (crossover fields)  d. Verify security groups and roles are appropriate and working properly  Training  a. Helpdesk Personnel (One 8hour day for approximately ten people)  i. Quick overview of new features and concepts  ii. Work order creation  iii. Run preventative maintenance schedules  iv. Labor entry  b. System Administrators (One 8 hour day for approx. 5 people) 

Page | 5

XI.

XII. XIII.

i. Quick overview of new features and concepts  ii. Security group management  iii. Application configuration  iv. Account creation  c. Report Writers (One 8hour day for approximately three people)  i. Quick overview of new features and concepts  ii. Report writing  iii. KPI creation and modification  d. Shop Leads/Supervisors (Classes for approximately twenty people.  Hold two  separate classes of eight hours for approximately ten people each)  i. Quick overview of new features and concepts  ii. Purchase request creation  iii. Basic work order functions  iv. KPI/Report usage  v. GIS integrated mapping functions  vi. Labor entry  vii. Preventative maintenance creation  viii. Job plan creation  e. Logistics Personnel (Classes for approximately twenty people.  Hold two separate  classes of eight hours for approximately ten people each)  i. Quick overview of new features and concepts  ii. Purchase request creation and processing  iii. Purchase order creation and processing  iv. Inventory control functions  v. Issues and transfers  vi. Company record creation  GoLive Support  a. Final checks on data consistency  b. Final checks on system operation  c. Final checks on security requirements  d. Transition personnel from old system to new system  e. Provide 40 hours (1 business week) onsite support during transition to new  system  Post GoLive Support  a. Provide 80 hours (2 business weeks) of post golive onsite support  Completion  a. Provide turn over fully functional system by 31 July, 2011. 

Page | 6

