

0401 – Security And Suitability Requirements (OCT 2008)

   a. Acronyms and Definitions
      • Access to a facility, site, system or information means physical access to any Social Security Administration (SSA) facility or site,
        logical access to any of SSA’s information systems, or access to programmatic or sensitive information.


      • CO - Contracting Officer


      • CPSPM – Center for Personnel Security and Project Management


      • COTR – Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative

      • PIV –    Personal Identity Verification




   b. Purpose 
      This clause provides information regarding the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) policies and procedures regarding the conduct of
      background investigations.  The purpose of these investigations is to determine the suitability of contractor employees needing access to
      an SSA facility, site, system, or information.  The clause also describes the process to obtain a PIV credential to gain access.  The
      successful contractor will be required to follow the procedures set forth in this clause commencing at the time of award.


      SSA requires all contractor employees to visit an SSA facility to obtain a credential after SSA has conducted and favorably adjudicated a
      background investigation.  The COTR will inform the contractor of the location and time to obtain a credential.


      This clause must be included in all subcontracts awarded by the contractor wherein subcontractor employees will have access to a facility,
      site, system, or information.

   c. Authorities
         • Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12)


         • Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-05-24


         • The Crime Control Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, subtitle E, as amended by Public Law 102-190 (for childcare center security
           requirements)


         • Executive Orders 10450 and 12968 and Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 731, 732 and 736 (for positions assigned a
           “National Security” designation)


   d. Background Investigation and Adjudication Process
      The background investigation and adjudication processes are compliant with 5 CFR 731.

   e. Required Forms
      All contractor employees who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit to SSA the following
      forms.  Some of the forms are available electronically (see website addresses below):

         • 2 Forms FD-258, Applicant Fingerprint Chart (The CO will provide the FD-258 forms at the time of the contract award.)
           NOTE: The contractor will be responsible for obtaining and providing acceptable fingerprints for use by SSA.  Regardless of the
           method used to fingerprint employees (electronic capture or ink) the only acceptable fingerprint card is the FD-258.


         • Optional Form 306, Declaration for Federal Employment
                     http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/of.asp

         • Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)  Authorization Form
                    http://www.opm.gov/extra/investigate/fin-1998/fin9802.asp


         • If the employee is not a U.S. Citizen, the employee must provide SSA with a legible photocopy of his or her work authorization permit
           and social security card.


        In addition to the forms above, every employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information must complete and submit
        ONE of the following forms:

         • Standard Form (SF) 85 for risk level 1 (Public Trust, Low Risk/Non-Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 85P for sensitivity levels 5 or 6  (Public Trust, Moderate or High Risk),  http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp


         • Standard Form (SF) 86 for sensitivity levels 2,  3 or  4  (National Security, Non-Critical, Critical –Sensitive or Special
           Sensitive), http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.asp

      The risk designation associated with the work that the particular individual will be performing will determine which form the individual
      must complete.  For this contract, the following risk designation(s) apply:




      Labor Category                                                          Risk Designation
      All Employees                                      Level 1C


   f. Forms Completion 
      The contractor must ensure that all forms are fully completed and signed prior to submission to SSA.  The contractor must ensure that the
      fingerprint charts and all forms are printed legibly or typed in black ink and all signatures are in black ink.  The contractor must also
      ensure there are no “breaks” in residences or employment.  SSA requires complete addresses, including zip codes and phone numbers.


   g. Forms Submission
      The contractor shall submit a cover sheet, including the contract number, name, and social security number of all contract employees for
      whom they are requesting a suitability determination, along with completed forms and one FD-258 fingerprint chart to:


      SSA
      CPSPM Security and Suitability Team
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


      Simultaneously, the contractor must submit a copy of the cover sheet to the COTR.


      The contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to the date work is to begin.  For new contract employees who will need
      access to an SSA facility, site, information, or system, the contractor must submit these forms at least 15 days prior to beginning work
      under the contract.


   h. Preliminary Suitability Determination
      A Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprint check will be used as part of the basis for making a preliminary suitability determination.
      If SSA makes a favorable preliminary suitability determination, the individual may perform under the contract pending SSA’s final
      suitability determination.  CPSPM will notify contractors, with carbon copy (cc) notifications sent to both the COTR and CO, of the results
      of these determinations.


      SSA requires each contractor employee who will have access to a facility, site, system, or information to present two forms of
      identification after the contractor employee receives notification of a preliminary suitability determination but prior to beginning work
      under the contract.  In order for SSA to continue the background investigation process and enroll the contractor employee in the PIV
      credentialing process, at least one of the forms of identification must be a Government-issued photo ID (please see Employment Eligibility
      Verification, I-9, for acceptable forms of ID).


   i. Final Suitability Determination
      Final suitability determinations are made in approximately 45-90 business days after submittal of the completed forms to CPSPM.  If CPSPM
      determines that any employee is unsuitable, the COTR, CO, and contractor will be notified and SSA will revoke the employee’s physical and
      logical access.  The contractor must confirm receipt of the revocation within one business day.


      A contractor is not entitled to an equitable adjustment of the contract as a result of SSA making an unfavorable suitability determination
      on contractor employees.  Additionally, if SSA determines that the number or percentage of unfavorable determinations make successful
      contract performance unlikely, SSA may terminate the contract for cause or default.

   j. Exceptions
      The COTR may request an exception to the normal background investigation process for emergency situations when access to a facility or site
      is needed, but where access to information systems or programmatic information is not required.  This request must be directed to CPSPM.
      COTRs may request an exception by sending an email to dchr.ope.hspd12appeals@ssa.gov.  If CPSPM grants temporary access, that temporary
      access will apply only for the period specified by CPSPM and only for the specific contract employee(s) identified by the COTR.  CPSPM
      expects that it will rarely grant exceptions.

   k. Contractor Notification to Government
      The contractor shall notify the COTR (who will notify CPSPM and the CO) within one business day if an employee is arrested or charged with
      a crime during the term of this contract, or if there is any other change in the employee’s status (e.g., the employee leaves the company;
      the employee no longer works under the contract; the employee’s alien status changes) that could impact the suitability determination for
      that individual.  The contractor must provide in that notification as much detail as possible, including, but not limited to:  employee
      name(s), contract number, the type of charge(s), if applicable, the court date, and, if available, the disposition of the charge(s).

   l. Government Control
      The Government has full control over and may grant, deny, or withhold access to a facility, site, system, or information and may require
      the COTR and contractor to remove personnel from performing under the contract for reasons related to conduct even after the individual has
      been found suitable to work on the contract (see paragraph n., below).

   m. Appeals Process for Unsuitable Determinations
      The contractor must notify the employee of any unsuitable determinations as soon as possible after receipt of such a determination.  If the
      employee would like clarification or wish to appeal an unsuitable determination, his/her request must be in writing and submitted within 30
      days of the date of the unsuitable determination.  The request can be emailed to SSA at
      dchr.ope.hspd 12 appeals@ssa.gov, or mailed to:

      Social Security Administration
      Attn:  CPSPM Suitability Program Officer
      6401 Security Boulevard
      Room 1260 Dunleavy Building
      Baltimore, MD  21235


   n. Removal From Duty

      SSA may request that the contractor immediately remove any contractor employee(s) from working under the contract based on conduct that
      occurs after a pre-screening approval or favorable suitability determination.  The contractor must comply with these requests.  The
      Government's determination may be made based on, but not limited to, incidents involving the misconduct or delinquency as set forth below:



       i. Violation of the Rules and Regulations Governing Public Buildings and Grounds, 41 Code of Federal Regulations 101-20.3.  This includes
          any local badging requirements.

      ii. Neglect of duty, including sleeping while on duty, unreasonable delays or failure to carry out assigned tasks; conducting personal
          affairs while on duty; and refusing to cooperate in upholding the integrity of SSA's security program.

     iii. Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction of any official documents or records, or concealment of
          material facts by willful omissions from official documents or records.

      iv. Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation by words or actions, or fighting.  Also,
          participating in disruptive activities, which interfere with the normal and efficient operations of the Government.

       v. Theft, vandalism, or any other criminal actions.

      vi. Selling, consuming, possession of, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or substances which produce similar effects.

     vii. Improper use of official authority or credentials.

    viii. Unauthorized use of communications equipment or Government property.

      ix. Misuse of weapon(s) or tools used in the performance of this contract.

       x. Unauthorized access to areas not required for the performance of the contract.

      xi. Unauthorized access to employees' personal property.

     xii. Violation of security procedures or regulations.

    xiii. Prior determination by SSA or other Federal agency that a contractor's employee was unsuitable.

     xiv. Unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, agency programmatic or sensitive information, or IRS Tax Return information.

      xv. Unauthorized access to an agency Automated Information System.

     xvi. Unauthorized access of information for personal gain (including, but not limited to, monetary gain), or with malicious intent.

    xvii. Not providing for the confidentiality of and protection from disclosure of information entrusted to them.  Contractor personnel are
          considered the same as Federal employees for the purposes of applying certain provisions of:

           The Privacy Act of 1974;


           The Tax Reform Act of 1976 and the Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997;


           SSA regulation 1;


           The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986; and


           Section 1106 of the Social Security Act.



