
 ‘HAFB 006:  NCIC REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS TO HOLLOMAN AFB, NM  (21 Aug 07)

CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES DELIVERING TO HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE

Subject to military security requirements and regulations, the Contractor may be re-routed to differing entry points at Holloman AFB.  During
these periods where the Contractor may be re-routed to other entry points, the contractor will not hold the Government liable for any claims
under the disputes clause of this contract/solicitation.

AFI 31-102, PHYSICAL SECURITY:  July 07

All contractors will be required to screen and monitor each employee and potential employee to identify those who may pose a potential threat to
the health, safety, security, general well-being, or operational mission of the installation and its population.  Examples of conditions that
may identify employees or potential employees as a threat to the installation include, but are not limited to, substantial misconduct,
convictions or arrests for violent behavior, dishonesty or sexually aberrant behavior.  Each contractor shall notify the contracting officer of
any reason or condition that identifies an employee or potential employee as a potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-
being, or operational mission of the installation and its population.  No contractor shall employ any employee or potential employee identified
by the contractor or the contracting officer as a potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-being, or operational mission
of the installation and its population in the performance of any contract awarded by Holloman Air Force Base.

Important Notice Concerning Contractor Access to Holloman AFB, NM

Visit Access Request (VAR), Holloman AFB, NM

For contracts awarded/administered by the 49th Contracting Squadron.

Request that a visitor pass be issued to all contractor employees to gain access to Holloman AFB, NM.  All employees will be briefed on and
shall comply with Holloman AFB security requirements.  All employees will sign the government provided consent form authorizing the U.S.
Government (United States Air Force) to conduct a background check to confirm their eligibility or ineligibility to gain access to Holloman AFB,
New Mexico.  The VAR will consist of employees FULL Name, Date of Birth, Social Security Number, Place of Birth and Citizenship.  The format for
a Visit Access Request Form will be provided upon request.

 Delivery drivers will provide a bill of lading at the time of pass issuance; passes will not exceed 6 hours.  Routine deliveries require the
contractor add the driver(s) to a VAR to undergo the appropriate background check. 

Contractor employees shall report to the 49 SFS Pass and Registration Office (bldg 1) with photo identification issued by a federal/state
activity.  Contractor employees requesting to operate a contractor or privately owned vehicle on the installation shall provide a valid driver’s
license, current vehicle registration, and proof of current vehicle insurance or car rental agreement.  Contractor personnel requesting to
operate a motorcycle on Holloman AFB shall provide proof they have completed a motorcycle safety course (i.e. motorcycle safety course
certificate/card) prior to being authorized to ride on the installation.

End of HAFB 006 Statement

HAFB 009 – WIDE AREA WORKFLOW STATEMENT (AUG 2007)

In order to receive awards from the 49th Contracting Squadron at Holloman AFB, New Mexico, you must now use an E-Invoicing system called Wide
Area Work Flow (WAWF).

WAWF is a web-based tool for the processing of invoices/receiving reports.  This will bring about major changes in the amount of time it takes
to process these documents making payment much faster.  The web site for this system is https://wawf.eb.mil.  There are no charges to use WAWF.
All questions relating to system setup and vendor training can be directed to the help desk at Ogden.  Their number is 1-866-618-5988.

Notice to Contractor and billing/invoicing personnel:
Any invoice submitted must be entered into WAWF exactly as the contract line items are identified in this award.  Adding or removing line items,
and higher quantities than listed will result in delays in payment.  If shipping was included in the line items prices, the invoice must reflect
the same. Shipping may not be billed as a separate line item unless specifically identified in the award. Failure to invoice correctly will
result in rejection at the payment office and require resubmission through WAWF.

THE FOLLOWING CODES WILL BE REQUIRED TO ROUTE YOUR INVOICES
AND ADDITIONAL E-MAILS CORRECTLY THROUGH WAWF.
* Required Fields in WAWF

TYPE OF INVOICE SUBMISSION:
:

            Invoice
      (Creates Stand Alone Invoice)

       __   Invoice and Receiving Report (Combo)
      [Creates two documents, an Invoice and a Receiving Report, within one data entry session (combo). Creating both documents at the same time,
      rather than separately, is recommended.]

      X     Invoice as 2-in-1 (Services Only)
      [Creates an Invoice 2-in-1, which is a document that serves as both an invoice and a certificate of performance for services rendered
      (also called an "acceptance report").]

            Construction Invoice
      (Creates a Construction Payment Invoice from a contract for construction.  Both an Inspector and a Contracting Officer must review and
      accept).


    X       Cage Code*:  __________

    X       Pay DoDAAC*: F67100

            Issue By DoDAAC: FA4801

    X       Admin DoDAAC*: FA4801

            Inspect By:                   Ext.: Leave Blank

       Contracting Officer*: FA4801       Ext: Leave Blank
 

        X        Ship To Code*:           F2E3C1     Ext.:  Leave Blank

Contractor: WAWF will prompt asking for "additional e-mail submissions" after clicking "SIGNATURE"
The following E-Mail addresses MUST be input in order to prevent delays in processing:

Buyer/Administrator :  niki.porter@holloman.af.mil

Contracting Officer:    mary.hoelscher@holloman.af.mil


The paying office DoDAAC and mailing address can be located on front of your award.  You can easily track your payment information on the DFAS
web site at http://www.dfas.mil/money/vendor.  Your purchase order/contract number or invoice will be required to inquire status of your
payment.  Most Holloman orders are non-MOCAS, use the options listed under there.

Questions concerning payment should be directed to the Defense Finance Accounting Services (DFAS) Limestone at 1-800-390-5620 or 1-800-337-0371
or faxed to 1-207-328-1660.  Please have your order number and invoice number ready when calling about payment status.  If your paying office is
other than Limestone, contact your contract administrator for the customer services phone/fax numbers.

End of HAFB 009 Statement


HAFB 012 - HAFB CELL PHONE POLICY (31 Aug 2006)

MANDATORY:  Contractor personnel shall adhere to the base cell phone policy.  Operators of vehicles on a Department of Defense
(DoD) installation, such as Holloman AFB, NM, will not use cell phones unless the vehicle is safely parked or unless they are using a hands-free
device.  The wearing of any other portable headphones, earphones, or other listening devices (except for hands-free cellular phones) while
operating a motor vehicle is prohibited. Penalty:  $25 fine (+$25 fee).

End of HAFB 012 Statement


