

                                                             STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)


Title: Validation of Voting Systems Usability and Accessibility Test Methods


I. Background Information

Enacted by Congress in October 2002, the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) legislation gives the Commerce Department's National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) a key role in helping realize nationwide improvements in voting systems.  NIST's Information Technology
Laboratory (ITL) is coordinating the agency's HAVA efforts through its expertise in areas such as computer security, laboratory accreditation
procedures, and usability.

The HAVA created an Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to oversee voting standards work. Reporting to the EAC is the Technical Guidelines
Development Committee (TGDC), which makes recommendations on voluntary standards and guidelines related to voting equipment.

NIST is providing technical and administrative support to the TGDC.  The EAC adopted a new set of Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG) in
December 2005.  The EAC asked the TGDC and NIST to develop a more comprehensive and re-organized version of the VVSG.  A complete draft of this
updated version was delivered to the EAC in the summer of 2007.

NIST is also developing a suite of consistent public conformance tests for the VVSG Recommendations to be used as part of the EAC's Testing and
Certification Program. Included in these draft test suites are procedures for evaluating the usability and accessibility of voting systems by
voters and poll workers.  These are in draft form and have not been validated.

For additional background information, see:
   1. http://vote.nist.gov
   2. http://vote.nist.gov/PublicHearingsandMeetings.html, especially the March and May 2007 Plenary meetings for the Draft Voluntary Voting
      System Guidelines and the HFP presentations.
   3. "NIST Special Publication 500-256, Improving the Usability and Accessibility of Voting Systems and Products".
      http://www.nist.gov/itl/vote/upload/FinalHumanFactorsReport5-04.pdf
   4. Whitney Quesenbery et al, "Defining a Summative Usability Test for Voting Systems", Usability Professions Association, September 2004.
      http://www.upassoc.org/upa_projects/voting_and_usability/documents/voting_summative_test.pdf
   5. NIST preliminary report on “User-Based Conformance Test for the Usability of Voting Equipment”, http://vote.nist.gov/032906User-
      BasedConfTesting3-10-06.doc
   6. NIST preliminary report on “Human Performance Metrics for Voting Equipment”, http://www.nist.gov/itl/vote/upload/032906performance-metrics3-
      10-06.pdf
   7. NIST test methods for VVSG 2.0 http://www.nist.gov/itl/vote/voting-system-test-suites.cfm



II. Objective of this Procurement

The Contractor shall accomplish the following:


    • Test two (2) voting systems against the VVSG 2.0 Chapter 3 design and determine pass or fail for each requirement using the NIST draft test
      methods.
    • Test the Accessibility throughout the Voting Session requirement on 2 voting systems using the usability test as described in the NIST
      draft test methods.  This is a performance test.
    • Report all data and procedure notes and document issues and problems with the test methods and suggest improvements.


III. Scope of Work

The Contractor shall provide assistance to validate test methods for the VVSG 2.0 (Recommended or Next Iteration VVSG)  that test conformance
to VVSG 2.0 Chapter 3 usability and accessible design requirements and the End-to-End Accessibility (Accessibility throughout the voting
session) performance requirement. The Contractor shall verify test method procedures, data collection, and reporting for usability requirements
in the VVSG 2.0.

The Contractor shall perform usability testing research to support the development of performance requirements for accessible voting systems.
The Contractor shall provide testing sites and participants for the usability testing and associated data collection.  The Contractor shall
provide detailed documentation of the tests, data collected, and statistical analysis.
IV. Specific Tasks/Deliverables

The Contractor shall provide all labor, supervision, materials, equipment, and facilities (unless otherwise stated herein) to complete the
following tasks:

Note: Tasks 1 and 2 shall be performed concurrently, and the associated deliverables may be submitted concurrently, according to the due dates
given.

Task 1: Test two (2) voting systems against the VVSG 2.0 Chapter 3 design and determine pass or fail for each requirement using the NIST draft
test methods.

This task shall include the following:
   a) Become familiar with the requirements in the VVSG Recommendations
   b) Review the usability and accessibility voting system test methods
   c) Conducting hands-on testing of the two voting systems from the set of voting systems at NIST as chosen by the contractor using two (2)
      independent teams. Independent teams are required for the validation to be legitimate.

Task 1 Deliverables/Due Dates:
   a) Bi-weekly report delivered to the COTR to include recommendations on the voting systems chosen, progress information, and review of the
      usability and accessibility test methods.
   b) Raw data from the results of the hands-on testing conducted; Delivered to the NIST Technical Information Contact (TIC) no later than 6
      months after award
   c) Final Task 1 Report to include the following; Delivered to the TIC no later than 7 months after award:
      i. Were there any points that were unclear, ambiguous, or questionable? If so, what were the issues?

     ii. Are there steps that could be eliminated without negatively affecting the validity of the test and the reliability of the data?

    iii. Are there steps that should be added to increase the validity of the test and reliability of the data without adding major costs? If
         so, what are the steps?

     iv. How well did the procedures describe the logistics of running the tests? What are the gaps? What was confusing, ambiguous, or
         questionable?

      v. What else would make the documentation of the method easier to use?

     vi. What else would make the test procedures and protocols easier to use?

    vii. What else would make the templates for data collection and reporting easier to use?



Task 2: Test the Accessibility throughout the Voting Session requirement on two (2) voting systems using the usability test as described in the
NIST draft test methods.  This is a performance test.

This task shall include:
   a) Review the test protocol for the voting systems that were chosen by the contractor.
   b) Work with NIST TIC to determine Human Subject Studies and Paperwork Reduction Act Requirements.
   c) Conduct the end-to-end accessibility test of the two (2) voting systems, with the two (2) independent teams..


Task 2 Deliverables/Due Dates:
   a) Bi-weekly report delivered to the COTR to include recommendations on the voting systems chosen, progress information, and review of the
      usability and accessibility test methods.
   b) Human Subject Studies and Paperwork Reduction Act documents in NIST-required format; Delivered to the TIC no later than 2.5 months after
      award.
   c) Raw data from the results of the hands-on testing; Delivered to the TIC no later than 10 months after award.

Task 3: Report all data and procedure notes and document issues and problems of repeatability with the test methods and suggest improvements.

This task shall include:
a) Analyze all data and report all findings, observations, notes, and analysis.

Task 3 Deliverables/Due Dates:
   a) Final Report to include questions, issues, and recommended changes to the test procedures and protocol; Delivered to the TIC no later than
      11 months after award.


VI. Period of Performance and Place of Performance

Period of Performance is the effective date of award through 12 months.
Work shall be completed at the contractor’s facility.

VII. Inspection and Acceptance Criteria


As duties and responsibilities are completed, the Contractor shall request review and inspection by the NIST TIC.  Tasks completed in an
unacceptable manner may require corrective action by the Contractor.  Within 5 business days of receipt of reports, the NIST TIC shall provide
the Contractor of any required revisions or deliverable acceptance. The contractor shall then submit the revised deliverable within 7 calendar
days from receipt of TIC comments.


VIII. Government Furnished Property and Responsibilities

The Government will provide to the Contractor through the NIST TIC:

   1. All voting equipment needed for the planning and usability testing in Task 1 and Task 2


   2. All details of NIST test method metrics, test materials, test data, benchmark data, and statistical analyses from previous investigations.

   3. Access to the NIST campus for meetings.

IX. Risk Level

The designated risk level for this requirement is Low Risk.

X. Invoices

The Contractor may submit an invoice each month based on percent of satisfactory work completed on any or all tasks.

 XI. Travel

Travel shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Travel regulation.  The Contractor shall not exceed funding for travel as specified in
this contract.


XII. Contractor’s Minimum Qualifications

The contractor shall have available facilities, equipment, and personnel appropriate for the performance of each test method. Also, the
contractor must have:

    • Knowledge of human factors, usability testing, usability evaluation methods and metrics

    • Experience with usability testing devices (as opposed to web sites) and documentation

