<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FGraphicArtcombinedsynopsissolicitation.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FGraphicArtcombinedsynopsissolicitation.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>Evaluation

Provision at 52.212-2 -- Evaluation -- Commercial Items. (Jan 1999) The Government will award a Purchase Order resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: 

Technical Capability: 
Offerors must demonstrate an understanding of the performance requirements and an ability to execute them in accordance with the Statement of Work. In evaluating technical capability, the Government will evaluate the offeror's understanding of the work and soundness of their approach to specifically include an offeror's ability to provide the required services necessary to successfully execute the SOW requirements. In evaluating the offeror's technical capability, the Government will evaluate the offeror's understanding of the complete scope and complexity of performance requirements as it relates to the proposed skill mix and level of effort. This will be evaluated as a measure of the Government's confidence in the offeror's ability to plan for, manage, and staff the requirement.

Submissions for technical proposals (resumes) shall not exceed ten (10) pages excluding title pages, table of contents, and graphics.

Technical Factors include

Proven skill (please provide demo reel) in the following software: 

Cinema 4D R14 Studio
After Effects
Photoshop
Illustrator
Element 3D
Optical Flares
Zaxwerks Invigorator
Red Giant Trapcode Suite
Garage Band



Proven previous experience working on a television broadcast in a competitive market under deadline pressure. Experience in creating graphics for entertainment programming desired. 



Proven ability to not just execute ideas but be able to perform the function of an art director by coming up with the concept of graphic design for particular programs.

Past Performance: 
Offerors must demonstrate proof of past performance in work related to this requirement. 

Price (non-technical factor):
The offeror shall provide a written price proposal. Prices for services will be for each period of performance are to be labor hours with firm fixed rates and per assignment basis.  A Price Proposal that states the Offeror's proposed annual Total Price based on 2,080 hours work-years that will be negotiated with the BBG.

The price evaluation will document for the offers evaluated the completeness, and reasonableness of the proposed price.  Incomplete or unreasonable offers shall be rejected and eliminated from further consideration.  A single award will result from this evaluation.    

Basis for Award
The procurement is being conducted under FAR Part 13. The award will be made to the vendor(s)/contractor(s) whose offer is determined to be the best overall value to the Government, technical, price and other non-cost factors will be considered.  Best value is defined as the expected outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation, provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement, in accordance with FAR 2.101.

The Government reserves the right to make a selection based upon the initial proposal submissions so the offeror should submit its best terms in the initial proposal. The Government may also determine to make no award.

A single offeror will be selected who is deemed responsible in accordance with FAR 9.104-1 and whose offer provides the Government with a best value solution.

Broadcasting Board of Governors

BBG50-Q-13-00014



TV Graphic Art Design Services Blanket Purchase Agreement

Agency: VOA

Office: Office of Contracts



Notice Type: Combined/Synopsis/Solicitation

Posted Date: July 1, 2013

Response Date: July 8, 2013 12:00 pm Eastern

Archive Policy: Automatic, 15 days after response date

Archive date: July 23, 2013 2013

Classification Code: R—Professional, administrative, and management support services

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This combined synopsis/solicitation is issued as a Request for Proposals (RFP) to establish Blanket Purchase Agreement. There will be no guaranteed minimum quantities purchased and the Government will be obligated only to the extent of authorized calls placed against the resulting Agreement.  The Government intends to award one Blanket Purchase Agreement; however, the Government reserves the right not to award any Blanket Purchase Agreement.  Any resultant Blanket Purchase Agreement will be for one year in duration.  

The Broadcasting Board of Governors, Office of Contracts intends to establish a Blanket Purchase Agreement for TV Graphic Art Designer services as described in further detail below for the South Asia Division (Urdu Services) in Washington D.C. see attachment A.  This acquisition is being issued under the authority of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 13. 

SAM: System for Award Management (SAM) applies to this procurement. You must be registered in SAM in order to be eligible to receive an award from this solicitation. Information on SAM registration and annual confirmation requirements may be obtained via the Internet at http://www.sam.gov. Prospective contractors must be registered in SAM database prior to award. Lack of registration in SAM database will make an offeror ineligible for award. CONTRACTORS MUST COMPLY WITH FAR 52.204-99 System for Award Management (SAM) Registration (August 2012) (DEVIATION).

NAICS Code: The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541430 with a small business size standard of $7,000,000.00 in average annual receipts for the past 3 years. Please identify your business size in your response based upon this standard. This requirement will be a 100% Total Small Business.

BPA Period of Performance: 
July 15, 2013 thru July 14, 2014
Contract Type: 
Firm- Fixed Price 

Place of Performance: 

Broadcasting Board of Governors

South Asia Division (Urdu Service)

330 Independence Ave SW 

Cohen Building 

Washington, D.C.  20237

Time of Performance:

VOA is a 24/7 news/ program operation and the schedule will vary depending on the need of the government.  Monday thru Friday for 8 hours a daily with a reporting time between 7am and 8am that will be agreed upon at the time of award.  Subject to change and weekends may be required based on the needs of the government. 

Applicable Clauses:

**52.252-1 -- Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998). This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. 
*FAR clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition.
Applicable Provisions:  See Attached



Proposal Submission: 

Interested independent contractors are required to submit two (2) separate written documents (proposals) to the BBG. 



A Price Proposal that states the Offeror's proposed annual Total Price based on a 2,080 hours work-year that will be negotiated with the BBG.



Technical Proposal (Resume) that states the Offeror's resume/curriculum vitae and evidence of the Offeror's pertinent past performance that can be easily and quickly validated by the BBG. Dates (months/years) and locations for all field experience must also be detailed. Please submit samples of work



Copy of US Citizenship, work permit, photo ID and/or visa.



References (three) 



Copy of active CCR Registration in SAM. HTTPS://www.uscontractorregistration.com



Offerors shall include completed copy of the prevision at FAR Subpart 52.212-3 (Offeror Representations and Certifications – Commercial Items) with its offer.  This provision can be found at the following website https://www.acquisition.gov/Far/; if requested by an offeror, a copy of FAR subpart 52.212-3 can be obtained by contacting the Contracting Officer.



To ensure consideration for the intended position, please reference the solicitation number on your proposal.


Proposal must be submitted electronically to . The due date is Monday, July 8, 2013 at 12PM EST. All proposals as well as inquiries should be sent electronically to J.R. Hill @ 

Contracting Office Address: 

330 C St. SW

Switzer Bldg.  Rm. 4300 
Washington DC 20237 
United States 



Primary Point of Contact: 

Contracting Officer

J.R. Hill



202.382.7846
                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK
                                                                TV Graphic Artist
                                                         South Asia Division, Urdu Service
                                                                 Urdu TV Program

1.0 Introduction
The Voice of America’s South Asia Division, Urdu service has a requirement for a talent vendor  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Contractor”)  to
provide services as described below.  The work shall be performed during an eight-hour period on a daily basis.  The contractor shall be paid  on
an hourly basis. In addition, the Government will reimburse the Contractor for actual expenses as stated  below.   The  Contractor’s  rate  shall
include overhead (e.g., health insurance), G&A, and profit.  The Contractor shall be responsible for meeting all obligations under  the  term  of
this contract.  The contractor shall at all times adhere to the standards and principles in the Voice of  America  Journalistic  Code  and  shall
request pre-approval before engaging in outside speaking and writing that might give rise to an actual or perceived violation of the Code.

2.0 Scope of Work
The Contractor shall perform the following work at the IBB Voice of America Headquarters Building (330 Independence Ave, SW) unless otherwise
mutually agreed to by the Contracting Officer:

2.1 Contractor shall submit to the Government for acceptance:

2.1.1 Contractor shall design, edit, and produce 2-D and 3-D and motion graphics for Urdu Television programs.  Contractor shall be able to
operate independently to create high-quality television motion graphics – which include composite video, graphics, character generated text
(Chyron etc.), and music, etc.

2.1.2 Contractor shall read and interpolate video levels on a vector scope and must have full understanding of basic RGB component, high
definition, NTSC RS 170a and CCR-601 digital video signals that are the standard broadcast signals used in the Agency’s Television Broadcast
Design Center.

2.1.3 Contractor shall design 3-D and motion graphics using PC and Mac computer platforms and various software programs to include, but not
limited to, Cinema 4-D, After Effects, Zaxwerks, Photoshop, Illustrator, Final Cut Pro, and Premiere Pro.

3.0 BPA Duration: One year 07/15/2013- 07/14/2014

4.0 Time of Performance: VOA is a 24/7 news/ program operation and the schedule will vary depending on the need of the government. Normal duty
hours will be            (Monday through Friday, subject to change). Weekends may be required based on the needs of the government.

5.0 Deliverables: Are to be submitted to the COR for acceptance in accordance with VOA standards.  The time of delivery will be determined by
the COR based on the needs of the government.

6.0 GENERAL INFORMATION:

6.1 FACILITY and EQUIPMENT:  The VOA/IBB shall provide the contractor a work area, computer, and telephone needed to operate within Cohen
Building, Washington D.C.  Government computers and equipment will be used for official use only.

6.2 The contractor is authorized to edit and produce graphics off-site on their own equipment, in which case the contractor will make sure their
work for VOA Urdu TV will be submitted within a suitable time frame  create a back-up directory for  the VOA Graphics Unit to access and
replication.


6.3 HOLIDAYS: The contractor maybe required to provide services on Federal holidays.

6.4 CONTRACTOR TRAVEL: In the event it is required, contractor travel shall be in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations. Contractor is
subject to lodging at an acceptable lodging as stated in the FTR. Invoiced costs of travel shall be based on actual expenditures and subject to
the FTR and per diem rules for reimbursement. Travel costs will be reported on the monthly invoices. All contractor travel shall be pre-approved
by the COR.

6.5 ACCESS TO FACILITY:

6.5.1 Building Access/ID Card: Contractor shall enter the main entrance of Cohen Building and report to the Security Manager, and submit a
request for a VOA ID card via the Contractor Verification System (CVS). Upon verification and notification of an approved application, the
contractor will report to the Security Managers office for issuance of an ID Card. Days and hours available Monday & Wednesday 9am to 3pm.  This
ID card must be carried at all times while performing duties and must be used to access Cohen Building.

6.5.2 If the contractor fails to pass a security background check, the contract will be terminated for default.


                                                           - End of Statement of Work -
