DESCRIPTION OF REQUIREMENT: MacDill AFB requires access to polling data obtained in calendar year 2005-2010 and subsequent periods by Gallup World PollTM Database and Knowledge System Support to Theater Strategy Assessment, (TSA), and Model Refinement to conduct and collect wide-ranging poll data for the 130 countries within and outside the United States Central Command, (USCENTCOM), Area of Responsibility, and (AOR). This information gives specific insight into population attitudes in the USCENTCOM Area of Responsibility (AOR) regarding such topics as national leadership, law and order, availability of food and shelter, availability of employment opportunities, general health and well-being, and opportunity for citizen engagement in self and national determination. We also require certain demographic data on the population polled which gives insight into current economic status, religious preference, ethnic origin, level of literacy, and educational background. Access to polling data on as many countries as possible from outside the USCENTCOM AOR is also necessary for comparative analysis purposes to properly value results from the USCENTCOM AOR and to show interaction with other areas of immediate concern that directly impact the USCENTCOM AOR. We require access to the above polling data using a statistical analysis software interface that allows for quantitative analysis of trends and interactions between different data streams for up to 12 analysts simultaneously. We require the ability to export key data from the dataset to MS Excel for incorporation into a Value Focused Thinking strategic assessment model and to create visual representations of data trends for briefings to senior decision makers. We require training for analysts that will be using the statistical analysis software interface. This access is for one year to poll data for the Gallup World Poll. The online license includes continued access to Gallup's 2005-2006 130-country survey, plus expanded access to Gallup's 2007 100-country survey, and continuous updates to the 2009/2010 data set as new polling is conducted over the life of the license. This access is necessary to support strategic level assessments related to the Global War on Terror, Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, (WMD) the USCENTOM Theater Strategy, and the USCENTCOM Theater Campaign Plan (required by the Guidance for Employment of the Force). In this requirement, the contractor shall provide strictly non-personal services and shall work as an independent contractor not subject to the supervision and control of the Government. Technical Requirements a. This requirement will begin on 30 Sep 2010 and end on 29 Sep 2011. b. The contractor shall meet with Government representatives within 10 workdays after receipt of funding to contract holder for a contractor Kick-Off meeting to review task order requirements. c. The Contractor shall perform the following Tasks: 1) Provide polling data to the U.S. Central Command (USCENTCOM). Specifically: Access to and full use of the Gallup World Poll: (a) Provide a license to on-line access for one year to poll data for The Gallup Organization's 2007 100-country survey, 2005/2006 130-country survey, and 2008/2009/2010 poll data as it becomes available ("Licensed Product"). (b) Agree that all "deliverable products", (a deliverable product shall mean any work based on or developed from the Licensed Product), shall become the property of the United States Government. A deliverable consists of any modification wherein material is recast, transformed, or adapted, including (but not limited to) reports, memoranda, analyses, documentation and drawings which as a whole, represents an original work of authorship whether or not the original work of authorship is a distinguishable variation. All deliverable products shall have an unlimited unrestricted copyright for electronic and hard copy dissemination as determined by the United States Government.

(c) Provide Subject Matter Expertise and Analyst support for primary users with access to the World Poll database. Support will include an overview of the basic usage of SPSS software, including: 1. Running frequencies and cross tabs, recoding variables to make them relevant to the analysis at hand, selecting specific countries in the dataset for analysis, and creating tables that can break the data down by demographic groups of interest. 2. Training shall also familiarize the user with the Q-Tag system including all demographic variables, the core and regional questionnaires, and the Gallup World Poll indexes and methodology for calculation of the indexes. 3. Subject Matter Expertise and Analyst support will also include in-depth analysis of World Poll data providing trended analysis from 2005/2006 data to present data. (d) Provide 120 hours of technical support (on-site and reach-back) for the primary users; the hours can be used across the one-year length of the contract in the way that works best for USCENTCOM. (e) Have an Engagement Manager acting as the primary point of contact with the client. The Engagement Manager will coordinate all aspects of service to the client and the various internal customers at USCENTCOM who hold licenses and need access to both on-site training and reach-back support. Special Requirements Contractors will comply with all USCENTCOM and MacDill AFB, FL rules and regulations accordingly. Contractors providing training to USCENTCOM personnel shall have a current Secret Security Clearance. USCENTCOM will facilitate alternate training arrangements of analysts upon lack of required clearances. Training will be performed at the Headquarters, MacDill AFB, FL, building 540 or USCENTCOM Forward HQ-current location, Camp As-Saliyah, Qatar. This location may change without notice. Duty hours are 7:00am ­ 5:00pm except Federal holidays, unless mission dictates differently. Building access will be limited to core hours of 8:00am ­ 4:00pm. USCENTCOM will be bill at cost for travel for Contractor training support according to the Joint Travel Federal Regulations. Rental car is authorized. Contractors shall provide an estimated cost of travel two weeks prior to their travel broken down by per diem and travel. Contractors shall forward a copy of paid travel claims within one week of travel to Mrs. Charris James, USCENTCOM/CCJ8-AR.

