--~
"

'

STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW) AIRMAN AND FAMILY READINESS CENTER NETWORK SUPPORT SERVICES TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE, CALIFORNIA

1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES/GENERAL

INFORMATION

The required services support the Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) Commercial Network employed throughout the Discovery Center and all training classrooms within the Center. The contractor shall perform services as described in this SOW. Projects will involve creating innovative technological solutions to include but not limited to computer-based training, video productions to support A&FRC programs at newcomers' orientation, relocation assistance, discovery center, and training classrooms. The contractor must possess knowledge of how technological solutions can be applied in a social services setting. The contractor must possess clear understanding of computer hardware, software, and network systems communications components. The terms will, must and shall are used interchangeably throughout this SOW. 2. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE This contract for the Basic Year will start on 28 July 2010 through 27 July 2011. Option Year I will start 28 July 2011 through 27 July 2012. Option Year 2 will start 28 July 2012 through 27 July 2013. A. Scope of Responsibility: 1. Web-Based Application Development for the A&FRC'S Commercial Network: Contractor shall develop new and update existing applications in support of A&FRC operations. Applications will be developed using local resources when possible, and outsourcing expertise including COTS (commercial of the shelf) applications and programs. Contractor must be familiar with all emerging technologies to ensure the A&FRC is always developing on the latest industry standard, within the DoD/Air Force framework. 2. Technical Design for A&FRC Commercial Network: Contractor must possess knowledge, skills and abilities of design concepts and capability to conduct thorough design needs analysis develop deSIgns that meet A&FRC requirements, address scalability, deployment issues, and prepare design documents. Contractor will document and track changes as applicable. 3. Technical Support for A&FRC Commercial Network: Contractor must be able to provide technical expertise and product knowledge, follow logical process for problem identification and resolution, ask questions to clarify and verify information, and provide clear, understandable explanations to ensure adherence to A&FRC practices and standards. Contractor will work with program managers from all teams to provide technical solutions to improve services. Provide services for visiting organizations to utilize the facility and AV equipment and computers. 4. Technical Training for A&FRC personnel on use of Commercial Network: Contractor must be able to provide technical training to non-technical A&FRC staff. Contractor must be able to
I

articulate instructional delivery skills, explain technical concepts clearly, adapt material to audience needs, respond to questions and concerns, and continually evaluate training program for effectiveness. Contractor must be able to create CBT (computer based training) documents, videos, and web pages depending on needs. Contractor must be able to train users to edit documents and photos for use in classes, events, flyers and other needs of the Center users. Contractor must be conversant in web technologies for efficient delivery of content. 5. Technical Support of SOL Database: Contractor must provide technical expertise and product knowledge; follow logical process for problem identification and resolution. Contractor must be able to communicate with vendors to describe, suggest and test resolutions. Contractor will upgrade systems as necessary to accommodate hardware and software progress. 6. Technical Training for SOL Database: Contractor must be able to provide technical training to non-technical SQL database users. Contractor must be able to articulate instructional delivery skills, explain technical concepts clearly, adapt material to audience needs, respond to questions and concerns, and continually evaluate training program for effectiveness. 7. Project Management: Contractor must develop innovative project plans for the A&FRC. Contractor must be able to take concepts presented by A&FRC and apply technological solutions to bring concepts to fruition. Contractor must ensure efficient utilization of resources and complete projects on time and within budget. Contractor must also be able to estimate project costs and time of completion. 8. Managing Multiple Projects: Contractor must be able to manage multiple commitments and respond to changing demands and priorities, and allocate and utilize time efficiently and identify potential conflicts that impact commitments. Contractor must be flexible and complete work according to identified priorities. 9. Commercial Network Management: Contractor must have an understanding of network architecture, anticipate and plan for future network needs, be able to diagnose and resolve network problems, and be responsiveness to user needs. Contractor must consistently monitor network performance to minimize network downtime. a. Contractor must implement security on the commercial network, to prevent interruptions in service due to unauthorized access or installation of mal ware and Trojan software. 10. Commercial Network Programming: Contractor must possess knowledge of relevant languages and display mastery of programming tools, be able to interpret programming specifications, and write clear, readable code. Contractor must be proficient in resolving bugs and other problems and must adhere to organization coding standards. 11. Commercial Network Trouble Shooting: Contractor must possess critical thinking skills in recognizing and anticipating IT and network system problems, use fact finding and diagnostic tools to resolve issues, and be able to identify and implement optimal solutions.

2

12. Verbal Communications: Contractor must be able to communicate effectively with others, and listen to and get clarification and adapt tone and style to the situation, communicate clearly with non technical audiences and possess presentation skills. Contractor must be capable of working cross-functionally with team members, other internal organizations and technology solution holders at different levels to proactively identify program needs and design, and develop and deliver appropriate training solutions. 13. Contractor shall provide an average of 30 hours of service per week between the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., excluding Federal holidays, for a maximum of 1500 hours annually. Inclusive dates and times will be provided to the Contractor at the start of the contract. 14. Contractor shall participate in the design and implementation of information technology goals, objectives, policies, priorities, and procedures; facilitate and develop A&FRC wide Information Technology Plan (ITP); implement and develop the ITP to meet changing requirements and technologies. 15. Contractor shall coordinate and implement multi-department applications on the network, such as the E-mail system and website development and management; coordinate sharing of common software applications and data, and develop and maintain departmental applications as required. a. Develop and implement the ability to capture photos and video of classes and events of A&FRC, edit videos, audio and photos and disseminate via web or hard media, such as DVDs, podcasts, T-Tube, etc. b. Should have knowledge of AV equipment, sound systems, projectors, etc to facilitate classes, and resolve trouble with equipment quickly. This requires sufficient troubleshooting knowledge of computers, networks, and audio visual systems in a dynamic environment. c. Knowledge of Social Media, Business Intelligence, and other skills to enhance outreach and assist A&FRC to market their presence. d. Basic Graphics knowledge and ability to train users to produce graphics for print, web and posters using MS PowerPoint and MS Publisher among others. e. Knowledge to spec and enhance Content Management systems, hosted accounts, and FB groups among other existing and new unit needs. Must be proficient in web technologies and coding to create, troubleshoot and adapt content in a timely manner. 16. Contractor shall perform network system administration, monitor, analyze and resolve problems for systems with varied environments of PC-based networks and servers, oversee network growth and planning for upgrades of software/hardware environment to meet the needs ofA&FRC. 17. Contractor shall evaluate new technologies to determine applicability to organizational activities, conduct feasibility studies and prepares cost analyses and recommendations regarding IT projects, and consult in the development and enhancement ofthe website on the A&FRC network. Contractor must be familiar with or have the ability to learn to embed web technologies into Powerpoint and web pages, including audio and video. 3

18. Contractor shall coordinate installations, upgrades, backups and recovery of the over-all system, including the preparation of a disaster recovery plan on the A&FRC network. 19. Maintain and enhance guidelines for software and hardware procurement, approve, implement, and license adherence, maintains and enhance documentation and procedures for MS Office applications, and ensure applications administration procedures are developed and implemented. Contractor must keep records of software and licensing purchases, warranties, and vendor improvements initiated by the Contractor and/or direction of the A&FRC director. 3. GENERAL INFORMATION 1. Security Requirements. a. All personnel employed by the contractor in the performance of this contract, or any representative of the contractor entering the governmental installation shall abide by all security instructions and directives of Travis AFB (Refer to AFI 3l-l0l_AMC Sup TAFB Sup.) 1. Contractors are divided into two categories to ensure proper screening and to minimize installation access delays as follows: ˇ ˇ Category 1 (Cat-I) contractors are the primary and some subcontractors who are identified against a contract prior to the contract performance start date. Category 2 (Cat-2) sub-contractors and affiliate workers not previously identified against a contract prior to the contract performance start date.

2. The primary contractor will: ˇ Provide an Entry Authorization List (EAL) of all Cat-l contractors on company letterhead which includes: o Contract number. o Work site or location. o Inclusive dates ofthe contract. o Work schedule to include days of the week and time periods the contractors will be on the installation. o Employee's full name, date of birth, and last 6 numbers oftheir social security number. Advise employees on requirement for completing a Travis Fm 251, Contractor Consent for Background Check, which authorizes the government to conduct CBH (Criminal Background History Check) NCIC want/warrants and CLETS driver license history checks. Ensure all Contractor Consent for Background Check forms are complete and signed. Advise employees that badges are only valid for the purpose and person for which it was issued. Use of the badge for any other purpose or by any other person will result in the badge being confiscated by 60 SFS. Employees that misuse their badge may face revocation of

ˇ

ˇ ˇ

4

ˇ

ˇ

installation access privileges and/or barment actions. If a badge is lost, notify the respective badge issuing office immediately. Provide written notification, within one week, to the "responsible agency" of any changes in employee status. This includes, but is not limited to, the employee being fired or quitting their position with the company. Retrieve government issued personal badges from employees no longer requiring installation access, or from all employees upon termination of the contract. Badges will be turned into the respective badge issuing office.

3. The contractor and, as applicable, subcontractors, shall not employ persons for work on this contract if such employee is identified as a potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well being or operational mission of the installation and its population, nor shall the contractor or subcontractor employ persons under this contract who have an outstanding criminal warrant as identified during the Criminal Background Check (CBH) Additionally, all contractors will ensure illegal aliens are not employed and/or transported onto the installation. Violators will be held accountable and immediate action taken (Refer to AFI 31-101_ AMC Sup _TAFB Sup.) 4. Contractors shall ensure their employees and those of their subcontracts have the proper credentials allowing them to work in the United States. Employees and subcontractors later found to be undocumented or illegal aliens will be remanded to the prop~r authorities. 5. The contractor shall not be entitled to any compensation for delays or expenses associated with complying with the provisions of this special provision. Furthermore, nothing in this special provision shall excuse the contractor from proceeding with the contract as required. 6. All contractors and subcontractors when working in a Controlled, Restricted or other sensitive areas must be escorted at all times (i.e. facility cleaning personnel.) The military agency or unit responsible for the project or work is responsible for providing the escorts. The Contractor shall follow existing procedures and instructions for obtaining entrance to restricted, controlled and sensitive areas. 7. The contractor will provide Department of Justice (DOJ) Criminal History Background Checks of all personnel and provide this information to the Security Forces Squadron. Employment is contingent upon successful completion and favorable reporting of the criminal background check. 8. Criminal Convictions. Individuals will be adjudicated based on twelve (12) disqualifying criteria. Individuals whose criminal background meets any of the following twelve (12) disqualifiers shall not be allowed access to the installation: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ 5 U.S. citizenship, immigration status, or Social Security Account Number cannot be verified. Barred from entry/access to any military installation or facility. The individual is wanted by federal or civil law enforcement authorities, regardless of offense or violation. The individual's name appears on any federal agency's list for criminal behavior or terrorist activity. The individual was convicted of espionage, sabotage, treason or terrorism.

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ

The individual was incarcerated for twelve (12) months or longer within the past three (3) . years, regardless of offense or violation. The individual was convicted of a firearms or explosives violation within the past three years. The individual has been convicted of illegal possession or use of drugs/narcotics on more than one occasion within 5 years from the date access to TravisAFB is requested. The individual has been convicted of an offense involving drug trafficking, possession with intent to sell or drug distribution within 10 years from the date access to Travis AFB is requested. The individual has been convicted of a felony involving violence against a person, arson, robbery or burglary within 5 years from the date access to Travis AFB is requested. The individual is required to register as a sex offender under federal law or the applicable state law. The individual has been convicted of any crime involving indecent acts with a minor or a felony that is sexual in nature.

9. Identification Common Access (CAC) Card. The contractor and contractor employees shall obtain required CAC cards by complying with the Contractor Verification System requirements at the request of the QAP. Contractor personnel must maintain their CAC card in their possession at all times while on base and while performing their official duties. Issuance of CAC cards will be based upon submittal of a request by the contractor. The QAP is designated as the contractor's sponsor on base for the purpose of obtaining CAC cards. 10. Contractor Badge Policies: All requests for contractor badges will be submitted through the Base Contracting Office and/or the requesting agencies base point of contact. The Contracting Office or base point of contact will process the request in accordance with AFI 31-10 I_AMC Sup_TAFB Sup and approved procedures in AFI 31-101_AMC Sup_TAFB Sup) Requests should be submitted 72-hours prior to the requested date of employment. Badges will be issued for a maximum period of one year. Prior to reissuing new badges, all old badges must be returned to the issuing office for destruction. In the event a badge is lost or stolen, the badge holder must accomplish the Loss/Theft of Identification Worksheet and provide it to his/her supervisor. The supervisor of the contractor will investigate the loss and report in writing the circumstances in which the badge was lost to the issuing office, and submit a new request for badge renewal before a new badge can be reissued. 11. All agencies who execute contracts or sponsor contractors will immediately notify Security Forces, Pass and Registration when a contractor's employment has been terminated. The Agency Chief or Site Supervisors are responsible for notifying and returning the contractor's badge to the issuing office (Pass and Registration or Visitor Control depending on where pass was issued) when this occurs. At no time will a contractor contact Security Forces directly regarding badge denial; contact the agency responsible for the contract. 12. FPCONs: During Force Protection Condition (FPCON) Normal and Alpha, personnel without base issued badges must be sponsored onto the installation. During Higher FPCONs (Charlie and Delta) the base will curtail non-essential operations/functions. Access by NonEssential Contractors will be suspended as the direction ofthe Installation Commander. During 6

FPCON Bravo, Charlie and Delta, personnel without base issued identification shall be physically escorted onto the installation as mission dictates. b. Records Management. The contractor point of contact or altemate(s) will act as the Records Manger overseeing the maintenance and disposition of records generated during the contract period. The contractor shall comply with API 33-322, Records Management Program, Paragraph 7 and 10; disposition of records shall be in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) disposition schedule found at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. The Contractor shall also comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program. 4. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED SERVICES AND PROPERTY. a. The Airman & Family Readiness Center will provide mission and program guidance to the contractor, provide working space, A&FRC calendar of events, pencils, pens, filing and storage space, office equipment, telephone, and computer. b. Government points of contact for this contract will be the A&FRC Center Director, Mustak Keval, or the NCOIC MSgt Bonnie Morrow, 351 Travis Avenue, Travis APB, CA 94535-1928,424-2486.

7

Attachment Government Furnished Equipment and Software HARDWARE:
PC Compatible Computers Scanners and Printers and networked units Dell / Toshiba Laptops/Tablets HP desktops Digital Senders CAC Readers BIZ Hubs WI-FI Routers
,

SOFTWARE:
Dreamweaver Macromedia Fire Works / Photoshop / Elements Directory and File Management Utilities Access 97/2000 and 2003 /2007 Microsoft Office 97/2000 and 2003 /2007 Adobe Suite/Dreamweaver/MS Expression Studio Microsoft windows server (all versions) MS VISTA UltirnatelXP ProlWin 7 SQL Software /SQL Express COTS and Leagacv software CD/DVD duplicators Adobe Premiere/Elements or video editing WI-FI configuration & Encryption - Access point ADOBE Reader/Acrobat Svmantec Microsoft Visual Studio .NET Microsoft Advanced Server Pages.NET (ASP.NET) MS Exchange Outlook/OWA (outlook web access) WEB Browsers, I. E., and Firefox

8

