                         

 
102

 

 

4 2 2 4 103A J

 
 
2 BOTTOMOF CABLETRAY CEILING 10'-0" MOUNTED

 
 

 
 
4 1"C CEILING MOUNTED 2 J   1 4 103 2 5 LCD SCREEN 1"C 4 4 J

Projection/monitor  Locations

Portable stage

 

Dividing wall Likely control panel  locations
101 4 CEILING MOUNTED 2 J

     
 
 
4

 

LCDSCREEN

 

 
4 1"C

1 4 4 8 4 4

J

Rough Room dimensions  46' D X 32' W Divided.  46'X64' Open.  9' Ceiling  height.

 
 

4

 


                                                                Statement of Work
                                                      Audio Visual Equipment for Auditorium
                                                 140TH WING HEADQUARTERS, COANG, Buckley AFB, CO
                                                                 1 November 2013


1. Scope of Work

The 140th Wing Headquarters, Colorado Air National Guard, Buckley AFB, CO requires audio visual equipment (i.e. sound system, speakers, mikes,
projectors or screens, television monitors etc.) for an auditorium that will seat 150+ people.  The auditorium will be capable of being divided
into two separate areas at which times each room must be able to run a sound and video systems independently, however, when used as a complete
room then all attendees must be able to see and hear what is presented, simultaneously.  When considering a projector/screen versus using
television monitors keep in mind that the auditorium will have multiple windows on both the south and west walls to include a 30’ tall atrium
style section of the ceiling/roof.  The auditorium will need to have audio sound equipment that will allow for lapel/hand-held microphones,
DVDs, video files, and or music to be played and heard clearly throughout the entire space.  An integrated area up front and in the back of each
room needs to be available to plug in laptops, iPods and additional equipment as necessary.  Pending the size of the audio equipment there is a
small room located on the east side of the auditorium that can be used to store equipment. Refer to the attached picture/diagram of the
auditorium for specific size/measurements.  Remote controls are necessary in each room for the presenter or the assistant AV person to control
and change the presentation setup. All equipment and installation must be included, as well as a basic training and/or guide on how to run the
equipment after setup.  All hardware and software must be vetted through the 140th Communications Flight prior to award.  Restrictions:  1. All
hardware must have Wireless or Bluetooth capabilities disabled physically or through configuration settings.  2. IR or RF capabilities are
authorized but must be reviewed and approved by the 140th Communications Flight.  3.   Software and system drivers must be reviewed and approved
through our Information Assurance section. 4.  Spec sheets on all devices that will interface with the military network must be reviewed and
approved by 140th Communications Flight.

Questions regarding technical aspects of this bid and contractual aspects should be directed to SMSgt John Rohrer at 720-847-9435, Major Agresti
at 720-847-9558, SMSgt Herzog at 720-847-6430 (CF) or the 140th Contracting Officer (CO) Senior Master Sergeant Lisa Jobes at 720-847-9818.



2. Contract Tasks

The following tasks must be completed in performance of this contract.   Contractor must provide separate pricing for each task listed below.




3. Contractor Requirement


Safety:  The contractor, their employees and sub-contractors, are required to perform  in a safe manner as required by applicable laws and
regulations.   Contractor is to ensure all work is performed in accordance with standards established herein and per approval of Contracting
Officer Representative

Notification and Start-Up:  Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer, SMSgt Lisa Jobes, five days prior to start-up of any work.

General Operations

Site Access. This work is being performed in Building 700 which is on the corner of Aspen Street and Breckenridge Avenue.  This area will remain
in operation throughout the course of the project.  All access to or through these areas shall be coordinated with the 140th Security Forces
Squadron, or authorized representative. The Contractor may be asked to stop work and leave the area by 140th Security Forces Squadron, should
mission requirements dictate ie National Security Emergency.  Advance notice will be given as much as possible.

Debris Removal. The Contractor shall clear debris daily from the site as the work proceeds. General traffic areas in which the work is being
completed shall be kept clear at all times.

Work Schedule. Work performance will be between the hours of 0700 – 1600 Tuesday – Friday. The Performance Period for this is 10 calendar days.
Work conducted on a Monday needs to be coordinated in advance and NO work will be allowed to be performed on Saturday or Sunday.  Government
Holidays are observed for this project. The CO is to receive written confirmation 5-working days prior to the Contractor’s desired “Construction
Start Date”.  If the Contractor’s schedule is delayed for whatever reason, the Contractor shall notify the CO and a new work schedule will be
established.

Cleanup. Cleanup shall be a continuous operation.  The Contractor shall remove from the site all debris, waste, and by-products generated by the
removal/disposal operations and follow all applicable state, local, and Federal environmental statutes and regulations, including, but not
limited to, regulations promulgated under the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et seq., the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq., and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. 1801, et seq.

4. Suspension or Termination

This contract may be suspended or terminated for failure of contractor to comply with any of the conditions contained herein.



5. Site Inspection

A site visit will be held prior to biddings, wherein Contractors will be allowed question and answer to extent possible.


6. Insurance Requirements
The contractor shall carry and adhere by the Workman’s Compensation insurance on each of employees and those of subcontractors engaged at this
worksite.


7. Contract Term
The contract shall commence upon receipt of purchase order and Notice to Proceed notifications, with a performance period of 10 days.

8.  invoices
Payment shall be made upon completion of contract, and after satisfactory inspection by the Department. Invoices are to be submitted through
USAF system Wide Area Workflow (WAWF)

9. Receipt and opening of bids
Bids will be submitted via email to lisa.jobes@ang.af.mil or via fax 720-847-9136 or USPS to:

140 MSG/MSC Contracting Office
18860 E. Breckenridge Ave MS78
Buckley AFB CO 80011-9531

10.  Bid Results

Successful Bidder will be notified directly by Contracting Officer and notice of award will be made available on Federal Business Opportunities
website






                                                              END STATEMENT OF WORK

