1.

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. SOLICITATION NO.

THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION SEALED BID (IFB)

RATING

PAGE

OF

1
5. DATE ISSUED

73

6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

DTFH61-11-R-00028
7. ISSUED BY

x CODE: HAAM-20

NEGOTIATED (RFP) 8.

July 25, 2011

42-20-11007

ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Mail Drop: E65-101 Washington, DC 20590
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitation  offer and  offeror mean  bid and  bidder .

See Block #7

SOLICITATION
9.

Sealed offers in ONE original for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Mail Drop E65-101 , until August 25, 2011, 3:00 pm local time EST. An additional electronic copy shall be provided to Sarah.Khan@dot.gov

CAUTION - LATE Submission, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. A. NAME B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) C. E-MAIL ADDRESS 10. FOR INFORMATION CALL: (X)

Sarah H. Khan Sarah L. Berman

AREA 202 202

NUMBER 366-0220 366-4233
PAGE(S) (X)

EXT. Sarah.Khan@dot.gov Sarah.Berman@dot.gov
SEC DESCRIPTION PAGE(S)

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS SEC DESCRIPTION PART I - THE SCHEDULE        A B C D E F G SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA 1 2 2 13 13 3 14 16 24

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES  I CONTRACT CLAUSES 40

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.  J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 52

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS   5  REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

K L M

53 60 71

H SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS  OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8) 14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND CODE 10 Calendar Days (%) AMENDMENT NO. 20 Calendar Days (%) DATE 30 Calendar Days (%) AMENDMENT NO. Calendar Days (%) DATE

FACILITY

16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or
17. SIGNATURE 18. OFFER DATE

15B. TELEPHONE NO. AREA CODE NUMBER

EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

AWARD (To be completed by Government) 19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) ( ) 41 U.S.C. 253(c) ( CODE )

23.

SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN > (4 copies unless otherwise specified) PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

ITEM

24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

25.

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable

ST ANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR {48 CFR} 53.214(c)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 2 of 73

PART I
SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS The Contractor shall furnish all necessary facilities, materials, and personnel and shall perform all services necessary to provide non-personal technical support for the Federal Highway Administration's Highway Safety Information System (HSIS). The total estimated cost-plus fixed-fee for the performance of this contract is $(to be negotiated), which consists of the total estimated cost of $(to be negotiated), and a fixed fee of $(to be negotiated). NOTE: All travel shall be reimbursed at cost in accordance with the Travel and Per Diem clause (reference Section G). NOTE: All software and equipment purchases shall be approved in writing by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) prior to purchase. The maximum value of all equipment proposed shall not exceed $72,800. SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK INTRODUCTION In the late 1980's, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) recognized the need for a roadway-based safety data system to allow the highway safety community to better address current and emerging highway safety issues, and initiated the development of the Highway Safety Information System (HSIS). Options that were explored included the collection of additional crash data for the Highway Performance Monitoring System, the expansion of Fatal Analysis Reporting System (FARS) and National Automotive Sampling System (NASS), and the acquisition of State data. Based on the need for large samples of detailed roadway and traffic inventory information; the need to upgrade the system annually; and the need to keep the longterm data acquisition costs within budgetary constraints, it was determined that the most effective way to proceed was to develop the HSIS from data that was already being collected by State highway agencies for their own use. In the HSIS, data are acquired annually by the FHWA. The data undergoes a series of quality control checks and is prepared in a format that allows the data from the various files (accident, roadway, traffic, etc.) to be merged. Researchers then use the merged data in analyses. Instead of attempting to combine data from different States into a common format, which would result in loss of much unique information, the HSIS was developed to maintain the integrity of the individual files within each State. In addition to cost savings, this type of system provides several advantages for problem analysis. First, each State data set can be examined to determine which possess the most appropriate data variables, sample sizes, and linkages. Second, state-bystate analyses can be done using the appropriate data for each State. Even with a relatively large

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 3 of 73 database in an individual State, it is often the case that the development of relationships between safety, geometric, and operations-related factors (e.g., large truck crashes as a function of roadway design on a certain road type) cannot be adequately done due to limitations in sample sizes. Finally, there is a need to determine whether a safety relationship or problem based on one State's database can be shown to hold true for other States/jurisdictions. The initial version of the HSIS was brought on-line in 1990 and included five states ­ Illinois, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, and Utah. The participating States were selected based on a detailed review of all 50 States that examined the variety, quality, and quantity of data, and the ability to merge various files. Between 1990 and 1994, the HSIS was used successfully in over 70 safety analysis efforts. While the original system proved to be quite valuable, the use over a five-year period indicated the system to be limited in terms of factors such as geographic coverage, climate, and road type. In addition, the research that was conducted and the questions that were being asked by the HSIS customers led FHWA to recognize the need for additional special files ­ files related to intersections, interchanges, the roadside, and horizontal and vertical alignment. To help overcome these limitations, FHWA decided to expand the HSIS in 1995. In this expansion, three States were added to the system -- California, North Carolina, and Washington. These States were chosen, not only because they possess very good accident, inventory, and traffic information that could be linked together, but they also increased the geographic coverage, the quantity of data, and the variety of files available to the user. In particular, these new States brought in much needed information on roadway alignment, intersections, and interchanges. In 2004, Urban Centers were explored for addition into the HSIS. Urban Centers have specialized databases that contain have more details such as sidewalk inventories, intersection files intersections (signal timings, volumes, etc), GIS overlays, and non-motorized (pedestrian, bicycle, etc) crashes that are not available from a State Department of Transportation (DOT) database. Currently, the HSIS has State crash, roadway, and traffic data from California, Illinois, Maine, Minnesota, North Carolina, Ohio, and Washington and an Urban Center data from Charlotte, NC. Due to changes in reporting and collection practices, Michigan and Utah are no longer participating HSIS States. Since the inception of HSIS, approximately 200 safety analysis efforts have been completed with the information system. Additionally, the on-site HSIS laboratory, staffed by a manager and an analyst, has been in continuous operation, serving the data analysis needs of FHWA and its constituents. The HSIS, HSIS-II, HSIS-III, HSIS-IV, and HSIS-V were developed and have been maintained and operated by the University of North Carolina Highway Safety Research Center under research contracts with the FHWA. This follow-on contract will provide for the continued maintenance and operation of the HSIS while planning and developing the next generation of the system (HSIS-VI). The focus of this effort will be on maintaining, improving, and promoting the HSIS to ensure it meets the emerging needs of the FHWA and the highway safety community. These emerging needs include HSIS evaluation projects, projects internal to FHWA, such as the Interactive Highway Safety Design Model (IHSDM), the Pedestrian Bicycle Crash Analysis Tool (PBCAT), GIS Safety Analysis Tools, or analysis support of various Safety focus areas and topics.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 4 of 73 CONTRACT OBJECTIVES 1. To provide the technical support required to maintain and operate the HSIS from November 1, 2011 through October 31, 2016. To develop a sixth generation of HSIS (HSIS-VI) that improves the system in meeting the current and future highway safety data needs of the FHWA and the safety community.

2.

SCOPE OF WORK This study shall further operate, evaluate, enhance, and promote the HSIS. The existing system shall be maintained and additional years of accident, roadway, and traffic data shall be acquired as they become available from the participating eight States. The system maintenance will include monitoring and upgrading of the system to take advantage of state-of-the-art computer hardware and software. The continued operation of the on-site laboratory, providing data management and statistical support, shall also be undertaken. Identifying, collecting, and integrating new data files in the existing States, possibly from new States or other sources will enhance the HSIS. The HSIS shall be used to address current and future highway safety analysis issues of national importance. Activities to enhance and promote the HSIS shall be explored and implemented. DELINEATION OF CONTRACTOR TASKS In order to meet the objectives of this contract, the Contractor shall perform the following tasks: Task A - Review HSIS-V 1. Review all existing HSIS materials to become familiar with the design, operation, and use of the existing system. This review shall include: a. HSIS State Guidebooks (Volumes I and II) b. Supplementary State Documentation c. HSIS data files, merge programs, HSIS computer hardware, and software documentation d. Geographical Information System (GIS) capabilities in the HSIS laboratory e. Photolog capabilities in the HSIS laboratory f. Existing HSIS Operation and Evaluation plans g. Project log h. Publication log i. HSIS summary reports and published articles j. HSIS informational Web site: www.hsisinfo.org

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 5 of 73 2. Develop a thorough understanding of the day-to-day operation of the system through a series of meetings with the COTR, existing HSIS staff, and system users. These meetings will include the existing principal investigator, HSIS staff researchers, computer support staff, and FHWA staff who use the system. 3. Meet with all existing State and the Urban Center contacts to become familiar with the key players in each State and Urban Center, to develop a better understanding of their data, and to identify any State concerns about their continued participation in the HSIS. Task B - Develop HSIS-VI Operation Plan 1. Develop a detailed plan that covers the maintenance and operation of the HSIS for 2011 through 2016. On or before March 1, 2012 the Contractor shall submit the draft plan to the Contract Specialist. The plan shall address issues regarding the transition between HSIS-V and HSIS-VI. The plan shall build upon the existing operation plan. Deficiencies should be identified and new approaches developed. The plan shall include: a. Maintenance 1) Maintain the existing HSIS data. A listing of the existing data files and coverage can be found at the HSIS informational Web site, www.hsisinfo.org. 2) Acquire, format, and maintain the 2010 through 2015 data from each of the participating States. In addition, as of May 2011, three States were behind in processing their pre-2010 data. Data from 2009 shall be acquired and formatted for these States, under the terms of maintenance and contractual continuity. This task involves requesting the data from each State, converting the data from raw file format to SAS format to Oracle relational data base format, and conducting many quality control checks. This progress should be covered in a bi-monthly report. 3) Monitor proposed and initiated changes in the records'system, data collection policies, and data processing policies of the participating States, and develop a strategy for addressing these changes. Since the data collected by a State may change from year to year, frequent communication will be required with each of the State contacts. All changes shall be documented in the guidebooks, and translation programs shall be developed and implemented to convert the data to a common format. 4) Maintain the existing HSIS computer hardware and software listed in Section H ­ Government Furnished or Acquired Property. 5) Update and maintain the HSIS documentation. The documentation is on the HSIS Web site. This documentation includes Guidebooks for each of the participating States and Urban Center, and any other supplemental documentation. The HSIS Guidebooks are to be updated on a two-year cycle with the next update scheduled for 2012.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 6 of 73 6) Update and maintain HSIS informational Web site: www.hsisinfo.org. This includes any activities necessary to meet FHWA Web Certification (see attached FHWA Web Certification Checklist). 7) Make enhancements to HSIS. The HSIS currently has seven participating States (HSIS only has historical data from MI and UT and no longer receives data from these two states) and one Urban Center (cities/MPOs.) An example of an "enhancement" would be adding a new State's or new Urban Center's databases to HSIS. At a minimum, the State's databases would include the traffic, geometric, and crash files like the other States and these would have to be linked. Another example of an enhancement would be supplemental databases that would provide additional information regarding the roadway or specific types of crashes. b. Operation 1) Provide the overall management of the project, and the daily operation of the HSIS at Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center. As part of this effort, the Contractor shall provide on-site staffing at the FHWA's Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center, 6300 Georgetown Pike, McLean, Virginia. The Contractor is required to provide at least one full-time HSIS laboratory manager/highway safety engineer and one full-time highway research analyst (8 hours a day) during the core FHWA business hours (7:45 a.m. - 4:45 p.m.). In addition, junior level staff covering the equivalent of one full-time individual should be provided. 2) Apply the system for analyses. The primary goal of the HSIS is to use the system to address highway safety analysis issues, and present findings from research efforts at national conferences and in peer-reviewed publications. The data analysis activities will form the core of the HSIS operation. The COTR will establish the project priorities and provide the Contractor with the analysis/research efforts to complete. For each major analysis/research effort, the Contractor shall develop a work plan. Each work plan shall include: a) description of the problem being examined b) review of relevant literature c) tasks to complete the analysis d) estimate of the level of effort e) time estimate for completion NOTE: All work plans shall be submitted to the COTR for approval. COT will provide comments within 15 days. Approval of the work plans will be conducted within 30 days of submission. 3) Provide HSIS data to the highway safety community. HSIS data is available to the highway safety community for research conducted in the general public interest, which is

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 7 of 73 aimed for publication in a scientific journal or other national publication. The Contractor shall provide extract files of HSIS data to individuals/organizations that request it in the spirit of general public interest. 4) Provide HSIS data and analytical support to the FHWA Office of Safety, as well as other U.S. and State DOT data requestors requiring data relevant to addressing DOT strategic plan objectives, in support of ad hoc research needs. This shall include providing review of statistical analyses that were or will be conducted on various research activities. 5) Use HSIS with other databases such as the Fatal Analysis Reporting System (FARS), Critical Analysis Reporting Environment (CARE), GES (General Estimates System), etc., to conduct highway safety analyses to support the needs of the FHWA's Office of Safety R&D, Office of Safety, and other headquarters and field offices. The mission of the Office of Safety includes significant development and use of information to drive the FHWA safety program. The FHWA's safety program supports the use of this Contract to meet much of the data analysis mission. 6) Acquire and disseminate supplemental data sets. Activities shall encompass creating, cataloguing, documenting, analyzing, maintaining, and distributing these supplemental data sets. These may include but are not limited to: intersection data, lighting data, pavement data, motorcycle crash data and any other data sets that will improve understanding of the interaction between roadway elements and crashes. These supplemental data sets should further understanding of cross-cutting issues across DOT modes. 7) Review the current HSIS computer capabilities to determine if they will meet the needs of HSIS-VI requirements. If additional hardware or software is needed, the Contractor shall investigate options and prepare a detailed plan justifying the hardware/software required. Complete purchase specifications and cost estimates from three vendors shall be obtained. Major equipment and software maintenance agreements must be approved in writing by the COTR prior to purchase by the Contractor. Minor equipment upgrades and software enhancements shall be purchased by the Government. 8) Prepare HSIS for the future exigencies of GIS data. Under the guidance of FHWA, the Contractor shall provide support to the Office of Safety R&D in developing and implementing a plan for new GIS safety analysis tools. Additionally, the Contractor shall explore further enhancement of GIS capabilities in HSIS. 9) Support of tools developed and maintained under HSIS. These shall include but are not limited to GIS Safety Analysis tools, PBCAT, HSIP database, and the CMF Clearinghouse. This shall include preparing HSIS for the future requirements of the data associated with these tools. Upon their availability, the new data, such as but not limited to Urban Center data, shall be integrated into the HSIS when applicable and

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 8 of 73 possible, or as a supplemental data set able to be linked clearly and logically, via FHWAacceptable linkage variable(s), to the HSIS data. 10) Support HSIS Data Contest. The Contractor shall work with FHWA to develop and administer a contest, through a neutral third party that has experience and/or affiliation with research, using HSIS data, modeled after the FHWA Long Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) International Data Contest. Similar to the LTPP Data Contest, the HSIS Data Contest could assess HSIS data integration in four categories: (a) undergraduate student (individual or team) project, (b) graduate student (individual or team) project, (c) faculty integration of HSIS in the classroom curriculum, and (d) partnerships demonstrating use of HSIS data into their projects. This neutral party shall be a professional organization involved in transportation safety and dissemination of professional information with sufficient expertise to provide rating of the contest entries. The Contractor in conjunction with the FHWA shall determine the awards and award structure for the various categories. It is expected that the HSIS Data Contest shall be conducted annually. Information regarding the LTPP International Data Contest can be found at http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/pavement/ltpp/contest.cfm. The draft data contest plan shall be developed no later than July 1, 2012, with the final due no later than August 15, 2012. The HSIS Data Contest shall be administered by the Contractor during 2012 through 2016. 11) Support HSIS Web site. The Contractor shall maintain and update the HSIS when appropriate by the FHWA. In addition, the Contractor shall review the current HSIS Web site and provide prioritized recommendations regarding how it can be improved as an effective tool to market HSIS data, capabilities, publications, and other HSIS products. The review and recommendations should also explore other functions for the HSIS Web site. Upon approval from the COTR, the Contractor shall implement the recommendations. 12) Market and promote the HSIS. The Contractor, in coordination with FHWA, shall explore and implement activities in addition to the HSIS Web site and HSIS Data Contest to market and promote the HSIS' data, services, and products to new audiences. 2. Deliver a revised final Task B plan that reflects Government comments to the COTR and Contract Administrator on or before April 30, 2012. The Government may take 20 days from receipt of the draft to provide comments.

Task C ­ Maintain and Operate HSIS-V/VI Beginning on May 1, 2012, with written approval from the COTR, and in accordance with the approved Task B plan, provide support to: 1. Maintain HSIS - The maintenance of the HSIS includes:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 9 of 73 a. Maintain existing HSIS files b. Acquire and prepare 2010 through 2015 HSIS files (Pre-2010 data may have to be acquired for certain States) c. Monitor proposed changes of data systems within the participating States d. Maintain the HSIS computer equipment and software e. Update and maintain HSIS documentation f. Update and maintain HSIS Web site (www.hsisinfo.org) g. Enhance HSIS 2. Operate HSIS - The operation of the HSIS includes: a. b. c. d. e. f. g. Project management and coordination Conduct of highway safety research/analysis Provide technical support for highway safety research and analysis Collect data to support HSIS and other highway safety research activities Provide HSIS data to the highway safety community On-site support at Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center Prepare specifications and estimates of new computer hardware/software and scientific equipment needed for the HSIS and its projects h. Support tools developed under HSIS i. Develop and support HSIS Data Contest j. Provide input on the HSIS Web site and other HSIS information dissemination tools.

3.

Arrange and conduct an annual, two-day HSIS Liaison meetings for representatives of the States and Urban Centers participating in or being considered for inclusion in HSIS, HSIS contract staff, and appropriate FHWA personnel. The purpose of the meetings shall be to solicit information from the State and Urban representatives on the design and operation of the HSIS, and on any upcoming changes within the State and Urban information systems. The meetings are to be held in the fall season of each year at a site to be mutually agreed upon by the principal investigator and the COTR. The Contractor shall prepare minutes for each conference and distribute those minutes within 45 days after a meeting to the State and Urban Center representatives, HSIS contract staff, and appropriate FHWA personnel. The Contractor is to reimburse all State and Urban Center participants for their travel costs associated with these meetings. The established travel budget includes funding for two representatives from each participating State and Urban Center to attend the annual HSIS conference. See Section L for more information regarding the travel budget.

Task D - Evaluate HSIS-V To provide a framework for the design of HSIS-VI, the Contractor shall: 1. Conduct an evaluation of the ability of the existing HSIS to meet the needs of the users.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 10 of 73 This evaluation shall include: a. An identification of the current and potential users of HSIS and an assessment of the ability of the HSIS to meet their safety data needs. This assessment shall include a review of the data of the current States and Urban Centers participating in HSIS and a review of data from non-HSIS states. The Contractor in conjunction with the COTR shall determine what additional data would enhance the HSIS and from where the data may be obtained. This may entail adding a State or Urban Center to the HSIS and/or replacing a participating HSIS State or Urban Center in favor of other States or Urban Centers that may have more complete and higher quality data. An important source to learn about non-HSIS States' data are the reports from National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's Traffic Records Assessments. These assessments have been conducted over the past several years for most of the 50 States. The Contractor may be required to travel to several non-HSIS States to learn more about the details of their data. The Contractor shall establish evaluation criteria to assess the data systems for non-HSIS States, HSIS States and HSIS Urban Centers. The Contractor shall make recommendations for enhancing HSIS with more data from additional sources and States and Urban Centers to include in HSIS-VI without exceeding a total of 12 participating States/Urban Centers/databases. While state-system highways that pass through urban areas are included in HSIS, the system does not contain city/local roads and their associated crashes. Therefore, many urban safety issues typically cannot be addressed with the HSIS. b. As appropriate and as directed by FHWA, examine how new and upcoming technologies can be utilized to enhance the HSIS databases. These new and upcoming technologies may potentially collect field data to fill data gaps such as horizontal and vertical alignment data. 2. On or before August 1, 2012, submit the draft evaluation as a Word document via e-mail to the COTR and to the Contract Specialist. The Government will review the plan and provide comments within 30 days of receipt. The Government's comments shall be reflected in the final version of the Task D plan. Within 30 days of receipt of the Government's comments, the Contractor shall submit an electronic copy of the final Task D plan to the COTR, no later than November 1, 2012

Task E - Design HSIS-VI 1. Using the results from Task D, the Contractor shall develop a conceptual design for the development of HSIS-VI. This design should focus on ways to: (a) improve the quality and range of data available in HSIS to meet the current and future analysis/research requirements of FHWA and the safety community, (b) improve the HSIS information dissemination approaches in marketing the system, its tools, and capabilities, and (c) improve the accessibility of the HSIS and its tools to the FHWA and the safety community. In developing the conceptual design, the Contractor shall:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 11 of 73 a. Identify and prioritize data gaps, equipment gaps, accessibility gaps, information dissemination gaps, and analytical gaps in HSIS. b. Investigate options for filling the identified gaps. These options may include, but are not limited to: acquiring data from new States/jurisdictions; acquiring unique or supplemental databases resulting from other studies; collecting field data through manual or automated modes using current and emerging technologies; renewing Geographical Information System (GIS) capabilities; collecting data from existing photologs in the HSIS laboratory and acquiring photologs for additional States and years; obtaining existing project history files from HSIS states (Headquarters and District levels); and hiring outside consultants for assistance on information dissemination, analytical, data collection, and marketing efforts. See Section L for the Government's recommended budget for activities associated with filling the gaps. c. Provide recommendations as to how the gaps should be filled, and provide a prioritized list of what gaps to fill first. Included with each recommendation shall be an estimate of the level of effort required. d. Develop a staging plan and budget to act on the recommendations. 2. On or before October 31 2012, submit a Word document of the conceptual design to the COTR and the Contract Specialist. The Government will review the conceptual design and provide comments within 30 days of receipt. The Government's comments shall be reflected in the final version of the Task E plan. Within 30 days of receipt of the Government's comments, the Contractor shall submit an electronic copy of the final Task E plan to the COTR, no later than December 30, 2012.

Task F - Develop HSIS-VI 1. On or before February 28, 2013, using the final design from Task E, and incorporating the Government's comments, initiate development of HSIS-VI. The schedule and progress of system enhancements in developing HSIS-VI shall be documented on a continuous basis in bi-monthly progress reports (see Task G). In addition, within the final year of the Contract, recommendations shall be provided for future enhancements that may be appropriate to consider in a follow-on effort to this Contract. These recommendations shall be documented in the progress reports.

2.

Task G - Prepare HSIS Reports At a minimum, the Contractor shall be responsible for the preparation of the following reports:

1.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 12 of 73 At the conclusion of each significant HSIS effort (to be defined by the COTR and principal investigator), prepare a 2 to 6 page HSIS summary report complete with appropriate figures and tables highlighting the results of the analysis. These summary reports shall follow the style and format of the existing HSIS summary reports. A set of existing HSIS summary reports can be found at the FHWA's Web site www.tfhrc.gov and at the HSIS informational Web site www.hsisinfo.org. Three copies of each document shall be sent to the COTR. In addition, the COTR and principal investigator will decide for which HSIS research/analysis efforts to have technical papers prepared of length and style suitable for publication in a Transportation Research Record, the FHWA's Public Roads, Institute of Transportation Engineers' journal, or a comparable journal. At a minimum, the HSIS staff shall submit two technical articles to be published each year. The HSIS Update is an internal publication for HSIS States, Urban Centers and the FHWA. This Update shall periodically publish HSIS evaluations, data issues and projects, research suggestions, and planned activities and meetings. The Contractor shall prepare a bi-monthly report describing activities, advancements, and accomplishments, based upon deliverable schedule. Requirements for FHWA Documents, Publications, and Reports shall be as stipulated in Section H. Update the marketing, communication, and outreach plan with each completed and planned study or activity (see Task H below).

2.

3.

4.

5.

Task H -Finalize the Marketing, Communications and Outreach Plan As part of this evaluation, the Contractor shall begin preparing a marketing, communication, and outreach plan (MCOP) for HSIS products and data analysis capabilities. This shall include review of past HSIS marketing plans and efforts and an examination of how effective the current HSIS information dissemination approaches are in marketing the system, educating users on the use of the system, and providing the highway safety community with HSIS data and results from HSIS studies. The MCOP shall describe the following: 1.Applicable products and their intended users; 2.Distribution methods and delivery formats; 3.Outreach activities (these might include conference presentations, publications, committee meetings, etc.) 4.Training materials and/or opportunities; 5.Schedule of activities; and 6.Program integration.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 13 of 73 The Contractor shall deliver the first draft of a MCOP by December 15, 2011, using Part 1, Section 2 ­ Steps for Implementation of a Highway Safety Product, of "Steps to Success in Highway Safety Communications: Planning Workbook" (Workbook) as a format and content guide The Planning Workbook is available as at: http://visualmotives.com/09-1296current/safety_program/Comm%20Plan%20Decision%20Tool%20FHWASafetyProgram_final %2006-07.doc. Note that the Workbook is only a guide. While the MCOP shall generally follow the Workbook in structure and content, not every step presented in the Workbook is relevant for every project, and the relative importance of each step depends entirely on the specifics of each project. Also note, this task involves developing the MCOP and not implementing the MCOP. The MCOP shall discuss how practitioners can utilize design and operational information arising from this research, and will also discuss the safety impact of this research. In addition to the technical briefs and final report, the MCOP shall address what other recommended end products could be developed such as journal articles, brochures, and presentations. The MCOP in particular shall address: 1. 2. 3. 4. Define Target Markets Define Goals Define Audience Identify Desired Audience Action Outcomes

The Contractor shall undertake the following tasks in support of this task: 1. 2. Update and complete the MCOP. After updating all sections of the MCOP, generate and deliver the final marketing, communication and outreach plan. The final plan shall identify the materials and activities needed. The final plan shall indicate a timeline for these products and activities. For each element of the plan, the responsible individual or office shall be identified. The Contractor shall incorporate the comments received from the Government into a revised version for each document. The final MCOP shall be delivered by March 31, 2012. SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING Deliverables under this Contract shall be prepared and packaged for shipment using best commercial practices so as to ensure economical, safe and timely delivery. SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE All work hereunder shall be subject to review by the Government. The COTR shall make acceptance of the Deliverables (see Section F) in writing. FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

3.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 14 of 73 This Contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer (CO) will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.gsa.gov/far. 52.246-4 52.246-9 Inspection of Services ­ Cost Reimbursement (APR 1984) Inspection of Research and Development (Short Form) (APR 1984)

52.246-16 Responsibility for Supplies (APR 1984) SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE All work and services required hereunder shall be completed on or before 60 months after the effective date of the Contract. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE All work performed under this contract shall be performed at the Contractor's facility and at Tuner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center (TFHRC). PLACE OF DELIVERY All deliverables and a copy of the bi-monthly reports (See Section G) under the Contract shall be delivered via email to the COTR at the following email address: Attn: (to be filled in at award) The bi-monthly report and other items as specified shall be delivered to the Contract Administrator via email at the following email address: Attention: (to be filled in at award)

SCHEDULE OF WORK All tasks set forth in the Statement of Work shall be performed in accordance with the work schedule as negotiated. Performance shall begin on the effective date of the Contract.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 15 of 73

DELIVERABLES & MILESTONES Number Description 1 Date Due December 15, Task H - Marketing, Communications and Outreach Plan Draft 2011 January 15, 2012 and every two months Task G - Bimonthly Report thereafter through October 15, 2016 March 1, 2012 Task B - HSIS VI Operation Plan Draft March 31, 2012 Task H - Marketing, Communications and Outreach Plan Final April 1, 2012 Task B - Prepare Data Contest Plan Draft April 30, 2012 Task B - HSIS VI Operation Plan Final August 1, 2012 Task D - Evaluation of HSIS-V Draft August 15, 2012 Task B - Data Contest Plan Final September or Task C - Conduct Annual HSIS Liaison Meeting October 2012 through 2016 October 31, 2012 Task E - Conceptual Design for the Development of HSIS-VI November 1, Task D - Evaluation of HSIS-V Final 2012 December 30, Task E - Conceptual Design for the Development of HSIS-VI Final 2012 February 28, Task F - Develop HSIS-VI 2013 June - July 2013 and every year Task B - Conduct HSIS Data Contest thereafter through 2016

2

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13

14

FAR 52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) -- ALTERNATE I (APR 1984) (a) The CO may, at any time, by written order to the Contractor, require the Contractor to stop all, or any part, of the work called for by this contract for a period of 90 days after

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 16 of 73 the order is delivered to the Contractor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Within a period of 90 days after a stop-work order is delivered to the Contractor, or within any extension of that period to which the parties shall have agreed, the CO shall either: (1) (2) Cancel the stop-work order; or Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Termination clause of this contract.

(b)

If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled or the period of the order or any extension thereof expires, the Contractor shall resume work. The CO shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule, the estimated cost, the fee, or a combination thereof, and in any other terms of the contract that may be affected, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if: (1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and The Contractor asserts its right to the adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that, if the CO decides the facts justify the action, the CO may receive and act upon a proposal submitted at any time before final payment under this contract.

(2)

(c)

If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the CO shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the CO shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

(d)

BI-MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORT The Contractor shall furnish electronic (pdf) copies of a bi-monthly letter-type progress report to the COTR and one copy to the CA, on or before the 15th of the month following the month being reported. Each report shall contain concise statements covering the research activities relevant to the study, including:

1. 2. 3.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 17 of 73 A clear and complete account of the work performed on each task. An outline of the work to be accomplished during the next report period. A description of any problem encountered or anticipated that will affect the completion of the contract within the time and fiscal constraints as set forth in the contract, together with recommended solutions to such problems; or, a statement that no problems were encountered. A tabulation showing current and cumulative person hours expended by the personnel identified in the Professional Staffing section of the contract and the current and cumulative expenditures for each active task.

4.

FUNDS AVAILABLE a. Currently, funds in the amount of $_________ are obligated to this Contract. b. The balance of funding under this contract ($__________) will be obligated subject to availability of funds and formal modification to this contract by the Contracting Officer. c. The clause entitled "LIMITATION OF FUNDS" applies to this Contract. Any notification required on the part of the Contract shall be made in writing to the Contracting Officer. In the event that the contract is not funded beyond the estimated cost set forth in the schedule, the Contractor shall deliver to the Contracting Officer the data collected and the material produced or in process or acquired in connection with the performance of the project provided herein together with a summary report in five copies of its progress and accomplishments to date. PAYMENT ­ COST REIMBURSEMENT a. The Contractor may be reimbursed for direct and indirect costs incurred in the performance hereof as are allowable under the provisions of Subpart 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in the not-to-exceed amount of $____________ subject to the Limitation of Funds Clause. b. The Contractor may request monthly interim payments for costs incurred during the performance of this Contract. Each monthly interim payment request shall be supported by a statement of costs incurred by the Contractor in the performance of this Contract and claimed to constitute allowable costs. Each monthly interim payment request shall be submitted in accordance with Attachment No. 7 under Section J, "The FHWA Billing Instructions for Cost Reimbursement Contracts" to be considered proper for payment. Prior approval of the CO is required if the Contractor wishes to use a different payment request format. Any payments

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 18 of 73 hereunder will be made upon determination by the CO that the requirements of the contract are being met. c. In accordance with clause 52.232-25, "Prompt Payment," monthly interim payments will be made by the 30th day following receipt of proper request for payment by the designated billing office, unless audit or other review is considered necessary to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract. All interim payments hereunder will be made upon further determination by the CO that the Contractor is making adequate progress toward successful contract completion. d. Final invoice payment shall be made upon the CO's determination that all requirements of the contract have been completed. The payment due date for final invoice shall be established in compliance with the clause 52.232-25. INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF INVOICES: Invoices and required supporting documents should be sent via e-mail to the following email address: 9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. a) Include the invoice and supporting documents as an attached PDF document. b) Include in the e-mail subject line the following: (i) Invoice # (ii) Contract Number (iii) Name of your Company/Organization (iv) Attention: Sarah H. Khan Example: Invoice No. 1 of Contract No. DTFH61-08-C-00001 ABC Corporation, Attention: Sarah H. Khan If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB, as an e-mail attachment, the Contractor must select one of two non-electronic submission options presented below: 1. Invoice may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following P.O. Box address: Federal Highway Administration Markview Processing P.O. Box 268865 Oklahoma City, OK 73126-8865 Attention: Sarah H. Khan 2. Invoice submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address because delivery services other than the U.S. Postal Service will not deliver to the P.O. Box address noted above:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 19 of 73 MMAC FHWA/AMZ-150 6500 MacArthur Blvd. Oklahoma City, OK 73169 Attention: Sarah H. Khan Express Delivery Point of Contact: Lead Accounting Technician, Room 291, 405-954-8252. NOTE: All three invoice submission options described above (e-mail, U.S. Postal Service or overnight service) result in the delivery of the invoice to the same finance office in Oklahoma City, OK. NOTE: The prime and sub contractors shall submit all labor and other direct expenses for invoicing within 60 days after occurrence. All person-travel documents (airfare, rental car, hotel, per Diem, and other direct expenses incurred during travel) associated with the same trip must be contained in the same invoice. INDIRECT COSTS Pending the establishment of final indirect cost rates which shall be negotiated based on audit of actual costs as provided in Subpart 42.7 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for allowable indirect costs hereunder at the ceiling rate or provisional rate of [TO BE NEGOTIATED__]. This INDIRECT COST provision does not operate to waive the LIMITATION OF FUNDS Clause. The Contractor's audited final indirect costs are allowable only insofar as they do not cause the Contractor to exceed the total estimated costs for performance of the contract listed on page 2 (SECTION B) and under the PAYMENT provision above. The provisional indirect rates negotiated under this contract for billing purposes, shall remain in effect until revised rates have been approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall request new provisional billing rates in writing. Such request shall delineate the current and proposed rates to be used. TRAVEL AND PER DIEM Travel and Per Diem authorized under this contract shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Government Travel Regulations currently in effect. The total travel costs shall not exceed the amounts indicated in Section B without express written approval of the CO. Travel requirements under this contract shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available. If economy class transportation is not available, the request for payment voucher must be submitted with justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times, and flight numbers. All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates, unless authorized by the CO. Fee is not authorized for

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 20 of 73 travel and per diem expenses. CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR) The Contracting Officer has designated ______________as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to assist in monitoring the work under this contract. The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison with the Contractor. The COTR IS NOT authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in the contract, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds. The technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions of this contract. Any such revision shall be authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. SUBCONTRACTS - ADVANCE NOTIFICATION AND CONSENT Under this contract, the requirements of FAR 44.2, CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACTS, have been fulfilled for the following subcontracts: [as negotiated] Any future change or revision to the Statement of Work or other applicable aspects of this contract shall include the subcontract(s) only to the extent that performance of the subcontract(s) is directly affected by the change or revision. SUBCONTRACT REPORTING Prime Contractors using paper copies of Standard Form (SF) 294, Subcontracting Reports for Individual Contracts, and SF 295, Summary Subcontract Reports prescribed under FAR 52.2199(j) are hereby instructed to discontinue the use of the paper forms, and report their subcontracting data using the web-based electronic Subcontract Reporting System (eSRS). The eSRS web site is located at: http://www.esrs.gov/. The offeror's subcontracting plan shall include assurances that the offeror will (1) submit the Individual Subcontracting Reports and Summary Subcontracting Reports under the eSRS and (2) ensure that its subcontractors agree to submit Individual Subcontracting Reports and Summary Subcontracting Reports at all tiers, in eSRS. The Contractor or subcontractor shall provide such information that will allow applicable lower tier subcontractors to fully comply with the statutory requirements of FAR 19.702.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 21 of 73 TAR 1252.237-73 KEY PERSONNEL (APR 2005) (a) The personnel as specified below are considered essential to the work being performed under this contract and may, with the consent of the contracting parties, be changed from time to time during the course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel, as appropriate. Before removing, replacing, or diverting any of the specified individuals, the Contractor shall notify the contracting officer, in writing, before the change becomes effective. The Contractor shall submit information to support the proposed action to enable the Contracting Officer to evaluate the potential impact of the change on the contract. The Contractor shall not remove or replace personnel under this contract until the Contracting Officer approves the change.

(b)

The Contractor has designated the following as the key personnel under this contract: Position Principal Investigator On-site Lab Manager Senior Highway Research Engineer Statistician Computer/Database Specialist Marketing Specialist PROFESSIONAL STAFFING The Contractor agrees to assign the following professional staffing to this contract work: Junior Engineer and Administrative Support. In the event the Contractor finds it necessary to replace any of the assigned personnel during the performance of the contract, the Contracting Officer shall be notified in advance. SUPERVISORY CONTROLS All employees shall work under the supervision of the Contractor's Program Manager. The Program Manager, in consultation with the COTR and the office managers where the employee is assigned, provides guidance and defines the overall objectives of the work, setting priorities accordingly. The employee and the Program Manager, in consultation, set priorities and completion dates for assignment. CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES a. The Contractor shall only provide employees who conduct themselves in a responsible manner; Staff Member To be determined To be determined To be determined To be determined To be determined To be determined

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 22 of 73 b. The Contractor shall not disclose information in publication marked for "For Official Use Only," or those otherwise clearly confidential in nature; c. The Contractor and its employees shall conduct only the business covered by this contract, and shall not conduct any other business on Government premises;

d. Contractor personnel shall abide by the rules and regulations applicable to the FHWA premises, including any applicable safety and security regulations; e. Gambling, alcohol, and illegal drugs are prohibited on DOT premises; f. Contractor employee shall not come to work under the influence of intoxication beverages or illegal drugs; g. Use of Government facilities including telephones, copiers, fax machines and computers is prohibited for personal or company business not related to performance of this contract h. No employee may download any software, updates, videos, screensavers, games, music, photographs, peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing programs [Peet-to-peer program are typically used to download music, videos, and other files], or any other material onto a Government computer. No software may be downloaded from any Government computer for personal or any use other than for official Government business; and i. No Contractor employee shall remove any Government property from DOT premises without prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. CONTRACTOR SUPERVISION The Contractor shall provide total supervision of its staff. Government personnel are not authorized or permitted to supervise any Contractor personnel. The Contractor's Project Manager for this contract is ______________, who shall communicate with the COTR to determine the Government's work requirements as set forth in the Statement of Work and shall assure that these requirements are fulfilled. In the event the designated Project Manager is incapacitated due to illness or injury or otherwise is to be removed by the Contractor during the contract performance, replacement of the incumbent Project Manager shall be subject to the approval of the Contracting Officer. ON-SITE DUTY HOURS Contractor employees shall provide support 8.5 hours per day, including a 30-minute lunch break and two 15-minute breaks daily, Monday through Friday, exclusive of Federal holidays. Employees shall establish a regular schedule of work, during a 8:30 am Eastern Time (ET) to 5:00 pm ET period. Support provide by the On-site Lab Manager position shall be exclusively on-site and shall not be interpreted to allow for telecommuting, Alternative Work Schedules,

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 23 of 73 Regular Day Off compressed work schedules, or compensatory time. OBSERVANCE OF LEGAL HOLIDAYS AND ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE Any contractor personnel working on Government premises shall observe only the holidays listed below: New Year's Day Veteran's Day Memorial Day Labor Day Columbus Day President's Day Christmas Day Inauguration Day Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday Thanksgiving Day Independence Day

Any other day designated by Federal statute. Any other day designated by Executive Order. Any other day designated by Presidential proclamation. When any such day falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed. When any such day falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed. The cost of salaries and wages to the contractor for the above days shall be a direct cost for employees whose regular time is normally direct charged, and a reimbursable item of indirect cost for employees whose regular time is normally charged indirect (in accordance with the contractor's accounting policy). It is understood and agreed between the Government and the contractor that observance of these days by contractor personnel shall not "on-its-face" cause for an additional period of performance or entitlement of compensation except as set forth above. In the event the contractor's personnel work during a holiday, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as direct or indirect costs. However, this does not preclude reimbursement of authorized overtime work. When administrative leave or any other day (including snow-weather related days) designated by Federal statute, Executive Order, or Presidential proclamation, is granted to Federal employees, on-site contractor personnel will also be dismissed. The cost of salaries and wages for on-site personnel for the period of any such excused absence will be a reimbursable item as explained in the preceding paragraph. TECHNICAL DIRECTION Performance of the work under this contract is subject to the Technical Direction of the COTR. The term "Technical Direction" is defined to include, without limitation, the following: a. Direction to the Contractor which redirects the efforts, m shits work emphasis between work areas, requires pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fills in details or otherwise serves to accomplish the statement of work;

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 24 of 73 b. Provision of information to the Contractor that assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of the work description; and, c. Review and approval/rejection of technical reports, drawings, specifications and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor. All Technical Direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract. The COTR does not have the authority to and may not issue any Technical Direction that: (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the base contract; (ii) constitutes a change as defines in the base contract clause entitled "Changes"; (iii) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in prices ser forth in Section B; or (iv) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions or specifications of the contract. All Technical Direction must be issued in writing, or shall be confirmed in writing by the COTR within 3 working days after issuance. The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of duly issued Technical Directions. However, if in the opinion of the Contractor, the direction issued but the COTR is within one of the prescribed categories in (i) through (vi) above, the Contractor shall not proceed, but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, within 3 working days after receipt of any such direction. The Contracting Officer will determine if the Technical Direction is proper, or if a contract modification would be required to properly implement the direction. Failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject to the clause included in Section I entitled "Disputes." LIABILITY The Government cannot indemnify the Contractor or its subcontractor(s) from liability as a result of the performance of work under this contract. Therefore, the Contractor is required to obtain adequate property, vehicle and liability insurance during the entire period of performance, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the clause at FAR 52.228-7, which is incorporated into this contract in Section I. Evidence of such insurance must be submitted to the Contracting Officer as a condition of award. SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS CONTRACT START UP The Contactor shall be prepared to perform all work set forth in Section C upon the effective date of the Contract. TRANSITION ACTIVITIES

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 25 of 73 At the outset and conclusion of the period of performance, the Contractor shall provide services needed to assist in a smooth and orderly transition between any incumbent Contractor and any successor Contractor to ensure minimum disruption and loss of continuity to Government business. These services may include, but are not limited to: data and other file transfer, material transfer, coordination with existing Contractor, and other activities to assist in an orderly transfer and establishment of continued operation of the contract services and experiments. The Contractor is expected to cooperate fully in the transition. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY The Federal Highway Administration, Office of Acquisition Management, is the only agency that is authorized to modify, suspend, or terminate performance under this Contract. DISSEMINATION OF CONTRACT INFORMATION The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. Two copies of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer, and one copy to the COTR. NON-PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT This contract is a "non-personal services contract" as defined in the FAR Subpart 37.101. It is understood and agreed that the Contractor and/or Contractor's employees, consultants and subcontractors: (a) Shall perform the services specified herein as independent Contractors, not as employees of the Government. Shall be responsible for their own management and administration of the work required, and bear sole responsibility for complying with any and all technical, schedule, or financial requirements or constraints attendant to the performance of this contract. Shall be free from any direct or indirect supervision or control by any Government employee with respect to the manner or method of performance of the services specified; however Shall, pursuant to the government rights under contract clauses such as "Inspection," and "Key Personnel" comply with such general direction of authorized Government employees as is necessary and appropriate to ensure accomplishment of the contract requirements and objectives.

(b)

(c)

(d)

UNAUTHORIZED USE AND DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 26 of 73 To the extent that the work under this Contract requires access to proprietary data, the Contractor shall protect such data from unauthorized use. This refers to either Government or other confidential financial or business information. CONTROL AND DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS The Contractor shall comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations 29 CFR Parts 1910 and 1926. Attention is directed to the control of hazardous material, Section 1910.12'00 of the OSHA regulations and the Environmental Protection Agency regulations concerning the disposal of hazardous waste [Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resources Conservation Act of 1976, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.)]. REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING SECTION 508 STANDARDS The following applies to all FHWA Contracts issued on or after June 25, 2001, for Preparation of Technical reports or other documents that FHWA plans to post on a website. In addition to the work requirements specified in this statement of work, vendors must ensure that all electronic documents that they prepare will meet the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The act requires that all electronic products prepared for the Federal Government be accessible to persons with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, cognitive, and mobility impairments. Vendors can view Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm) and the Federal IT Accessibility Initiative (Home Page) (http://section508.gov/) for detailed information. The FHWA has determined that the accessibility requirements contained in the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards, Section 1194.22, "Web-based intranet and internet information and applications," apply to this work. The standards are available at www.access-board.gov/508.htm. The following paragraphs summarize the requirements for preparing FHWA reports in conformance with Section 508 for eventual posting by FHWA to an FHWA-sponsored website. If you have further questions, please contact the FHWA contracting officers technical representatives listed in this statement of work. Electronic documents with images Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element in all publications prepared in electronic format. Use descriptions (such as, "alt" and "longdesc") for all non-text images or place them in element content. For all documents prepared, vendors must prepare one standard HTML format (as described in this statement of work) AND one text format that includes descriptions for all non-text images. "Text equivalent" means text sufficient to reasonably describe the image. For example, an image that is merely decorative requires only a very brief "text equivalent" description. However, if the image conveys information that is important to the content of the report, then text sufficient to reasonably describe that image and its purpose within the context of

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 27 of 73 the report must be provided. Electronic documents with complex charts or data tables When preparing tables that are heavily designed, provide adequate alternate information so that assistive technologies can read them out. Identify row and column headers for data tables. Provide the information in a non-linear form. Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. Electronic documents with forms When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues. CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL OUTPROCESSING This FHWA local clause is applicable to Contracts that have or will have one or more of the following: 1) 2) 3) 4) Contractor Personnel (CP) working onsite in FHWA facilities. CP who require DOT network access. CP who require access to sensitive information. CP who require access to DOT resources.

Contractor companies shall ensure that their personnel properly outprocess FHWA when leaving a position supporting FHWA contract activities. The FHWA Contracting Officer MAY WITHHOLD PAYMENT OF PENDING INVOICES until CP are properly outprocessed. All questions relating to outprocessing FHWA should be directed to the COTR or the Contracting Officer. At a minimum, the following must be accomplished by the Contractor's Program Manager or CP prior to CP departure from FHWA: 1) Return ALL government property assigned to CP. 2) Contact the FHWA Service Request Manager (SRM) for removal of DOT network access privileges, computer accounts, and authentication tokens, such as network accounts in Active Directory, Virtual Private Network, and Shared-drive access. The COTR can provide the name for the FHWA SRM for the program office. 3) Turn in DOT identification card to the COTR. CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL PREPROCESSING, BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION AND INFORMATION SECURITY SYSTEM AWARENESS TRAINING a. This FHWA local clause is applicable to contracts that have or will have Contractor Personnel (CP) working onsite in FHWA facilities, have CP who require DOT network

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 28 of 73 access, require access to sensitive information, OR access to DOT resources. The clause is issued to: 1) supplement DOT HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification, TAR 1252.237-70 Qualifications of Contractor Employees, and TAR 1252.239-70 Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Resources, 2) provide detailed instructions for preprocessing CP and initiating background investigations, 3) implement the requirement for CP who work onsite in FHWA facilities OR require Department of Transportation (DOT) network access to submit proof of Information Security System Awareness (ISSA) training in conjunction with their background investigation request, and 4) provide information about the required ISSA training. b. CP shall not be permitted to begin work in FHWA facilities, have connectivity to the DOT network, access sensitive information, OR access DOT resources until documentation required to initiate a background investigation is received, ISSA training is completed, and authorization is received from FHWA Personnel Security. The initial process takes several business days and IS ONLY THE BEGINNING OF THE ACTUAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION. The Contractor, Program Manager (PM)/CP will be notified by FHWA Personnel Security via e-mail once CP are cleared to report for duty. While CP may report for duty, final clearance is granted only after the background investigation is complete. Completion of the background investigation can take months depending upon the actual investigation findings and the depth of investigation that results from those findings. The Government will provide the Contractor/PM/CP with all required forms to initiate a background investigation for use by CP. Contractor/PM/CP shall complete and submit required forms for a background investigation as soon as possible after notification of selection for a position. It is imperative that the PM and CP respond promptly to any additional information requests from the COTR, FHWA Personnel Security, or the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST) Security Office so that the process can be completed as efficiently and quickly as possible. 1) Immediately upon notification of selection for a position, CP shall fill out the Form DOT 1600.8, Personnel Security Action Request and Notification. This form is used to initiate a background investigation. The Form DOT 1600.8 can be found here http://www.volpe.dot.gov/career/docs/psaf1600-8.doc or sent to the Contractor/PM/CP by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR). Upon completion, this form shall be submitted to the field specialist/COTR who will complete the "Requesting Office" section. The COTR will submit the completed DOT 1600.8 to FHWA Personnel Security. 2) In addition to the DOT 1600.8, CP shall provide two fingerprint samples for the background investigation. Contractor/PM/CP can obtain the blank fingerprint cards from the COTR. CP can have fingerprints taken at their local Law Enforcement

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 29 of 73 agency. PMs in the local commuting area (DC, Virginia, Maryland, etc.) may arrange through their COTR for CP to visit the Identification Media Center in the Headquarters West Building, Room W-12 for fingerprinting. Contractor/PM/CP shall mail or express mail (highly recommended) two fingerprint cards to FHWA Personnel Security. CP in the local commuting area have the choice of mailing their fingerprint cards or giving them directly to the COTR. It is highly recommended that CP who will be working at Headquarters or Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center get fingerprinting done at the Identification Media Center in the Headquarters West Building. 3) All onsite or network access CP must complete ISSA training. ISSA training can be found at http://iase.disa.mil/eta/index.html, with the title "Federal ISS Awareness (for non-DoD Personnel)." Questions about the ISSA training should be directed to the COTR. After completion, CP must print a copy of the training certificate. The certificate shall be submitted along with the DOT 1600.8 to the COTR. Subsequent refresher training is required annually by a date to be determined each year. 4) The Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (E-QIP) system provides a questionnaire that is used to collect information required to do a background investigation. For CP who have a current background investigation, the Contractor/PM/CP will be notified by the OST Security Office if the E-QIP is required. CP will be granted access to the EQIP system after the DOT 1600.8 is submitted to FHWA Personnel Security by the field specialist/COTR. CP will receive an email from the OST Security Office and/or the FHWA Personnel Security with a link to the E-QIP system. The e-mail will also contain instructions on the required actions and documents that must be completed and submitted to the COTR. Note that the documents may be hand carried to FHWA Personnel Security by the PM or CP provided that they are escorted by the COTR. 5) Once the items listed above are received and processed by FHWA Personnel Security, and the PM or CP receive notification that CP may report for duty, the COTR will initiate a request for DOT network access. When that access is received, which may take several days, CP will receive e-mail instructions for applying for a DOT identification (ID) card. The process to receive the ID card is governed by OST Security Office and may also take several days.

6) If, due to the results of the background check or any other reason, CP are found to be unsuitable for work under a FHWA contract, the COTR will notify the Contractor/PM. POST-AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE Contractor Performance Evaluations

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 30 of 73 a. Interim and final evaluations of Contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.1502 and TAM 1242.1502. The final performance evaluations will be prepared at the time of completion of work. b. The Contractor can elect to review the evaluation and submit additional information or a rebuttal statement. The Contractor will be permitted 30 calendar days to respond. Contractor response is voluntary. If the Contractor does not respond within 30 days, the Government will presume that the Contractor has no comment. Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual at a level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision is final. c. Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions. Federal Highway Administration utilizes the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to record and maintain past performance information. CPARS hosts a suite of web-enabled applications that are used to document Contractor performance information that is required by Federal Regulations. The CPARS module assesses performance on contracts for Systems, Services, Information Technology, and Operations Support. The Architect-Engineer Contract Administration Support System (ACASS) module assesses performance on Architect-Engineer contracts. The Construction Contractor Appraisal Support System (CCASS) module assesses performance on Construction contracts. CPARS reference material can be accessed at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsfiles/cpars/refmatl.htm. The registration process requires the Contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact. This individual will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment. In addition, the Contractor is encouraged to identify a secondary contact in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time period. After the FHWA Contract Specialist registers the contract in CPARS, the Contractor will receive a system generated e-mail notifying him/her that the contract is registered. A system generated e-mail will also provide the Contractor with a User ID if the person does not already have a CPARS User ID. Once a performance evaluation has been prepared and is ready for comment, the Contractor representative will receive a system generated e-mail notification that the performance evaluation is electronically available for review and comment. The Contractor representative will receive an automated e-mail whenever an assessment is completed and can subsequently retrieve the completed assessment from CPARS. Contractors may access evaluations at www.cpars.csd.disa.mil for review and comment in CPARS.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 31 of 73 ACCESS TO SENSITIVE INFORMATION BY CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES To the extent that the work under this Contract requires access to proprietary, business confidential, or financial data of other companies, and as long as such data remains proprietary or confidential, the Contractor shall protect such data from unauthorized use and disclosure and agrees not to use it to compete against such companies. Contractor employees found by the Government to be unsuitable or whose employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security may be prevented from performing work under the particular Contract when requested by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall ensure that contractor employees are: (1) citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced by Immigration and Naturalization Service documentation; and (2) have background investigations in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. The Contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded involving access to Government facilities, sensitive information, and/or resources. HOMELAND SECURITY PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE-12 (HSPD-12) (AUG 2004) DOT HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification clause: Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 was issued in response to the general threat of unauthorized persons gaining access to federal facilities and information systems. HSPD-12 requires all Federal agencies to use a common Personal Identity Verification (PIV) standard when identifying and issuing access rights to users of Federally-controlled facilities and/or Federal Information Systems. To perform the work specified herein, contractor personnel will require access to sensitive data, regular access to DOT-controlled facilities and/or access to DOT information systems. The Government estimates that this effort will entail multiple levels of risk/sensitivity, ranging from low to high; but risk/sensitivity levels cannot be ascertained definitively until after contract award. Accordingly, before any individual may obtain a DOT identification card (new or replacement) authorizing him/her routine access to DOT facilities, or logical access to DOT's information systems, the individual must provide two forms of identity source documents in original form. One identity source document must be a valid Federal or state government issued picture identification card. DOT contractors must contact the DOT servicing security organization to obtain the list of acceptable forms of documentation. Submission of these documents, and related background checks, are mandatory in order for the contractor to receive a building access

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 32 of 73 identification card, and before access will be granted to any of DOT's information systems. Identification documents must be presented again in order to receive the card after it is manufactured. DOT identification cards are government property and must be returned when access to government facilities or information systems is no longer authorized, e.g., upon termination of employment, upon the contractor's reassignment of the employee to a non-DOT project, upon termination of the contract, or upon demand by DOT. The minimum Government investigation for a low risk or non-sensitive position is a National Agency Check and Inquiries (with fingerprinting), which consists of searches of records covering specific areas of a person's background during the past five years. Those inquiries are sent to current and past employers, schools attended, references, and local law enforcement authorities. Higher level positions, above low risk/non-sensitive, require more extensive documentation and investigation. Contractors should ensure that the employees whose names they submit have a reasonable chance for access approval. Delays associated with rejections and consequent reinvestigations may not be excusable. The contractor must comply with all applicable HSPD-12 and PIV procedures, as described above, and any subsequent DOT or government-wide HSPD-12 and PIV procedures/policies, including any subsequent related DOT directives and required procedures. In the event of inconsistencies between this clause and later issued agency or government wide HSPD-12 guidance, the most recently issued guidance shall take precedence, unless otherwise instructed by the Contracting Officer. The contractor is required to include this clause in any subcontracts that require the subcontractor or subcontractor employee to have routine physical access to DOT space or logical access to a DOT information system. TAR 1252.237-70 QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES (APR 2005)

a. Definitions. As used in this clause- "Sensitive Information" is any information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss, or misuse, or is proprietary data, could adversely affect the national interest, the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy of individuals specified in The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, but has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. b. Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information, which shall not be disclosed, by the contractor unless authorized in writing by the contracting officer. To protect sensitive information, the contractor shall provide training to any contractor employees authorized to access sensitive information, and upon request of the Government, provide information as to an individual's suitability to have authorization.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 33 of 73 c. The Contracting Officer may require dismissal from work those employees deemed incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable, or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security. d. Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms, as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. e. The Contractor shall ensure that contractor employees are: (1) Citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services documentation; and (2) Have background investigations according to DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. f. The Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer when an employee no longer requires access to DOT computer systems due to transfer, completion of a project retirement or termination of employment. g. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources. (End of clause) TAR 1252.239-70 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (APR 2005) (a) The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology security for all systems connected to a Department of Transportation (DOT) network or operated by the Contractor for DOT, regardless of location. This clause is applicable to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services in which the Contractor has physical or electronic access to DOT's sensitive information that directly supports the mission of DOT. The term "information technology", as used in this clause, means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, including telecommunications equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes both major applications and general support systems as defined by OMB Circular A-130. Examples of tasks that require security provisions include:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 34 of 73 (1) Hosting of DOT e-Government sites or other IT operations; (2) Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DOT with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and (3) Access to DOT general support systems/major applications at a level beyond that granted the general public, e.g. bypassing a firewall. (b) The Contractor shall develop, provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract. The plan shall describe those parts of the contract to which this clause applies. The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with applicable Federal Laws that include, but are not limited to, 40 U.S.C. 11331, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 and the E-Government Act of 2002. The plan shall meet IT security requirements in accordance with Federal and DOT policies and procedures, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract that include, but are not limited to: (1) OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources; (2) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Guidelines; (3) Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM) and associated guidelines; and (4) DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. (c) Within 30 days after contract award, the Contractor shall submit the IT Security Plan to the DOT Contracting Officer for acceptance. This plan shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the Offeror's proposal or sealed bid that resulted in the award of this contract and in compliance with the requirements stated in this clause. The plan, as accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The Contractor shall comply with the accepted plan. Within 6 months after contract award, the Contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to the DOT for acceptance by the DOT Contracting Officer. Such written proof may be furnished either by the Contractor or by a third party. Accreditation must be in accordance with DOT Order 1350.2, which is available from the Contracting Officer upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document, and shall include a final security plan, a risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery/continuity of operations plan. The

ˇ

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 35 of 73 Contractor shall comply with the accepted accreditation documentation. (e) On an annual basis, the Contractor shall submit verification to the Contracting Officer that the IT Security Plan remains valid. The Contractor will ensure that the following banners are displayed on all DOT systems (both public and private) operated by the Contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: Government Warning **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING** Unauthorized access is a violation of U.S. Law and Department of Transportation policy, and may result in criminal or administrative penalties. Users shall not access other user's or system files without proper authority. Absence of access controls IS NOT authorization for access! DOT information systems and related equipment are intended for communication, transmission, processing and storage of U.S. Government information. These systems and equipment are subject to monitoring by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Monitoring may result in the acquisition, recording, and analysis of all data being communicated, transmitted, processed or stored in this system by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Use of this system constitutes consent to such monitoring. **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING** (g) The Contractor will ensure that the following banner is displayed on all DOT systems that contain Privacy Act information operated by the Contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: This system contains information protected under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-579). Any privacy information displayed on the screen or printed shall be protected from unauthorized disclosure. Employees who violate privacy safeguards may be subject to disciplinary actions, a fine of up to $5,000, or both. (h) Contractor personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by the Contractor for DOT or interconnected to a DOT network shall be screened at an appropriate level in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management, as it may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract. The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, in performance of the contract performing under this contract, receive annual IT security training in accordance with OMB Circular A130, FISMA, and NIST requirements, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract, with a specific emphasis on rules of behavior.

(f)

(i)

(j)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 36 of 73 The Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor's and subcontractors' facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases and personnel used in performance of the contract. Access shall be provided to the extent required to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability testing), investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability and confidentiality of DOT data or to the function of information technology systems operated on behalf of DOT, and to preserve evidence of computer crime. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts that meet the conditions in paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer when an employee terminates employment that has access to DOT information systems or data. (End of clause)

(k)

(l)

TAR 1252.239-71 IT SECURITY PLAN AND ACCREDITATION (APR 2005) All offers submitted in response to this solicitation must address the approach for completing the security plan and accreditation requirements in TAR clause 1252.239-70. TAR 1252.245-70 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY REPORTS (OCT 1994) (a) The Contractor shall prepare an annual report of Government property in its possession and the possession of its Subcontractors. (b) The report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer not later than September 15 of each calendar year on Form DOT F 4220.43, Contractor Report of Government Property. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED OR ACQUIRED PROPERTY Equipment provided by the Government or acquired by the Contractor for the performance of work under this Contract shall be maintained and accounted for in accordance with the provisions of FAR Part 45. At the conclusion of the contract, all equipment provided by the Government to the Contractor shall be returned to the Government in the same condition as when provided to the Contractor, less normal wear and tear. The Contractor is responsible for transporting all equipment to the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center (TFHRC), F.O.B. Destination, at the conclusion of the contract. The Contractor shall submit an annual report containing a complete inventory of all Government property. The report shall be submitted to the Contract Administrator not later than September 15 of each calendar year on Form DOT F 4220.43, Contractor Report of Government Property. The current Government furnished computer equipment includes the following:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 37 of 73 One Dell PowerEdge 2900 computer with Intel Xeon CPU, 2 GB Ram, 200 GB internal hard drive, 280 GB external hard drive and Windows Server 2003 R2 operating system. Two Dell Optiplex 960 with Intel Core 2 Quad CPU, 3.2 GB Ram and Windows XP Professional Operating System. Both our machines have an external hard drive of 250 GB and internal hard drive of 600 GB. All of this equipment has to be located at the HSIS Office at TFHRC. USE OF GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT The Government will provide the following facilities and services to the Contractor for the performance of work under this contract. Work Space The on-site support of the HSIS Laboratory will consist of office space at the TFHRC. Office Equipment The FHWA will make available to the Contractor the following items at TFHRC only: desks, chairs, tables, bookcases, wastebaskets, typewriter, filing cabinets, routine office supplies, and similar furniture and equipment as determined by the COTR to be necessary for accomplishment of services required by the Statement of Work. The Contractor personnel will also be provided with computer network stations. Services The FHWA will provide telephone service for official use only at no cost to the Contractor in connection with the duties performed by the Contractor under this contract. Contractor on-site personnel will have access to on-site reproducing equipment for official use only at no cost to the contractor in connection with the duties performed by the Contractor under this contract. Supplies The FHWA will supply the Contractor with expendable supplies necessary to complete the work, including office supplies. SOFTWARE All software shall be available for use during the period of performance by the Contractor, as well as, designated US DOT and its partners at the Contractor's expense. All developed and purchased software, data, and deliverables for this Contract shall be the property of the Government. *****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS***********

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 38 of 73 Current and potential U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Contractors have recently been receiving fraudulent letters purporting to be issued by DOT. These fraudulent letters request that Contractors resubmit their Central Contractor Registration System (CCR) banking information to DOT. If you receive such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the facsimile number cited in the letter. Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system. However, to register, contractors are required to go directly through the CCR website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For information on how to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/. INFORMATION TECHNOLIGY (IT) SERVICES PROVIDED BY CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES The Contractor shall be responsible for IT* security for all systems operated by or connected to a DOT network, regardless of location. This includes any IT resources or services in which the contractor has physical or electronic access to DOT's sensitive information that directly supports the mission of DOT (e.g., hosting DOT e-Government sites or other IT operations). If necessary, the Government shall have access to Contractor and any subcontractor facilities, systems/networks operated on behalf of DOT, documentation, databases and personnel to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability scanning), investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to DOT data or IT systems. Within 30 days of contract award, the Contractor shall develop and provide to the Government for approval, an IT Security Plan which describes the processes and procedures the Contractor will follow in performance of this contract to ensure the appropriate security of IT resources developed, processed, or used under this contract. This Plan shall be written and implemented in accordance with applicable Federal laws including: The Computer Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.), the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, and the Government Information Security Reform Act (GISRA) of 2000 and meet Government IT security requirements including: OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix 111, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources; National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Guidelines; Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM) and associated guidelines; and DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. The Contractor shall screen their personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by the Contractor for DOT or interconnected to a DOT network in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management and ensure Contractor employees are trained annually in accordance with OMB Circular A-130, GISRA, and NIST requirements with a specific emphasis on rules of behavior. The Contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded for IT services.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 39 of 73 *IT means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information and as further defined in OMB Circular A-130 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 2. CONTRACTOR POLICY TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING a) Definitions. The following definitions are intended to be consistent with the definitions in DOT Order 3902.10 and the E.O. For clarification purposes, they may expand upon the definitions in the E.O. "Driving"(1) Means operating a motor vehicle on a roadway, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light, stop sign, or otherwise. (2) It does not include being in your vehicle (with or without the motor running) in a location off the roadway where it is safe and legal to remain stationary. "Text messaging" means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device, including for the purpose of short message service texting, e-mailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. (See definition in DOT Order 3902.10) (b) In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, October 1, 2009, and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, December 30, 2009, contractors and subcontractors are encouraged to: (1) Adopt and enforce workplace safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted drivers including policies to ban text messaging while driving-(i) Company-owned or -rented vehicles or Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles; or (ii) Privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government. (2) Conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as(i) Establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving; and (ii) Education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts that exceed the micro-purchase threshold, other than subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items. (End of clause)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 40 of 73

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 41 of 73

PART II
SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) PRINTING RESTRICTIONS All printing funded by this contract must be done in conformance with Joint Committee on Printing regulations as prescribed in Title 44, United States Code, and Section 308 of Public Law 101-163, and all applicable Government Printing Office and Department of Transportation regulations. 52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

All Contractors desiring to receive awards of DOT contracts, purchase orders, delivery orders, or other contractual vehicles must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database before receiving an award, and throughout the contract's period of performance. The CCR is a Department of Defense web-based repository of Contractor information. Interested Offerors should read and understand the requirements of FAR 52.204-7. The Offeror must register in the CCR prior to receiving any DOT contract awards, and must maintain current, updated information in CCR throughout the performance period of the contract. The Electronic Funds Transfer information in the CCR must be accurate in order for Contractors' invoices or contract financing requests to be considered proper invoices for the purpose of prompt payment under DOT contracts. Offerors can register in CCR at any time and are encouraged to do so immediately. Offerors may register in the CCR database and obtain additional information at http://www.ccr.gov, or by calling 1-888-227-2423. The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR, and for any liability resulting from the DOT's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor must confirm on an annual basis that its information in the database is accurate and complete. *****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS*********** Recently, current U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Contractors and potential Contractors have received fraudulent letters purporting to be issued by DOT. These fraudulent letters request that current or potential Contractors register in the DOD Central Contractor

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 42 of 73 Registration System (CCR). If you receive such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the facsimile number cited in the letter. Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system. However, to register, Contractors should go directly through the CCR website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For information on how to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/ or call 1-888-227-2423. 52.204-10 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (J UL 2010)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause: "Executive" means officers, managing partners, or any other employees in management positions. "First-tier subcontract" means a subcontract awarded directly by a Contractor to furnish supplies or services (including construction) for performance of a prime contract, but excludes supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for materials or supplies that would normally be applied to a Contractor's general and administrative expenses or indirect cost. "Total compensation" means the cash and noncash dollar value earned by the executive during the Contractor's preceding fiscal year and includes the following (for more information see 17 CFR 229.402(c)(2)): (1) Salary and bonus. (2) Awards of stock, stock options, and stock appreciation rights. Use the dollar amount recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the fiscal year in accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004) (FAS 123R), Shared Based Payments. (3) Earnings for services under non-equity incentive plans. This does not include group life, health, hospitalization or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in favor of executives, and are available generally to all salaried employees. (4) Change in pension value. This is the change in present value of defined benefit and actuarial pension plans. (5) Above-market earnings on deferred compensation which is not tax-qualified.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 43 of 73 (6) Other compensation, if the aggregate value of all such other compensation (e.g., severance, termination payments, value of life insurance paid on behalf of the employee, perquisites or property) for the executive exceeds $10,000. (b) Section 2(d) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. No. 109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government Funding Transparency Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-252), requires the Contractor to report information on subcontract awards. The law requires all reported information be made public, therefore, the Contractor is responsible for notifying its subcontractors that the required information will be made public. (c)(1) Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, (and any modifications to these subcontracts that change previously reported data), the Contractor shall report the following information at http://www.fsrs.gov for each first-tier subcontract. (The Contractor shall follow the instruction s at http://www.fsrs.gov to report the data.) (i) Unique identifier (DUNS Number) for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the subcontractor's parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company. (ii) Name of the subcontractor. (iii) Amount of the subcontract award. (iv) Date of the subcontract award. (v) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract. (vi) Subcontract number (the subcontract number assigned by the Contractor). (vii) Subcontractor's physical address including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (viii) Subcontractor's primary performance location including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (ix) The prime contract number, and order number if applicable. (x) Awarding agency name and code. (xi) Funding agency name and code.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 44 of 73 (xii) Government contracting office code. (xiii) Treasury account symbol (TAS) as reported in FPDS. (xiv) The applicable North American Industry Classification System code (NAICS). (2) By the end of the month following the month of a contract award, and annually thereafter, the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for the Contractor's preceding completed fiscal year at http://www.ccr.gov , if-- (i) In the Contractor's preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received-- (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm .) (3) Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, by the end of the month following the month of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, and annually thereafter, the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for each first-tier subcontractor for the subcontractor's preceding completed fiscal year at http://www.fsrs.gov , if-- (i) In the subcontractor's preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received-- (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 45 of 73 (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm .) (d)(1) If the Contractor in the previous tax year had gross income, from all sources, under $300,000, the Contractor is exempt from the requirement to report subcontractor awards. (2) If a subcontractor in the previous tax year had gross income from all sources under $300,000, the Contractor does not need to report awards to that subcontractor. (e) Phase-in of reporting of subcontracts of $25,000 or more. (1) Until September 30, 2010, any newly awarded subcontract must be reported if the prime contract award amount was $20,000,000 or more. (2) From October 1, 2010, until February 28, 2011, any newly awarded subcontract must be reported if the prime contract award amount was $550,000 or more. (3) Starting March 1, 2011, any newly awarded subcontract must be reported if the prime contract award amount was $25,000 or more. (End of clause) 52.215-19 (a) NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT 1997)

The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing: (1) When the Contractor becomes aware that a change in its ownership has occurred, or is certain to occur, that could result in changes in the valuation of its capitalized assets in the accounting records, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) within 30 days. The Contractor shall also notify the ACO within 30 days whenever changes to asset valuations or any other cost changes have occurred or are certain to occur as a result of a change in ownership. The Contractor shall ­ (1) (2) Maintain current, accurate, and complete inventory records of assets and their costs; Provide the ACO or designated representative ready access to the records upon

(2)

(b)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 46 of 73 request; (3) Ensure that all individual and grouped assets, their capitalized values, accumulated depreciation or amortization, and remaining useful lives are identified accurately before and after each of the Contractor's ownership changes; and Retain and continue to maintain depreciation and amortization schedules based on the asset records maintained before each Contractor ownership change. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k). PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS (JUL 1990)

(4)

(c)

52.222-2

(a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium cost does not exceed [ $0 ] or the overtime premium is paid for work: (1) Necessary to cope with emergencies such as those resulting from accidents, natural disasters, breakdowns of production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature; By indirect-labor employees such as those performing duties in connection with administration, protection, transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation of utilities, or accounting; To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances, and operations in flight or afloat that are continuous in nature and cannot reasonably be interrupted or completed otherwise; or That will result in lower overall costs to the Government.

(2)

(3)

(4)

(b) Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall: (1) Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with present workload, staffing, and other data of the affected unit sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the necessity for the overtime; Demonstrate the effect that denial of the request will have on the contract delivery or performance schedule; Identify the extent to which approval of overtime would affect the performance or payments in connection with other Government contracts, together with identification

(2)

(3)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 47 of 73 of each affected contract; and (4) Provide reasons why the required work cannot be performed by using multishift operations or by employing additional personnel.

52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This Contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address: http://www.gsa.gov/far. I. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES 52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-8 Definitions (JUL 2004) Gratuities (APR 1985) Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984) Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006) Anti-Kickback Procedures (OCT 2010) Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010) Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (AUG 2000) Central Contractor Registration (APR 2008) Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (APR 2010) Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC

7. 8.

52.203-10 52.203-12

9. 10. 11. 12. 13.

52.204-4 52.204-7 52.204-9 52.209-5 52.209-6

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 48 of 73 2010) 14. 15. 52.209-7 52.209-9 Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (JAN 2011) Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jan 2011) Audit and Records - Negotiation (OCT 2010) Order of Precedence--Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997) Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 2010) Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 2010) Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (OCT 2010) Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money (OCT 1997) Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (JUL 2005) Requirements For Cost Or Pricing Data Or Information Other Than Cost Or Pricing Data--Modifications (OCT 2010) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges (Oct 2009) Allowable Cost and Payment (DEC 2002) Fixed Fee (MAR 1997) Notice of Price Evaluation for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) Note: The factor in paragraph (b) is 10 percent. If the offeror elects to waive the price evaluation adjustment check this box [ ]. 28. 29. 30. 52.219-8 52.219-9 52.219-16 Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) Small Business Subcontracting Plan (SEPT 2006) Liquidated Damages - Subcontracting Plan. (JAN 1999)

16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22.

52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-10 52.215-12 52.215-15 52.215-17 52.215-18

23.

52.215-21

24. 25. 26. 27.

52.215-23 52.216-7 52.216-8 52.219-4

31.

52.219-25

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 49 of 73 Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program - Disadvantaged Status Reporting (DEC 2010) Payment For Overtime Premiums (JUL 1990) (a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium does not exceed *-0- or the overtime premium is paid for work --

32.

52.222-2

33. 34. 35. 36.

52.222-3 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-35

Convict Labor (JUN 2003) Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999) Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2010) Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2010) Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (DEC 2004) Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (AUG 2003) Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) Toxic Chemical Release Reporting (AUG 2003) Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving. (SEP 2010) Buy American Act - Supplies.( JUN 2003) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases. (JUN 2008) Utilization of Indian Organizations and Indian-Owned Economic Enterprises (JUN 2000)

37. 38.

52.222-36 52.222-37

39.

52.222-39

40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48.

52.222-50 52.223-5 52.223-6 52.225-13 52.223-14 52.223-18 52.225-1 52.225-13 52.226-1

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 50 of 73 49. 50. 52.227-1 52.227-2 Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007) Rights in Data - General (DEC 2007) Additional Data Requirements (JUN 1987) Insurance - Liability to Third Persons (MAR 1996) Cost Accounting Standards (OCT 2010) Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices (APR 2005) Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (MAR 2008) Limitation on Withholding of Payments (APR 1984) Interest (OCT 2010) Limitation of Funds (APR 1984) Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986) Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) ­ Alternate I (FEB 2002) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration. (OCT 2003) Disputes (JUL 2002) Protest After Award (AUG 1996)--Alternate I (JUN 1985) Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (APR 1984) Privacy or Security Guards (AUG 1996) Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (APR 1984) Penalties for Unallowable Costs (MAY 2001)

51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. 57. 58. 59. 60. 61. 62.

52.227-14 52.227-16 52.228-7 52.230-2 52.230-3 52.230-6 52.232-9 52.232-17 52.232-22 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33

63. 64. 65. 66.

52.233-1 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.237-2

67. 68. 69.

52.239-1 52.242-1 52.242-3

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 51 of 73 70. 71. 72. 73. 74. 75. 76. 52.242-4 52.242-13 52.243-2 52.244-2 52.244-5 52.244-6 52.245-5 Certification of Final Indirect Costs (JAN 1997) Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) Changes - Cost-Reimbursement (AUG 1987) Subcontracts (OCT 2010) Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996) Subcontracts For Commercial Items (DEC 2010) Government Property (Cost-Reimbursement, Time-and-Material, or Labor-Hour Contracts) (MAY 2004) Government Property Furnished "As Is" (APR 1984) Limitation of Liability--Services (FEB 1997) Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (MAY 2004) Excusable Delays (APR 1984) Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)

77. 78. 79. 80. 81. II.

52.245-19 52.246-25 52.249-6 52.249-14 52.253-1

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CHAPTER 12) CLAUSES Accident and Fire Reporting (APR 2005) Seat Belt Use Policies and Programs (MAY 2005)

1252.223-71 1252.223-73

1252.235-70 Research misconduct (APR 2005) 1252.239-70 Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Requirements (APR 2005) Contractor Testimony (OCT 1994)

1252.242-71

1252.242-70 Dissemination of Information - Educational Institutions (OCT 1994) 1252.242-72 Dissemination of Contract Information (OCT 1994)

1252.242-73 1252.245-70

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 52 of 73 Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (OCT 1994) Government Property Reports (OCT 1994)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 53 of 73

PART III
SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Sample Format for Progress Reports -1 page Contract Pricing Summary - 1 page Instructions For Completing Contract Pricing Summary - 3 pages Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities - 3 pages Past Performance Questionnaire - 3 pages Form DOT F4220.40, Important Notice to Offeror - 1 page The FHWA Billing Instructions for Cost Reimbursement Contracts - 5 pages Proposal Cover Sheet - 2 pages Certification of Data - 1 page

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 54 of 73

PART IV
SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS FAR 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications (JAN 2011) (a) (1) The North American Industry classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541712. (2) The small business size standard is 500 employees. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) (1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certification in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [_] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [_] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c) (1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixedprice contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under twostep sealed bidding procedures; or

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 55 of 73 (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. (iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (vi) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (vii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 56 of 73 (ix) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (x) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xi) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDAdesignated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (xiv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA- designated items. (xv) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvi) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225- 3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (xvii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 57 of 73 (xviii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xix) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran--Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xx) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-- (A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. (2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] ___ (i) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. ___ (A) Basic. ___ (B) Alternate I. ___ (ii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. ___ (iii) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. ___ (iv) 52.222-52 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Certification. ___ (v) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Products (Alternate I only). ___ (vi) 52.223-13, Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 58 of 73 ___ (vii) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. ___ (A) Basic. ___ (B) Alternate I. ___ (viii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date] . These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR Clause Title Date Change

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of Provision) FAR 52.209-7 ­ Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (JAN 2011) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceeding at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means--

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 59 of 73 (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). (b) The offeror [_] has [_] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 60 of 73 (d) The offeror shall enter the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at http://www.ccr.gov (see 52.204-7). "Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (End of provision)

______________________________________________________________________________

TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR NAME: __________________________ BY: ____________________________ (Signature) DATE: _________ _____________ (Title)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 61 of 73 SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS (Please show the RFP number and closing date on the forwarding envelope) NOTE: Security procedures prohibit non-uniformed couriers from delivering material directly to offices in the DOT building. Only uniformed couriers from FedEx and the United Parcel Service, who are dressed in a uniform bearing their organization's name and possessing official identification, may deliver proposals or sealed bids directly to the Office of Acquisition Management. Other couriers and individuals must deliver material to the mail room/visitor's center at the new building's main entrance at 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE. The guard will accept the material, dismiss the courier, and then the material will be examined and xrayed prior to being delivered to the Office of Acquisition Management through the normal building mail delivery procedures, which could add one or more working days. Alternatively, offerors may ask the guard to call the Acquisition Office (x64232) to have someone come down and accept the material once it has been examined; while we will do our best to accommodate such requests, FHWA is not responsible if someone is not immediately available to pick up your proposal. Offerors must make allowances for these procedures in order to assure that offers arrive on time. Bids/offers must be received in the Office of Acquisition Management @ E65-101 by the time and date due, to be considered timely, not just delivered to the mail room/visitor's center. To assist in expediting delivery, the outside of the envelope/package containing the offer must be marked with the completed Optional Form 17, "Offer Label- Notice to Offeror," (see Section J, Attachment 6) which can be found at http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/aaa/forms1.htm. Further, please be advised that all of our mail (items handled by the U.S. Postal Service) is sent out of town for scanning and irradiation prior to delivery to the building. This process can add several days to your mailing time, even from local addresses. Please keep these factors in mind as you determine the best means to deliver your proposal so as to ensure delivery in the Office of Acquisition Management by no later than 3:00 PM EST. NOTE: With respect to The Procurement Integrity Act requirements regarding "proprietary information," your attention is directed to FAR 3.104-4 for a discussion of restrictions and prohibitions. Pursuant to FAR 52.215-1, subparagraph (f) (4), the Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that they are necessary. Facsimile bids/proposals will not be considered for this solicitation.

NOTE:

NOTE:

FAR 52.215-16

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 62 of 73 FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (JUNE 2003)

(a) Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the criteria for allowability in FAR 31.205-10(b) are met. One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer. (b) If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. THIS REQUIREMENT IS DESIGNATED FOR FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates awarding a cost-reimbursement or a cost-plus fixed-fee contract as a result of this solicitation. SUBCONTRACTING PLAN As prescribed by FAR 52.219-9, since the total contract price is expected to exceed $650,000, the offeror shall include a statement in its offer relative to subcontracting opportunities under the proposed contract. The offeror shall state that there will be subcontracting, or that the offeror has determined that all work will be done in-house. If there will be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit with its proposal, a subcontracting plan as prescribed in FAR 52.219-9. If it is determined there will not be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit with its proposal, a statement of circumstances supporting this determination. All subcontracting plans and statements supporting the absences of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable subcontracting plan or a statement supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities shall render the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. The subcontracting plan will become part of the contract. Standard Form LLL Disclosure of Lobbying Activities must be completed and submitted as a part of your cost/price proposal. The Form (see Section J, Attachment No. 4) as revised in 1997 is available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/grants/index.html under the forms section. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY The offeror's proposal shall include a list of Government Furnished Property or facilities that the offeror requests from the US DOT for use on the contract.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 63 of 73 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS NOTE: The Government's evaluation criteria are delineated in Section M, herein. Offerors are advised to carefully review Section M in preparing their proposal submissions. NOTE: Offerors should indicate under Volume I of the proposal the name(s) and title(s) of the person(s) who actually writes the proposal and his/her relationship to the offering company. PROPOSAL FORMAT All Offerors shall submit the following: 1. Proposal Cover Sheet (Attachment No. 8), RFP Section A (Standard Form 33) and RFP Section K. Blocks 12 through 18 of Standard Form 33 must be filled in as appropriate, signed and returned with the offer. Section K of this RFP, "Representations, Certifications, and Acknowledgements" must be filled out, signed by an authorized organizational representative, and returned as part of your proposal. Offerors must make a selection for FAR clause 52.219-4 (See Section I) and return with proposal. In addition, each Offeror must submit an original copy of the proposal volumes and an electronic copy of the proposal shall be submitted to: sarah.khan@dot.gov. The format of the proposal volumes shall be as follows: a) Proposals shall be prepared on 8˝ x 11 inch paper except for foldouts used for charts, tables or figures, which shall not exceed 11 x 17 inches. Foldouts shall not be used for text, and shall count as two pages. b) A page is defined as one side of an 8 ˝ by 11inch paper. Therefore, a piece of paper with printing on both sides is considered two pages. c) Text shall be printed using a font size no less than 12 cpi. d) Page margins shall be a minimum of 1 inch top, bottom and each side. e) No cost/price data shall be included in VOLUME I.

2.

3.

Proposal Submittal Location The original proposal shall be submitted to the following address with an electronic copy submitted as well to Sarah.Khan@dot.gov: Mailing Address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Mail Drop: E65-101

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 64 of 73 Washington, DC 20590 Attn: Ms. Sarah H. Khan (HAAM-40) VOLUME I - TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES PART I -TECHNICAL PROPOSAL The format of the above proposal volume shall be as follows: Volume I ­ "Technical Capabilities" This volume shall consist of three parts: "Part I Technical Dissertation," "Part II - Staffing Proposal," and "Part III - Past Performance." Volume II - "Business and Cost/Price Proposal." Volume I ­ Technical Capabilities Part I ­ Technical A technical discussion describing in detail how you would proceed if awarded a contract. Include the following elements in your technical proposal; see also the statement of work. A. B. C. Technical and management approach. Assumptions, deviations, and exceptions (as necessary). Identify technical uncertainties, and make specific proposals for the resolution of any uncertainties. The names of the proposal writers.

D.

The Technical volume shall not exceed 25 pages in length. Part II ­ Staffing Proposal Tailored resumes of all personnel shall also be included. The resumes shall clearly identify and describe the individual's education, experience and length of service with the company as it relates to the performance of this contract and the desired qualifications identified for that individual's Labor Category. Provide evidence that all proposed personnel are available and committed to fulfill the annual level-of-effort requirements specified for their labor category. Provide letters of commitment for new hires. Principal Investigator (PI) The PI shall have as a minimum an M.S. in Civil Engineering or another related scientific discipline and shall have 15 or more years of experience in using accident, highway inventory,

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 65 of 73 and, traffic data to analyze national highway safety issues and in performing safety countermeasure evaluations. The PI shall have authored at least at least 10 articles related to research involving highway safety countermeasure evaluations and the analysis of accident, highway inventory, and traffic data. The PI shall have experience in acquiring accident, highway inventory, and traffic data from State Departments of Transportation (DOT) and Urban Centers. The PI shall demonstrate experience in using the HSIS and other State DOT data in highway safety research studies. The PI shall also have demonstrated experience in leading the successful performance of a project of a similar size, scope, and complexity as described in the statement of work On-site Lab Manager The lab manager shall have demonstrated experience in successfully managing a laboratory of similar size and with similar duties. The lab manager shall have a minimum of 10 years experience in the use of SYBASE and/or ORACLE for managing and manipulating a large relational database. In addition, the lab manager shall have 10 or more years of experience with SAS and SQL programming and performing data analysis with SAS. The lab manager shall have experience in acquiring accident, highway inventory, and traffic data from State Departments of Transportation and Urban Centers and formatting these data into a "research-ready" database. The lab manager shall have demonstrated experience in manipulating HSIS data and using HSIS data in highway safety research studies. Highway Research Analyst The highway research analyst shall have as a minimum an M.S. in Civil Engineering or another related scientific discipline and shall have 10 or more years of experience in using accident, highway inventory, and traffic data to analyze national highway safety issues and in performing safety countermeasure evaluations. The highway research analyst shall have experience in acquiring accident, highway inventory, and traffic data from State DOTs and Urban Centers. In addition, the highway research analyst shall demonstrate experience in using the HSIS and other State DOT and Urban Center data in highway safety research studies. The highway research analyst shall have demonstrated experience in the successful conduct and performance of highway safety research projects. The highway research analyst shall have authored at least at least 10 articles related to research involving the analysis of accident, highway inventory, and traffic data. Additionally, the highway research analyst shall have experience manipulating data in GIS and GIS platform skills. Statistician The statistician shall have as a minimum an M.S. in Statistics or Mathematics and at least 10 years of experience in the use of a wide range statistical techniques especially generalized linear models such as Poisson and negative binomial models. The statistician shall demonstrate at least three years experience using Empirical-Bayes analysis in highway safety evaluations. The statistician shall demonstrate at least 10 years of experience using accident, highway inventory, and traffic data.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 66 of 73 Computer/Database Specialist The computer/database specialist shall have a minimum of 10 years experience in creating, managing, and manipulating large relational databases of accident, highway inventory, and traffic data. In addition, the computer/database specialist shall have 10 or more years of experience with SAS and SQL programming and with performing data quality checks on accident, highway inventory, and traffic data from State Departments of Transportation and Urban Centers. The computer/database specialist shall demonstrate at least 10 years experience in manipulating HSIS data and formatting HSIS data into "research-ready" databases for highway safety research studies. Marketing Specialist The marketing specialist shall hold at minimum the degree of Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts in Marketing, Graphic/Digital Design, Communications, Web Design, Social Media, or closely related field and a minimum of five years of progressively responsible experience in communications, advertising, and/or promotional activities. The marketing specialist shall have experience in preparing marketing plans and requisite promotional materials, launching new data products, and outreach. The marketing specialist shall also have experience in developing relationships for optimum dissemination at the lowest cost, while maintaining established relationships. The marketing specialist shall have an established written and graphic portfolio supporting experience, as well as references providing the impact of these endeavors. Junior Engineer (Graduate Students) and Administrative Support No qualifications are provided for the above labor categories. However, the offeror is responsible for proposing qualified personnel to perform the assigned duties necessary to accomplish the statement of work. The offeror shall include resumes in the staffing proposal. Government Staffing Estimate The Government's estimate of staffing is shown below. The estimates are advisory. The estimates should be used as a general guide and not be considered as a maximum or minimum limit by the offerors in preparing their proposal. Direct Labor Principal Investigator Lab Manager Highway Research Analyst Statistician/Highway Research Engineer Computer/Database Specialist Junior Engineer Hours 6,750 10,280 11,810 12,580 12,300 13,510

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 67 of 73 Administrative Support Marketing Specialist II 2,260 140

Note: If subcontractors are proposed, the offeror shall state the expected time periods needed to formalize subcontract agreement with each subcontractor after receiving notice to proceed. VOLUME II - BUSINESS AND COST/PRICE PROPOSAL This volume shall include all pricing information and certain general financial/organizational information, as described below: PART I - COST/PRICE INFORMATION Your cost or price proposal shall be specific, complete in every detail, and separate from your technical and staffing proposals. Cost figures must not be shown in the forwarding letter or in the technical or staffing proposals. COST OR PRICE PROPOSAL A. General. 1. Offerors shall submit a budget summary (see Section J, Attachment No. 2) for the entire 60 months contract period of performance and a separate summary for each year of the project and for each task. Budget summaries shall clearly identify the following information as applicable: a. Labor Rates - Direct labor-by-labor categories to include hour, rates and escalation. Anticipated promotions for any personnel shall be included with the escalation calculation. The annual direct labor escalation rate and its basis shall be clearly stated with the proposal. Discuss your proposed rate as compared to historical experience and include when and how escalation will be calculated/implemented. State the number of any additional direct labor (new hires) that will be required during the performance period of this acquisition. b. Productive Hours ­ Detail how you define "direct productive hours" and how vacation, sick and other types of leave are accrued, accounted for, and charged. c. Indirect Rates ­ Discuss your proposed rates for all years. Identify all the various specific indirect rates including what they are (pool and base), and what they are based on (e.g., labor overhead based on direct labor dollars) and how they are applied/calculated. Offerors must provide dollar values as well as percentages. What will the impact be to your indirect rates if awarded this contract?

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 68 of 73 d. Subcontracting/Consultants: If subcontractors and/or individual consultants will be used in carrying out the requirements of this project, the following information concerning the Subcontractor shall be furnished: (1) (2) (3) Name and address of the subcontractor or consultant. Identify the individual's name, positions and the portion of work to be conducted by the subcontractor or consultant. Cost/price proposal (with supporting information as necessary).

NOTE: Prime Contractors/Offerors are responsible for performing a cost/price analysis on all their proposed subcontractors/consultants in accordance with FAR 15.404-3. A cost/price analysis report must accompany each named subcontractor/consultant as defined at FAR 15.404-3. (4) A letter or other statement from each proposed consultant and/or subcontractor indicating that they have been approached on the matter of participation in this project and are willing and able to do so in the terms indicated.

e. Other Direct Costs ­ Offerors must provide a breakout of Other Direct Costs by category (travel, equipment, etc.) NOTE: For pricing purposes, offerors shall use these amounts in their cost proposal unless specific justification for increasing or decreasing these amounts is provided: Computer Hardware/Software & Scientific Equipment (Task F) ­ $72,800 Travel ­ $187,200 (includes travel for 2 State participants from the participating HSIS States and Urban Centers to attend the annual HSIS meeting) Other Division: If other divisions, subsidiaries, a parent or affiliated companies, will perform work or furnish materials under this proposed contract, please provide the name and location of such affiliate and your inter company pricing policy. Right of Examination: By submitting your proposal, you, if selected for negotiation, grant the CO or an authorized representative the right to examine those books, records, documents, and other supporting data that will permit adequate evaluation of the proposed price. This right may be exercised at any time before award. The FHWA may use an independent Contractor for cost and price analyses. f. Profit/Fee: Offerors may propose a fee and its application base. The basis for the

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 69 of 73 amount of fee should be delineated. The fee percentage should be clearly stated. PART II - OTHER FINANCIAL/ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION 1. General Information. You must attach a supplemental sheet providing the following information: a. b. Indicate your fiscal year period (provide month to month dates). Indicate whether the proposed indirect cost rate(s) have been audited and accepted by any Federal audit agency. Give name, location and telephone number of the agency, and the date of acceptance. If no Federal audit has taken place, data supporting the proposed rates over the past three years must accompany the cost proposal. The data shall include a breakdown of the items comprising overhead and G&A, and the base upon which the burdens are computed. Indicate whether your system of control of Government property has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the Government agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether written purchasing procedures exist, and whether your purchasing system has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether your cost estimating system has been approved by any Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether your cost accumulation system has been approved by any Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Attach a current financial statement, including a balance sheet and income statement for the last completed fiscal year. Specify resources available to perform the contract without assistance from any other source. If sufficient funds are not available, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source (i.e., bank loans, letter or lines of credit, etc.).

c.

d.

e.

f.

g.

VOLUME III ­ PAST PERFORMANCE Include a minimum of three completed Past Performance Questionnaires by the Offerors customers (See Section J, Attachment 5).

1.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 70 of 73 The completed questionnaires must be submitted by current (within the last three years) customers (both commercial and Government) involving similar or related services. The completed questionnaires shall be from independent sources. Offerors must submit each completed customer questionnaire in a separate envelope that has been sealed by the customer for confidentiality. The Government may contact the customer point of contact (POC) for verification. POC telephone and facsimile numbers must be accurate and current. The CO will consider such performance information, along with information from other sources, in determining the past performance rating and deciding whether the Offeror is to be considered responsible, as defined in FAR 9.104. The Offeror is responsible for ensuring the questionnaires are completed in a timely manner. List any contract that was terminated for convenience of the Government within the past 3 years, and any contract that was terminated for default within the past 5 years. Briefly explain the circumstances in each instance.

2. 3.

4.

5.

6.

PART IV - SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS (SDB) PARTICIPATION As prescribed by FAR 52.219-9, if the total contract price is expected to exceed $650,000, the offeror shall include a statement in its offer relative to subcontracting opportunities under the proposed contract. The offeror shall state that there will be subcontracting, or that the offeror has determined that all work will be done in-house. If there will be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit a subcontracting plan as prescribed in FAR 52.219-9. If it is determined there will not be subcontracting opportunities, the offeror shall submit a statement of circumstances supporting this determination. All subcontracting plans and statements supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable subcontracting plan or a statement supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities shall render the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. Subcontracting plans must provide breakouts of percentages and dollar values associated with small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, woman-owned businesses, historically black universities, and other minority institutions as compared to the total amount bid for this effort. NOTE: The participation of small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, woman-owned businesses, historically black universities, and other minority institutions, is encouraged. The Government does not have a preset subcontracting goal for this procurement. The SDB participation shall be evaluated in accordance with Section M ­ Evaluation Factors for Award.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 71 of 73 AWARD Until a formal notice of award is issued, no communication by the Government either written or oral shall be interpreted as a promise that an award will be made. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government to the expenditure of public funds. No cost chargeable to the proposed contract can be incurred before receipt of a fully executed contract or specific written authorization from the Contracting Officer. I. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) SOLICITATION PROVISIONS 52.233-2 (a) SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO) shall be served on the CO (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Mr. Frank Waltos, HAAM-20, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Mail Drop: E65-101, Washington, DC 20590. The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

(b)

52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the CO will make their full text available. The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the Offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far or http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60. 52.215-1 52.215-8 52.215-22 Instruction to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004) Order of Precedence Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges--Identification of Subcontract Effort (OCT 2009)

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 72 of 73 NOTE: The Offerors shall provide the information requested and described above under Volume II -Business and Cost/Price Proposal.

II. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 12) SOLICITATION PROVISIONS 52.252-3 ALTERATIONS IN SOLICITATION (APR 1984) None.

Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: 52.252-5 (a)

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN PROVISIONS (APR 1984)

The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. The use in this solicitation of any Department of Transportation Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 12) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the regulation.

(b)

SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD EVALUATION CRITERIA General The Government's source selection decision will be based on the following four factors: (A) Technical; (B) Cost; (C) Past Performance; and (D) Small Disadvantaged Business Participation. The method of evaluation for each of these factors is described below. The ultimate award decision will be made based on a determination of overall best value, each of the four factors considered. A. Technical The technical proposal will be evaluated based on the following criteria in descending order of importance. 1. Offeror's Demonstrated Technical Competence as Reflected in their Proposal. (Subfactors b and c are of equal importance.) a. Demonstration of a sound technical and management approach to designing and maintaining the Highway Safety Information System as illustrated by the offeror's response to the tasks described in the Statement of Work.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 73 of 73 b. Knowledge of large highway safety databases and of existing HSIS databases and their use in highway safety research/analyses. c. Expertise in evaluation of highway safety countermeasures, research and analysis, including knowledge of current major transportation safety evaluation efforts on a national level. d. Demonstrated experience and successful performance of a project of a similar size, scope and complexity as described in the statement of work. 2. Offeror's Demonstrated Resources to Complete the Contract Requirements Satisfactorily and on Schedule. (Sub-factors a and b are of equal importance.) a. Demonstrated experience, competency, and expertise of the Principal Investigator in managing studies of this scope and in communicating effectively with the Government, Government's partners, and Government's customers. b. Demonstrated experience, competency, and expertise of the other proposed staff to complete the work satisfactorily as outlined in the statement of work. c. Demonstrated experience, competency, and expertise of the proposed staff in technical writing and their ability to produce concise, understandable reports as reflected in the proposal. B. Cost

In addition to the criteria listed above, relative cost will be considered in the ultimate award decision. Cost proposals will be analyzed to assess realism and probable cost to the Government. The proposed costs may be adjusted, for the purpose of evaluation, based upon the results of the cost realism assessment. C. Past Performance

The Government will evaluate the relevant merits of each offeror's past performance on the basis of its reputation with its former customers. The Government may review all or some of the following areas regarding past performance. The lack of a performance record may result in an unknown performance risk assessment, which will neither be used to the advantage or disadvantage of the offeror. ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Timeliness; Delivery or Performance; Problem Responsiveness; Quality of Purchased Product or Services; Cost Control; Technical Support; and Delivered Quantities.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Page 74 of 73 D. SDB Participation

The Government will consider the following information in evaluating the offeror's proposed SDB Participation: 1. 2. 3. 4. Percentage of total contract value. Complexity of work to be performed by SDBs (i.e. work considered technology or research intensive. Specific identification of SDB subcontractors with associated work. Reasonableness of the offerors proposed plans and procedures for attaining the proposed SDB targets.

BASIS FOR AWARD - Relative Importance of the Evaluation Factors The Government will accept the offer that is considered the most advantageous to the Government using a tradeoff method of selection. Of the four factors, (A) Technical, (B) Cost/Price, (C) Past Performance, and (D) SDB Participation, Technical is considered the most important. The criteria are listed below in descending order of importance: A. B. C. D. Technical Cost Past Performance Small Disadvantaged Business Participation

When combined, Technical, Past Performance, and SDB Participation are significantly more important than Cost.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 1 FORMAT for MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORTS

A.

Accomplishments/Significant Findings this Period:

B.

Work Planned for Next Period:

C.

Effort Expended by Key Personnel:

Effort (Staff-Hours)
Employee Name Contract Time Allocated Cumulative Last Period Cumulative This Period

Senior Project Manager: Other Key People:

D. Identification of Problems/Recommended Solutions:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No.3 Page 1 of 3 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING CONTRACT PRICING SUMMARY Offerors are instructed to prepare their cost proposals in sufficient detail to permit thorough and complete evaluation by the Government. A separate DOT F 4220.44 is required for the basic and each option period (if applicable). The supporting data for the DOT F 4220.44 shall be as follows. (NOTE: The DOT F 4220.44 shall be used to implement the requirements of the SF 1411 and does not relieve offerors from complying with FAR 15.804-6 requirements.) (a) The basis for all proposed rates (including a copy of the indirect cost pool and a computational trail used to arrive at the proposed rate shall be clearly identified when the proposed rates are not approved by a Government audit agency for use in proposals; or approved by the Government audit agency, but the approval is 12 months or more old. State rather an approved (within 12 months) Government audit agency rate was used. (b) The information below clarifies FAR 15.804-6 requirements for specific cost elements. The cost elements listed below shall be supported, as a minimum, with the following: 1. DIRECT MATERIAL. A. Purchased Parts: Provide a consolidated priced summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or contract line items being proposed and the basis for pricing (vendor quotes, invoices prices, etc.). Give details on an attached schedule. Subcontracted Items: Show the total cost of subcontract effort and provide a separate SF 1411 and supporting DOT F 4220.44 for each subcontractor or written quotations from the prospective subcontractor in accordance with FAR 15.806-2. Other. (1) Raw Material: Consists of material in a form or state that requires further processing. Provide priced quantities of items required for the proposal. Show total cost and give details on an attached schedule. (2) Standard Commercial Items: Consists of items that the offeror normally fabricates, in whole or in part, and that are generally stocked in inventory. Provide an appropriate explanation of the basis for pricing. If price is based on cost, provide a cost breakdown; if priced at other than cost, provide justification for exemption from submission of cost or pricing data, as required by FAR 15.804-3(e). Show total cost and give details on an attached schedule.

B.

C.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 3 Page 2 of 3 2. MATERIAL OVERHEAD.
Show cost here only if your accounting system provides for such cost segregation and only if this cost is not computed as part of labor overhead (item 4) or General and Administrative (G&A) (item 6).

3. DIRECT LABOR.
Show the hourly rate and the total hours for each individual (if known) and discipline of direct labor proposed. Indicate whether actual rates or escalated rates are used. If escalation is included, state the degree (percent) and rationale used.

4. LABOR OVERHEAD. See paragraph (a) above. 5. OTHER DIRECT COSTS (A) Special Tooling/Equipment. Identify and support specific equipment and unit prices. Use a separate schedule if necessary. (B) Travel. Identify and support each trip proposed and the persons (or disciplines) designated to make each trip. Identify and support transportation and per diem rates. (C) Individual Consultant Services. Identify and support the proposed contemplated consultants. State the amount of service estimated to be required and the consultant's quoted daily or hourly rate. (D) Other Costs. List all other direct charge costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., services of specialized trades, computer services, preservation, packaging and packing, leasing of equipment) and provide bases for pricing. 6. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE. See paragraph (a) above and base approved by a Government audit agency for use in proposals. 7. ROYALTIES.
If more than $250, provide the following information on a separate page for each separate royalty or license fee; name and address of licensor; date of license agreement; patent numbers, patent

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 3 Page 3 of 3
application serial numbers, or other basis on which the royalty is payable; brief description (including any part of model numbers of each contract item or component on which the royalty is payable); percentage or dollar rate of royalty per unit; unit price of contract item; number of units; and total dollar amount of royalties. In addition, if specifically requested by the Contracting Officer, provide a copy of the current license agreement and identification of applicable claims of specific patents. (See FAR 27.204 and 31.205-37)

8. SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST.
Enter the total of all direct and indirect costs excluding Contract Facilities Capital and Cost of Money and Fee or Profit.

9. CONTRACT FACILITIES CAPITAL AND COST OF MONEY.
Show total cost on line 9 and attach supporting calculations on the CASB-CMF forms. (See FAR 31.20510).

10. SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST
Enter the total of all proposed costs excluding Fee or Profit and insert this amount in Section 6.A. of SF 1411.

11. FEE OR PROFIT. Enter this proposed Fee or Profit and insert this amount in Section 6.B. of SF 1411. 12. TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE OR PROFIT. Enter the total estimated cost including Fee or Profit. (a) Under the column entitled, "Reference," identify the attachment where information supporting the specific cost element may be found.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 4 Page 1 of 3

DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
Complete this form to disclose lobbying activities pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352 (See reverse for public burden disclosure)
1. Type of Federal Action: ____a. contract ____b. grant ____c. cooperative agreement ____d. loan ____e. loan guarantee ____f. loan insurance 2. Status of Federal Action: ____a. bid /offer/application ____b. initial award ____c. post award 3. Report Type: ____a. initial filing ____b. material change For Material Change Only: year _____ quarter ______ date of last report___________

4. Name and Address of Reporting Entry: ___Prime ___Subawardee Tier ________, if known:

5. If Reporting Entry in No. 4 is Subawardee, Enter Name and Address of Prime:

Congressional District, if known: ______________ 6. Federal Department/Agency:

Congressional District, if known: ________________ 7. Federal Program Name/Description:

CFDA Number, if applicable: ____________________ 8. Federal Action Number, if known: ___________________ 10. a. Name and Address of Lobbying Entity (if individual, last name, first name, MI): 9. Award Amount, if known: $____________ b. Individuals Performing Services (including address if different from No. 10a) (last name, first name, MI): (attach Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A, if necessary) (attach Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A, if necessary) 11. Amount of Payment (check all that apply): $___________________ ___actual ___planned _______________________________________________________ 12. Form of Payment (check all that apply): ____a. cash ____b. in-kind; specify: nature_________________ value _________________ 13. Type of Payment (check all that apply): ____a. retainer ____b. one-time fee ____c. commission ____d. contingent fee ____e. deferred ____f. other; specify: _________________________

14. Brief Description of Services Performed or to be Performed and Date(s) of Service, including officer(s), employee(s) or Member(s) contacted, for Payment Indicate in Item 11: (attach Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A, if necessary) 15. Continuation Sheet(s) SF-LLL-A attached: 16. Yes_____ No____ Signature: ___________________________________ Print Name: __________________________________ Title: _______________________________________ Telephone No.: _____________ Date: _____________

Information requested through this form is authorized by Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1352. This disclosure of lobbying activities is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed by the tier above when this transaction was made or entered into. This disclosure is required pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352. This information will be reported to the Congress semi-annually and will be available for public inspection. Any person who fails to file the required disclosure shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

Federal Use Only:

Authorized for Local Reproduction Standard Form-LLL

Approved by OMB 0348-0046

DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
CONTINUATION SHEET DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 4 Page 2 of 3 Reporting Entity:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 4 Page 3 of 3 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION OF SF-LLL, DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
This disclosure form shall be completed by the reporting entity, whether subawardee or prime Federal recipient at the initiation or receipt of a covered Federal action, or a material change to a previous filing, pursuant to title 31 U.S.C. section 1352. The filing of a form is required for each payment or agreement to make payment to any lobbying entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with a covered Federal action . Use the SF-LLL-A Continuation Sheet for additional information if the space on the form is inadequate. Complete all items that apply for both the initial filing and material change report. Refer to the implementing guidance published by the Office of Management and Budget for additional information. 1. 2. 3. Identify the type of covered Federal action for which lobbying activity is and/or has been secured to influence the outcome of a covered Federal action. Identify the status of the covered Federal action. Identify the appropriate classification of this report. If this is a followup report caused by a material change to the information previously reported, enter the year and quarter in which the change occurred. Enter the date of the last previously submitted report by this reporting entity for this covered Federal action. Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the reporting entity. Include Congressional District, if known. Check the appropriate classification of the reporting entity that designates if it is, or expects to be, a prime or subaward recipient. Identify the tier of the subawardee, e.g., the first subawardee of the prime is the 1st tier. Subawards include but are not limited to subcontracts, subgrants and contract awards under grants. If the organization filing the report in item 4 checks  Subawardeethen enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the prime Federal recipient. Include Congressional District, if known. Enter the name of the Federal agency making the award or loan commitment. Include at least one organizational level below agency name, if known. For example, Department of Transportation, United States Coast Guard. Enter the Federal program name or description for the covered Federal action (item 1). If known, enter the full Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for grants, cooperative agreements, loans and loan commitments. Enter the most appropriate Federal identifying number available for the Federal action identified in item 1 (e.g., Request for Proposal (RFP) number; Invitation for Bid (IFB) number; grant announcement number; the contract, grant, or loan award number; the application/proposal control number assigned by the Federal agency). Include prefixes, e.g.,  RFP-DE-90-001. For a covered Federal action where there has been an award or loan commitment by the Federal agency, enter the Federal amount of the award/loan commitment for the prime entity identified in items 4 or 5. (a) Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the lobbying entity engaged by the reporting entity identified in item 4 to influence the covered Federal action. (b) Enter the full names of the individual(s) performing services, and include full address if different from 10 (a). Enter Last Name, First Name, and Middle Initial (MI). Enter the amount of compensation paid or reasonably expected to be paid by the reporting entity (item 4) to the lobbying entity (item 10). Indicate whether the payment has been made (actual) or will be made (planned). Check all boxed that apply. If this is a material change report, enter the cumulative amount of payment made or planned to be made. Check the appropriate box(es). Check all boxes that apply. If payment is made through an in-kind contribution, specify the nature and value of the in-kind payment. Check the appropriate box(es). Check all boxes that apply. If other, specify nature. Provide a specific and detailed description of the services that the lobbyist has performed, or will be expected to perform, and the date(s) of any services rendered. Include all preparatory and related activity, not just time spent in actual contact with Federal officials. Identify the Federal official(s) or employee(s) contacted or the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) of Congress that were contacted. Check whether or not a SF-LLL-A Continuation Sheet(s) is attached. The certifying official that sign and date the form, print his/her name, title, and telephone number.

4.

5. 6. 7. 8.

9. 10.

11.

12. 13. 14.

15. 16.

Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 30 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0348-0046), Washington, DC 20503.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No.5 Page 1 of 3 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE
Referencee Information: Provide the following information for the Organization that performed the referenced work: Referencee Information: Offeror's (Prime Name: __________________________________________________________________ Referencee's Name:______________________________________________________________________ Solicitation Number & Title:_______________________________________________________________ Organization/Person Providing the Reference Information: Provide the following information for the Organization and Person/Point of Contact (POC) providing the reference (to assist us in tracking responses received and resolving any conflicts in the evaluation process if necessary): Reference Information: Organization Name: _______________________________________________________________

Questionnaire Completion Date:___________________________________________________________ Name of Contact: _______________________________________________________________________ Contact Numbers: Organization/Office: Position Title: Telephone:_______________________Facsimile:_______________________ _______________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

Reference Project Information: Provide the following information about the referenced project. Reference Project Information: Customer Organization/Office: Project Title: ________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

POC Period of Involvement:_____________________________________________________________ Type of Contract:______________________________________________________________________ Start Period of Performance: Date: _____________________ Length_____________________ Contract Value: Initial____________________ Current____________________

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No.5 Page 2 of 3 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE For the following questions, please circle/check the appropriate rating. Comment lines are provided for additional information if the #2 or #1 rating is given (however the comment lines may be used to provide any additional information deemed noteworthy).

High 1. QUALITY OF SERVICE: 5 4 3 2

Low 1

This area deals with compliance of contract requirements, to include appropriateness of personnel and technical excellence. 2. TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE: 5 4 3 2 1 This area deals with the contractor s ability to meet milestones and delivery schedules, to include responsiveness to technical direction, completion of efforts on time including wrapup and contract administration. 3. PRICE/COST CONTROL: 5 4 3 2 1 This area deals with the contractor s ability to control price/cost escalation during performance to include appropriate budgetary estimates, current/accurate/complete billings/invoices, relationship of negotiated costs to actual, claim submissions, cost efficiencies, and change order issues. 4. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: 5 4 3 2 1 This area deals with the contractor s commitment to satisfaction and cooperative/reasonable businesslike behavior with own staff and customers to include: effective management, responsiveness to contract requirements, operates with honesty and integrity, prompt notification of problems, flexible and proactive qualities, effective contractor-recommended solutions, and effective subcontracting and teaming arrangements. Comments (attach additional pages as necessary): GENERAL INFORMATION: Please provide answers to the following questions. 1. Has the contractor ever been given a cure notice, show cause notice, suspension of progress payments, or other letters directing the correction of a performance problem; or has this contract been partially or completely terminated, or is there any pending termination actions? ( ) No ( ) Yes If yes: ( ) Default ( ) Convenience; and please explain:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 5 Page 3 of 3 2. Changes in contract dollar value throughout the life of the contract are/were attributable, for the most part, to: ( ) Government-issued change orders ( ) claims submitted by the contractor ( ) other Government actions ( ) other contractor actions (please explain below) 3. Based on this contractor's overall performance, would you award this contractor another Government contract? ( ) Yes ( ) No 4. If no, please explain:

If any of the above responses are based on adverse past performance, have you discussed it with the contractor and has the contractor had an opportunity to comment? ( ) Not Applicable ( ) Yes ( ) No If yes or no, please explain:

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 6

OF-17 (12/93) Offer Label FAR (48) CFR 53.214(g)) FAR (48) CFR 53.2151(h)) NOTICE TO OFFEROR
1. This label may only be used on envelopes larger than 156 mm (6 1/8 inches) in height and 292 mm (11  inches) in length. 2. Print or type your name and address in the UPPER left corner of the envelope containing your offer. 3. Complete the bottom portion of this form and paste it on the LOWER left corner of the envelope, unless the envelope is 156 mm by 292 mm ( 6 1/8 inches by 11 inches) or smaller.

OFFER

SAMPLE
SOLICITATION NO.: DTFH61-11-R-00014 DATE FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: June 6, 2011 TIME FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: 3:00 p.m. EST. OFFICE DESIGNATED TO RECEIVE OFFERS Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, #E65-101 Washington, DC 20590 Attention: Lise S. Lyles, HAAM-40 D

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 9 CERTIFICATION OF DATA (MAY 2005) NOTICE: The Secretary of Transportation has determined that this certification shall be retained in accordance with Section 4301(b)(1)(B)(i)(II) of the Federal Acquisition Reform Act (Public Law 104-106, 41 U.S.C. 425, note) and DOT Memorandum dated July 17, 1996. (a) The offeror represents and certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief, the information and/or data (e.g., company profile; qualifications; background statements; brochures) submitted with its offer is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of its offer. (b) The offeror understands that any inaccurate data provided to the Department of Transportation may subject the offeror, its subcontractors, its employees, or its representatives to: (1) prosecution for false statements pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001 and/or; (2) enforcement action for false claims or statements pursuant to the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 and 49 CFR Part 31 and/or; (3) termination for default under any contract resulting from its offer and/or; (4) debarment or suspension. (c) The offeror agrees to obtain a similar certification from its subcontractors. Signature: ______________________________________________________________ Date: __________________________________________________________________ Typed Name and Title: ____________________________________________________ Company Name: _________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ This certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 1001.

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 2

PAGE

OF

PAGES

CONTRACT PRICING SUMMARY
(For New Contracts Including Letter Contracts) (See Instructions on Reverse)
This form is for use in support of Standard Form 1411 prescribed by GSA, FAR (48 CFR) 53.215-2(c), Format 7A Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 5 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the FAR Secretariat (VRS), Office of Federal Acquisition and Regulatory Policy, GSA, Washington, D.C. 20405; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (2105-0517), Washington, D.C. 20503. NAME OF OFFEROR SUPPLIES AND/OR SERVICES TO BE FURNISHED OMB Control No. 2105-0517 Expiration Date: 4/30/97

HOME OFFICE ADDRESS

DIVISION(S) AND LOCATIONS(S) WHERE WORK IS TO BE PERFORMED

GOV'T SOLICITATION NO.

DETAIL DESCRIPTION OF COST ELEMENTS
1. DIRECT MATERIAL A. PURCHASED PARTS B. SUBCONTRACTED ITEMS C. OTHER -- (1) RAW MATERIAL (2) STANDARD COMMERCIAL ITEMS EST COST ($) TOTAL EST COST REFERENCE

TOTAL DIRECT MATERIAL
2. MATERIAL OVERHEAD 3. DIRECT LABOR (Rate % X $ base =) ESTIMATED HOURS RATE/ HOUR EST COST ($)

TOTAL DIRECT LABOR
4. LABOR OVERHEAD O.H. RATE X BASE = EST COST ($)

TOTAL LABOR OVERHEAD
5. OTHER DIRECT COSTS A. SPECIAL TOOLING/EQUIPMENT EST COST ($)

TOTAL SPECIAL TOOLING\EQUIPMENT
B. TRAVEL (1) TRANSPORTATION (2) PER DIEM OR SUBSISTENCE EST COST ($)

TOTAL TRAVEL
C. INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT SERVICES EST COST ($)

TOTAL INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
D. OTHER EST COST ($)

TOTAL OTHER SUBTOTAL DIRECT COST AND OVERHEAD
6. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE (G&A) EXPENSE 7. ROYALTIES 8 9. CONTRACT FACILITIES CAPITAL AND COST OF MONEY 10 11. FEE OR PROFIT 12 (RATE %x$ BASE (I.E., COST ELEMENT NOS. ) =

SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST

SUBTOTAL ESTIMATED COST

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE OR PROFIT

Form DOT F 4220.44 (REV. 10/94)(EXCEL)

PREVIOUS EDITION OBSOLETE

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 7 Page 1 of 4

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
Billing Instructions

Cost Reimbursement Contracts
1. Introduction

Reimbursement procedures related to negotiated cost-type contracts involve the preparation and submission by Contractors of properly prepared vouchers to the Government. These instructions are provided for the use of Contractors in the preparation and submission of vouchers requesting reimbursement for work performed under the contract. The submission of vouchers as suggested herein will keep the correspondence and other causes for delay to a minimum and will thus assure prompt payment to the Contractor. 2. Forms to be Used

In requesting reimbursement, Contractors are urged to use the regular Government voucher forms, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal, SF-1034 (Exhibit A), and Continuation Sheet, SF-1035 (Exhibit B). Or the Contractor may use its own forms, provided the Contractor's forms follow the format of the SF-1034 and SF-1035. 3. Preparation

Each billing shall be prepared in an original and two copies, arranged in two parts as follows and submitted at intervals as specified by the terms of the contract. Each billing must be sequentially numbered, beginning with 1 for each contract. Billings for different contracts may not be co-mingled on a single billing. Part I - Summary of All Costs (See Exhibit A attached) This portion consists of a listing of cost elements, by general categories, i.e., direct labor, overhead, etc., showing the amounts incurred during the period covered by the billing. The reimbursement costs incurred, and the dates for the period for which billing is made, must fall within the period as set forth in the contract.

1

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 7 Page 2 of 4
The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for support service contracts: "I certify that the hours and/or materials identified are allocable to the job being billed and that the costs are justified as attributable solely to the performance of this Government contract." The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for all other cost reimbursement contracts other than support services: "I certify that all payments requested have been incurred, are allocable to this contract and have not been billed previously." Part II - Details of Direct and Indirect Costs: This part consists of a detailed statement of direct and indirect costs and supports each category of costs shown in Part I. The Contractor shall include a breakdown for the current billing period and cumulative totals since contract execution. The detailed information to be continued in Part II is to assist the Contracting Officer and program office personnel in verifying voucher vis-a-vis contract performance. The categories of costs should be itemized and described as follows: a. Direct Labor

Direct labor costs consist of salaries and wages paid for scientific, technical and other work performed pursuant to the terms of the contract and shall be billed as follows: List employees whose salaries or wages, or portions thereof, were charged to the contract; show the name, title, rate, days (or hours) worked and amount for each individual. Indicate if the labor rates include fringe benefits. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as a direct cost at a percentage of total labor costs, show the rate and amount as a separate item. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as an indirect cost, such costs shall be billed separately as an indirect cost item. The cost of direct labor charged directly to the contract shall be supported by time records maintained in the Contractor's office. (NOTE: Fringe benefits, bonuses, etc., are usually treated as indirect costs for inclusion in the overhead pool; however, they may be treated as direct labor costs or as "Other Direct Costs" if this treatment is in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards). Premium pay is the difference between the rates normally paid on a straight time basis, and amounts paid for overtime or shift work. Such pay is not included in the direct labor and shall not be included in the billing for "direct labor" unless the Contractor has permission to utilize premium rates.

2

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 7 Page 3 of 4
Unless provided for in the contract, premium pay must be authorized by the Contracting Officer in advance. Billings for unauthorized premium pay cause delays in payment due to suspensions and exchange of correspondence. Citations to authorizations for premium pay will avoid delays in payment. Authorized premium pay may be shown in Part I as a single item; in Part II it must be separately itemized for each position or job category showing the amount and a citation of the Contracting Officer's letter of authorization. If there is an annual escalation clause for direct labor in the contract, these rates shall not be exceeded in the billings. b. Materials and Supplies

Only those items which the Contractor normally treats as "direct costs" shall be claimed under this heading. Items costing less than $25 should be listed by category of materials or supplies (e.g., film, rentals, office supplies). Materials and supplies which exceed a unit price of $25 should be billed separately. Show the description and dollar amount of individual items. All materials and supplies charges must be supported by the Contractor's records. c. Other Direct Costs

NOTE: Other direct costs represent expenses related directly to the contract, provided such expenses are consistently treated as direct costs rather than indirect costs. d. Travel

When authorized in the contract as a direct cost, travel costs directly related to specific contract performance may be billed as a direct cost. Travel costs detail in Part II shall include: 1. Name of traveler and official title.

2. Purpose of trip.
3. Dates of departure and return to starting point (station or airport).

4. Transportation costs, identified as to rail, air, private automobile (including mileage and rate) and taxi.
5. Unless otherwise authorized, travel costs will be reimbursed based on DOT Travel Regulations. This regulation provides for CONUS Per Diem reimbursement prescribed by GSA. Current regulation limits first and last days of travel to 3/4 Per Diem for each day.

3

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 7 Page 4 of 4
If travel is made at other than economy fares, a statement shall be included indicating the reason for the deviation. Also, a copy of the air or rail ticket shall be included. e. Consultant Fees

Part II of the voucher shall include the consultant's name, rate, number of days or parts of days and the total amount of charges. f. Subcontract Payments

The voucher shall include the name of the subcontractor and the total amount of charges, supported by a break-down by elements of cost. g. Equipment

Nonexpendable equipment must be identified, showing name of article, make, model, number of units, unit cost, and total cost. h. Indirect Costs

Pending the establishment of final negotiated indirect rates for the Contractor's fiscal year or period of contract, whichever is applicable, indirect costs, i.e., overhead, fringe benefits and general and administrative expense must be billed at rates set forth in the contract. Rates can be changed during performance of the contract only by contract modification. When the rates are changed, the Contractor shall show revised rates on succeeding vouchers. i. Fixed-Fee

Fixed-Fee, is to be billed in accordance with the terms of the contract. j. Cost of Money

If applicable, cost of money shall be billed at rates set forth in the contract. k. Withholding

Indicate the amount of cost/fee to be deducted from the cost subtotal, along with the percentage of withholding, as set forth in the contract.

4

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 8

Proposal Cover Sheet
Number:
Solicitation

DTFH61-11-R-00028 "Development, Operation, And Maintenance of the Highway Safety Information System -VI "
Negotiator: Sarah H. Khan

Title: Closing Date: Name:

 U.S. Postal Address: 

 Federal Express Address: 

Offeror

Address:

Primary
Point(s) of Contact

Alternate

Name: Title: Telephone #: Facsimile #: E-mail:
Include a statement in accordance with FAR 52.215-1(c)(2)(iii):

Statement

Name & Title
Authorized Negotiator(s)

Telephone #

Facsimile #

E-mail Address:

Proposal Signature

Name & title of person authorized to sign the proposal.

Signature

Date

Page - 1 -

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 8

The Proposed Team Summary:
Input the below information for the prime Contractor and each subcontractor or consultant:

Check the appropriate box(es) Business Size / Type Minority Size 4 Types 4 Institutions 4 HBCU Contract Type 3 AIIHI SDB

Name, Address, Point of Contact & Phone Number

WO

DUNS # 1

Cost/Price 2

Profit/Fee 2

Total 2

Subtotals: TOTAL:
1 2

Dun & Bradstreet's Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Includes base period and all options (if any). Include Cost/Price and Profit/Fee breakdown for subcontractors/consultants if known. 3 Contract Type: (FFP / FPI / CPFF / CPIF / CPAF / IDIQ / OTHER) 4 Business Representation in accordance with RFP Section K, FAR 52.204-8 and FAR 52.219-1

Legend

LB SB

Size Large Business Small Business

SDB 8(a) VO WO

Types Small Disadvantaged Business Concern Small Business Administration 8(a) Program Veteran Owned Woman-Owned Business Concern

Minority Institutions HBCU Historically Black Colleges and Universities HSI Hispanic Serving Institutions AIIHL American Indian Institutions of Higher Learning

Page - 2 -

HSI

8(a)

VO

LB

SB

DTFH61-11-R-00028 Attachment No. 8

Page - 3 -

