Statement of Work (SOW) For B-1B LOA Range Upgrade Phase II

DATE: 22 Nov 10

PREPARING ORGANIZATION: OC-ALC/76 CMXG TINKER AFB OK 73145

1

1. SECTION I 足SCOPE The purpose of this Statement of Work (SOW) is to define the requirements for the design, development, installation and deployment of a new AN/APQ-164 Antenna Array Test Set (AATS) in support of the B-1B Low Observable Antenna (LOA). 1.1 Contractor Information

1.1.1 Contractor Personnel The selection, hiring, assignment of duties, reassignment of duties, transfer, supervision, management, control, and termination of Contractor employees in performance of this SOW shall be the responsibility and prerogative of the Contractor. The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees wear appropriate attire, depending on particular job assignment, and be easily recognized as Contractor employees. 1.1.2 Contractor Employee General Requirements The Contractor shall ensure Contractor employees who are required to communicate with Government personnel have the ability to clearly read, write, and speak English. 1.2 Safety Requirements The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees receive and comply with safety briefings IAW Safety Appendix C. 1.3 Environmental Requirements

1.3.1 Compliance with Laws and Regulations The Contractor shall be knowledgeable of and comply with all applicable Federal, State, and Local laws, regulations, and requirements regarding environmental protection. In the event environmental laws and regulations change during the term of this contract, the Contractor shall be required to comply with such laws when they come into effect. 1.3.2 Notification of Environmental Spills In the event of an environmental spill or release of substance, the Contractor shall call the Tinker AFB Command Post at 911 who in turn will contact Environmental Management Spill Response Team. 1.4 Manager Requirements The Contractor shall ensure the following manager requirements are accomplished: 1.4.1 Contract Manager The Contractor shall provide a Contract Manager and alternate who shall be responsible for the performance of the work and shall have full authority to act for the Contractor on all matters relating to the performance of this contract. The Contract Manager shall:

2

a. Be responsible for all work performed under this SOW. b. Provide in writing to the PCO, within ten (10) working days after contract award, the Contract Manager and alternate names with both duty hour and non-duty hour telephone numbers. c. Deliver all plans, reports, correspondence, briefings, and documents required by this SOW, including forms, CDRLs, and required notifications in Microsoft (MS) Office format via e-mail unless otherwise directed by the COTR and approved by the PCO. d. Be available to be contacted by telephone during duty hours to discuss issues pertaining to the project and attend meetings requested by the PCO or COTR. e. Support conference calls as coordinated by the COTR and/or PCO and provide agendas to the PCO and COTR. f. Identify, review, analyze, and forecast all budgetary and financial impacts to program.

1.5 Quality System and Quality Program Requirements The Contractor shall ensure the quality system and quality program meets the following requirements: 1.5.1 Quality System The Contractor shall at a minimum provide and maintain a quality system that adheres to the requirements of International Standard ISO 9001-2000.

1.6 Conservation Of Utilities The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees comply with conservation of utilities, as follows: a. Lighting and equipment shall be used only in areas where and when work is actually being performed. b. Mechanical equipment controls for heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems shall not be adjusted by Contractor employees. c. Water faucets and valves shall be turned off after usage.

2. SECTION II 足 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS General Information: The Contractor shall ensure requirements in this SOW are accomplished IAW the latest version of the following documentation if it does not impact cost and delivery schedules or if a conflict does not arise in implementation of the new procedures. If any of the preceding conditions occur, a written evaluation, along with specific backup data and estimated cost data for those changes which impact the Contractor's performance shall be provided to the COTAR within ten (10) workdays after receipt of an updated publication. The Contractor shall not incorporate these publication changes until approved by the COTAR. In the event there are 3

conflicts between two or more referenced documents, the Contractor shall provide written evaluation, along with specific backup data to the COTAR within ten (10) workdays after knowledge of the conflict. Resolution of the conflict will be provided by the COTAR.

2.1 Department of Defense (DoD) Specifications NOTE: DoD Specifications can be accessed through the ASSIST Quick Search web site: http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch/

Publication Number None

Title N/A

Basic Date N/A

Latest Chg Number N/A

Latest Chg Date N/A

2.2 DoD Standards NOTE: DoD Standards can be accessed through the ASSIST Quick Search web site: http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch/

Publication Number DoD 4161.2-M

Title DoD Manual for the Performance of Contract Property Administration Information Security Program National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement Joint Ethics Regulation

Basic Date Dec 1991

Latest Chg Number N/A

Latest Chg Date N/A

DoD 5200.1-R DoD 5220.22-M

Jan 1997 Jan 1995

Chapter 1 Chapter 2

31 Jul 1997 01 May 2000

DoD 5220.22-M Supplement 1 DOD 5500.7 R

Feb 1995 Aug 1993

N/A Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4

N/A 02 Nov 1994 25 Mar 1996 12 Dec 1997 06 Aug 1998

2.3 Other Government Publications NOTE: DoD Documents can be accessed at: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/. Air Force Documents can be accessed at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/. HQ AFMC Documents can be accessed at: https://www.afmcmil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/. Technical Orders that are available on the web can be accessed at: http://www.pdsm.wpafb.af.mil/toprac/to-syste.htm . 4

DoD Forms Index can be accessed at: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm Air Force - http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/forms/majcom.asp?org=AF . HQ AFMC 足 https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmcforms/ . AFMC Forms Index can be accessed at: https://www.afmcmil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/ind/09/AFMCI-9.pdf . OPM Forms Index can be accessed at: http://www.opm.gov/forms/ . OC-ALC Forms Index can be accessed at: https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/tafbforms/docs/htm/ocforms.htm . GSA Forms Index can be accessed at: http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/formslibrary.do?pageTypeId=8199&channelPage=/e p/channel/gsaOverview.jsp&channelId=-13253 . 2.3.1 Air Force Instructions (AFI)
Publication Number AFI 31-101 AFI 31-204 AFI 31-401 Title The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO) Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision Information Security Program Management Basic Date 01 Mar 2003 14 Jul 2000 01 Nov 2005 N/A N/A Latest Chg Number N/A Latest Chg Date N/A

2.3.2 Air Force Regulations
Publication Number None Title N/A Basic Date N/A Latest Chg Number N/A Latest Chg Date N/A

2.3.3 Air Force Manuals (AFM)
Publication Number None Title N/A Basic Date N/A Latest Chg Number N/A Latest Chg Date N/A

2.3.4 USAF Technical Orders
Publication Title Basic Date Latest Chg Latest Chg

5

Number 00-5-1 12P1-4-30-8-4

AF Technical Order System Test Set Procedures Depot Maintenance, Radar Set, Antenna Array/Gimbal Assy.

15 Sep 2003

Number 001

Date 01 Mar 2004

Note: Forms and Publications. The Government will provide federal forms and publications expressly required to perform the work in this SOW. These may be obtained via the Internet at https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/tafbforms/default.htm or http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/. In the event that a federal form or publication is not available online, the Government will provide the federal form or publication.

3 SECTION III 足 REQUIREMENTS The Contractor shall ensure the following requirements are accomplished as follows: NOTE: Procuring Contracting Officer's (PCO) Authority. The PCO is the only person authorized to approve changes in any of the requirements under this SOW and any provisions contained elsewhere in this contract. In the event the Contractor implements any such change at the direction of any person other than the PCO, the change will be considered to have been made without authority.

3.1 Customer Interface The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor personnel interfacing with customers shall conduct themselves in a professional manner to include being courteous, polite, respectful, and speak English.

3.2 Information Requests The Contractor shall ensure responses to requests for information and data are only provided to the primary COTR or alternate COTR. 3.3 Technology Insertion, Systems Integration and Systems Engineering The Contractor shall design, develop, and integrate new equipment technologies into the B-1B AN/APQ-164 Low Observable Antenna (LOA) overhaul, test and repair facility as required to accomplish the requirements of this SOW. Specifically, the design, development, installation and deployment of a new AN/APQ-164 Antenna Array Test Set (AATS) will be one of the key tasks generated from the SOW. New equipment shall provide at a minimum, identical functionality as the current AATS and all test results and data output formats from the B-1B AN/APQ-164 LOA AATS will be fully portable to and interchangeable with the B-1B AN/APQ-164 LOA Gimbal Test Set (GTS), Memory Module Test Set (MMTS) and the Range Array Test Set.

3.4 Software Development, Modification and Revising 6

3.4.1 Development The Contractor shall develop, design and integrate new test software into the B-1B AN/APQ-164 LOA overhaul, test and repair facility as required to accomplish the requirements of this SOW. Specifically, the development design and integration of new software for performing tests on the AATS to the AN/APQ-164 LOA as described in US Air Force Technical Order 12P1-4-30-8-4. The Contractor shall use COTS software and firmware to fullest extent possible. The Contractor shall provide all source code developed to meet the requirements of this SOW with unlimited rights for Government Usage.

3.4.2 Modification or Revising Source Code The Contractor shall, prior to making any revisions or modifications to computer programs or Test Program Sets (TPS) currently used on the AATS, submit an AF Form 1243 requesting authorization to modify the existing Computer Program Identification Number(s) (CPIN) for internal coordination to the COTR. Upon successful completion of the final acceptance test the Contractor shall resubmit the AF Form 1243 to the COTR requesting a revision to the affected CPIN(s). The Contractor shall provide all source code modified or revised to meet the requirements of this SOW with unlimited rights for Government Usage. 3.5 Installation, Removal and Acceptance Test Schedule The Contractor shall have sixty (60) work days after arrival of the AATS at the installation site on TAFB to complete the removal of the existing AATS and installation of the new AATS and to successfully complete the final acceptance test.

3.6 Transportation, Installation and Removal The contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, supervision, transportation, materials, structural installation requirements, field testing, waste handling/transportation/disposal and any other incidentals necessary to remove existing AATS and install the new AATS. 3.6.1 Transportation The Contractor shall provide for the covered transportation of the AATS from the origin to the installation site at Tinker AFB. 3.6.2 Rigging The Contractor shall furnish all labor and material handling equipment required for off-loading the AATS at the final destination at Tinker AFB. The Contractor shall be responsible for the disposal of all crating, skids and packing materials 3.6.3 Installation/Assembly The Contractor shall furnish all personnel, equipment and materials necessary to install and assemble the AATS and any associated subassemblies at Tinker AFB. 7

3.6.4 Utilities Hook-Up The Contractor shall furnish all personnel, equipment and materials necessary to connect the AATS to TAFB provided "rough-in" 208 VAC, 60 Hz and 115 VAC, 400 Hz electrical services that are available within twenty-five (25) feet of final connection points. Contractor furnished transformers shall be of the "shielded" type and all electrical work shall be IAW National Electric Codes (NEC). The Contractor shall provide installation drawings showing a dimensioned top view of the AATS along with applicable electrical requirements ninety (90) days prior to delivery to enable Government lead time of "roughed-in" utilities and foundation. Equipment grounding requirements shall be indicated on drawings and the installation of such grounding requirements shall be the responsibility of the Contractor. The Contractor shall deliver drawings electronically in AutoCAD format. 3.6.5 Removal The Contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, supervision, transportation, materials, structural installation requirements, field testing, waste handling/transportation/disposal and any other incidentals necessary to remove existing AATS.

3.7 Test Set Functionality, Validation and Verification The new AATS shall perform at minimum, identical tests as the existing AATS on the AN/APQ-164 LOA as described in US Air Force Technical Order 12P1-4-30-8-4. Pass/Fail tests shall indicate "Pass" for test results within limits and in the case of a failed test the failure shall be identified by its proper circuit and/or component name. Pass/Fail test reports shall include quantitative test results as required by US Air Force Technical Order 12P1-4-30-8-4. The new AATS shall perform an initial continuity test at low power on the AN/APQ-164 LOA assembly, testing for shorted or grounded components or wires to prevent excessive current from damaging the AATS or the AN/APQ-164 LOA assembly under test. 3.7.1 Test and Evaluation For the B-1B LOA test facilities, the Contractor shall develop, write and provide test programs, acceptance test plans (ATP) and procedures IAW Contract Data Requirements Lists (CDRLs), A001, DI-QCIC-80553A.

3.7.2 Acceptance Test The Contractor shall provide all labor, equipment and materials necessary to satisfactorily conduct and complete the Acceptance Test IAW CDRL A001, DI-QCIC80553A upon completion of installation of the AATS at TAFB. 3.7.3 Alignment/Accuracy Verification Tests Chamber illumination amplitude and phase

8

3.8 Technical Data, Product Data and Documentation The Contractor shall provide two (2) printed sets and one electronic copy of all technical data, product data and documentation described in this section. The Contractor shall provide one (1) electronic set of subject documentation to the PCO and COTR thirty (30) days prior to the shipment of the new AATS and the Contractor shall provide the balance of two (2) printed documentation with the shipment of the new AATS to the installation site at Tinker AFB. The Contractor shall provide all electronic documentation in a Microsoft Office compatible format. The Contractor shall provide all technical data, product data and documentation with unlimited rights for Government usage. 3.8.1 Technical Data The Contractor shall provide the following technical data in the English language; operators, programming, electrical maintenance, electronic maintenance and mechanical maintenance manuals, parts list, illustrated parts breakdown and electrical schematics. The Contractor shall provide all electrical schematics and illustrated parts breakdown drawings in an AutoDesk AutoCAD compatible format. 3.8.2 Product Data The Contractor shall provide as built mechanical drawings of the new AATS in an AutoDesk AutoCAD compatible format. The Contractor shall provide commercial operator and maintenance manuals for all COTS equipment, systems or sub-systems that are integral to the new AATS. 3.8.3 Documentation The Contractor shall provide all operator manuals, maintenance manuals parts lists, schematics and illustrated parts breakdowns in a format compatible with US Air Force Technical Orders. The Contractor shall provide electronic documentation for all required changes to all Technical Orders (TO) affected by the performance of this SOW.

3.9 Warranty The Contractor shall provide a standard warranty on all equipment and/or systems designed, manufactured, installed or modified in support of the requirements of this SOW.

3.10 Training The Contractor shall identify training requirements and shall develop and conduct operator and maintenance training programs for the B-1B LOA test equipment. 3.10.1 Training Manuals, Training Documents and Training Aids

9

The Contractor shall develop a minimum of fifteen (15) training manuals, student handouts and other training documents or training aids to perform operator and maintenance training on the AATS. The Contractor shall provide all training manuals, student handouts and other training documents or training aids in an electronic format. All training manuals, student handouts and other training documents developed shall become the property of the Government. 3.10.2 Training Schedule The Contractor shall provide the following on-site training; five (5) days of operator and three (3) days of maintenance training for a maximum of fifteen (15) Government personnel. On-site training shall be conducted during the respective shops operating hours of 0545 to 1430 and be scheduled to not conflict with Government holidays. Training shall be conducted after successful completion of acceptance testing (4.6.6). The Contractor shall provide all training material in the English language.

3.11 Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) Hardware The Contractor shall ensure that COTS hardware is used to the fullest extent possible in the design, development and construction of the new AATS

3.12 Program Progress Report The Contractor shall develop and maintain processes to evaluate and monitor progress made by the Contractor in accomplishing the requirements of this SOW. The Contractor shall develop, maintain and deliver a Contractor's Progress, Status and Management Report monthly (CDRL A004, DI-MGMT-80227). 3.13 Meetings The Contractor shall support and attend the following meetings held at the Contractor's facility, OC-ALC or by teleconference as mutually agreed upon by the PCO, COTR and the Contractor. 3.13.1 Quarterly Meeting The Contractor shall develop and deliver agenda topics to the PCO and COTR and brief project status, project schedule and risk assessment/mitigation. The Contractor shall provide meeting agenda topics no later than (NLT) fifteen working days prior to the quarterly meeting IAW CDRL A002, DI-ADMIN-81249A. The Contractor shall develop and deliver meeting minutes IAW CDRL A003, DI-ADMIN-81250A. 3.13.2 Working Group Meetings Meetings shall be held on a monthly basis and combined quarterly. The Contractor shall develop and deliver agenda topics to the PCO and COTR and brief project status, project schedule and risk assessment/mitigation NLT five (5) workdays prior to the Working Group meeting IAW CDRL A002, DI-ADMIN-81249A. The Contractor shall develop and deliver meeting minutes IAW CDRL A003, DI-ADMIN-81250A.

10

3.13.3 Preliminary Design Review Meeting A Preliminary Design Review Meeting will be held upon the completion of thirty-five (35) percent of the design effort required by this SOW. The Preliminary Design Review Meeting shall be combined with the Quarterly Meeting or the Working Group Meeting or both. The Preliminary Design Review Meeting may be held at the Contractors Facility, OC-ALC or by teleconference as mutually agreed upon by the PCO, COTR and the Contractor. The Contractor shall develop and deliver meeting minutes IAW CDRL A003, DI-ADMIN-81250A. 3.13.4 Critical Design Review Meeting A Critical Design Review Meeting shall be held upon completion of ninety (90) percent of the design effort required by this SOW. The Critical Design Review Meeting shall be combined with the Quarterly Meeting or the Working Group Meeting or both. The Critical Design Review Meeting may be held at the Contractors facility, OC-ALC or by teleconference as mutually agreed upon by the PCO, COTR and Contractor. The Contractor shall develop and deliver meeting minutes IAW CDRL A003, DI-ADMIN-81250A.

3.14 Point of Contact An Emergency and Project Point of Contact Telephone List shall be jointly developed. The Contractor shall provide the Emergency and Project Point of Contact Telephone List to the PCO and COTR.

3.15 Project Clean-up The Contractor shall be responsible for daily and final project clean-up of all affected areas, including but not limited to; the interior work site, utilized roadway, utilized facility aisles, utilized ramps and outside lay down area. All generated debris, waste materials and trash shall be swept up and removed.

3.16 Chemical Usage and Approval All chemicals utilized during the performance of this SOW shall be approved by TAFB's HAZMAT Office prior to the Contractor bringing chemicals on base. The Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) of proposed chemicals shall be furnished to the PCO and COTR ten (10) working days in advance to obtain necessary authorization of proposed chemicals.

11

APPENDIX A ACRONYMS AATS AFB AFMAN AFI AFOSH AFTO ANSI ASQC CAP CDRL CO COTR COTS CPIN DoD DSN DSM FAC FOD GFM GFP GTS HAZ-MAT HMMP IAW ISO ITO LAN LDD LOA LRU MMTS MS NAC NLT OC-ALC OSHA PA PCO PLCO PWS QA QAE QAP Antenna Array Test Set Air Force Base. Air Force Manual. Air Force Instruction. Air Force Occupational Safety and Health. Air Force Technical Order American National Standards Institute. American Society for Quality Control. Contractor Acquired Property. Contract Data Requirements List. Contracting Officer. Contracting Officers Technical Representative. Commercial Off The Shelf Computer Program Identification Number Department of Defense. Defense Switching Network. Defense Messaging System. Functional Area Chief. Foreign Object Damage. Government Furnished Materials. Government Furnished Property. Gimbal Test Set Hazardous Material. Hazardous Materials Management Program. In Accordance With. International Standards Organization. Interim Technical Order. Local Area Network. Loss, Damage, Or Destruction. Low Observable Antenna Line Replaceable Unit Memory Module Test Set Microsoft. National Agency Check. No Later Than. Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Property Administrator. Procurement Contracting Officer. Plant Clearance Officer. Performance Work Statement. Quality Assurance. Quality Assurance Evaluator. Quality Assurance Personnel 12

RAC RATS RP SS SRU SSN TAFB TAFBI TCTO TO TPS UPS USPS

Rapid Action Change. Radar Antenna Test Set Real Property. Service Summary. Shop Replaceable Unit Social Security Number. Tinker Air Force Base. Tinker Air Force Base Instruction. Time Compliance Technical Order. Technical Order. Test Program Set United Postal Service. United States Postal Service.

13

APPENDIX B DEFINITIONS Base Closure Dates: Any day the base closes other than on a National Holiday (i.e. the day after Thanksgiving). Contract Manager: Contractor personnel who shall be responsible for the performance of the work and shall have full authority to act for the Contractor on all matters relating to the performance of this contract. Government Property: All property owned by or leased to the Government or acquired by the Government under the terms of the contract. It includes both Government-furnished property and Contractor-acquired property. This includes facilities, material, special tooling, special test equipment, and agency-peculiar property. Government Furnished Plant Equipment: Personal property of a capital nature (including equipment, machine tools, test equipment, furniture, vehicles, and accessory and auxiliary items) for use in manufacturing supplies, in performing services, or for any administrative or general plant purpose. It does not include special tooling, special test equipment. Government Furnished Material: Property that may be incorporated into or attached to a deliverable end item or that may be consumed or expended in performing a contract. This includes, assemblies, components, parts, raw materials, and small tools, and supplies that may be consumed in normal use in performing a contract. Government Furnished Property: Property in the possession of, or directly acquired by the Government and subsequently made available to the Contractor. Hazardous Material: Any material which by virtue of its potentially dangerous nature, requires controls to assure adequate protection. This excludes ammunition, weapons, explosives, actuated devices, propellants, pyrotechnics, chemical and biological warfare materials, medical and pharmaceutical supplies, and bulk fuels. INTERIM Clearance: A temporary clearance given before security clearances are obtained. Network Restricted Areas: Any area on the network that is restricted and requires a clearance to gain access. Phase-In Joint Inventory: An inventory conducted by both the Contractor and a Government representative in order to determine the working order and condition of all equipment during the phase-in period.

13

Phase-Out Joint Inventory: An inventory conducted at the end of the last performance period by both the Contractor and a Government representative in order to determine the working order and condition of government property. Plant Clearance Officer: An authorized representative of the contracting officer assigned responsibility for plant clearance. Plant Equipment: Personal property of a capital nature (including equipment, machine tools, test equipment, furniture, vehicles, and accessory and auxiliary items) for use in manufacturing supplies, in performing services, or for any administrative or general plant purpose. It does not include special tooling or special test equipment. Property Control System: A system that is established in writing by the Contractor in to control, protect, preserve, and maintain all Government property. Quality Manager: Personnel who are responsible for managing the quality assurance system, scheduling and directing inspections and audit activities, developing and implementing corrective and preventive actions, developing and providing quality inspection and audit metrics, and for executing quality plans. Quality Systems: Model for Quality Assurance in Production, Installation, and Servicing. Real Property: Land and rights in land, ground improvements, utility distribution systems, and buildings and other structures. It does not include foundations and other work necessary for installing special tooling, special test equipment, or plant equipment. Refuse: Includes all household-generated waste, non-hazardous commercial and industrial waste, and other similar non-hazardous waste material intended for disposal. Not included are explosives and incendiary waste, and contaminated waste from medical and radiological processes. Also excludes recyclable materials source separated from the waste stream specifically for recycling.

14

