Answers to Questions Received in Response to Solicitation 2012-90-123b







Q:           Do you currently us an on-demand mass notification system?  If, yes what was last year’s budget for this service.  This is not necessary for quoting purposes.

Q:           Please describe the type of contacts that will be managed in the data base such as Employees, Contractors, Visitors, or is this for Citizens who need to Opt-In to receive HHS bulletins etc?  Federal employees, intermittent Federal Employees, PHS  Officers, and Contractors

Q:           Will the On-Demand Service need Certification and Accreditation against NIST IT Security Guidelines?  System will be required to operate across federal IT infrastructure and must be able to meet all security requirements.

Q:           Will the service need to support Safeguards that secure personally identifiable information?  No.  PII will not be disclosed, only contact information.

Q:           Will HHS be using an employee and / or contractor database that needs to be uploaded into the system and maintained?  If yes please describe how often you will add contacts or members.  This will be a continual process as the identified administrators will add, delete, and modify as required.

Q:           What is the maximum number at any one time of contacts loaded into the system during the year.  >15,000

Q:           What types and models of TAP devices will you need supported.  Need definition of TAP to provide proper response.  Contact will be made via telephone and email so presumably home telephones, blackberrys, smart phones , and tablets will receive the notifications.

Q:           Will you need to notify contacts by their current mobile location on a map?  Not by map but by number/email assigned to device.

Q:           Will this service be used for emergency grade notification where minutes count and lives and property may be at stake.  Yes.

Q:           Can you provide a sample use case of the service.  Disaster notification to NDMS Team Members to stand by for deployment.

Q:           Can you provide an estimate of the number of notifications per quarter? By device type, Telephone, SMS smtp, SMS smpp, TAP, Satellite, Home Phone, Cell, Smart Device etc.  Cannot provide.  System will be tested periodically due to intermittent status and COOP requirements.

Q:           You indicate the need to support “Smart Devices”.  Do you require that each device and its Operating System be supported independently so that they a specific user experience or would a general mobile interface be acceptable?  General is sufficient as long as the notification is not altered.

Q:           Will you need call transfer to a 1-800 number Yes

Q:           Will you need the ability to add attachments or an embedded url for automatic transfer to an HHS web site?  Yes.

Q:           Will need the capability to provide a 1-800 number for any calls that go into voice mail so that the recipient can call back and confirm with a pin and leave accountability information as well?  No.

Q:           Will you need international notification and if yes what country’s?  Not international but all US OCONUS locations.



Q: How many alert recipients are currently in the system or are alerts being sent to at this time?  The Government is looking for unlimited.  The Government is not looking for a per alert price but an unlimited plan.



Q: Does each recipient maintain his/her own data in the system or is data maintenance done by an HHS employee?  See question above.

Q: How many alerts were sent last year?  The Government is looking for unlimited.  The Government is not looking for a per alert price but an unlimited plan.

Q: How many phone messages were sent last year to all intended recipients? (This is NOT the number of alerts.) The Government is looking for unlimited.  The Government is not looking for a per phone message price but an unlimited plan.





Q: Do you anticipate the same phone message usage as last year? See Above Question.



Q: If not, what number of phone messages will be needed for anticipated usage for this year?  See above



Q: How many text alerts were sent last year? The Government is looking for unlimited.  The Government is not looking for a per text  price but an unlimited plan.





Q: How many text  messages were sent last year to all intended recipients? (This is NOT the number of alerts.) The Government is not looking for a per text price but an unlimited plan.



Q: Do you anticipate the same text message usage as last year? The Government is not looking for a per text price but an unlimited plan.





Q: If not, what number of text messages will be needed for anticipated usage for this year? The Government is not looking for a per text price but an unlimited plan.





Q: How many minutes were used for conference bridging last year?  The Government is not looking for a per minute price but an unlimited plan.





Q: Do you anticipate the same number of conference bridging minute’s usage as last year? The Government is not looking for a per minute price but an unlimited plan.





Q: If not, what number of conference bridging minutes is anticipated usage for this year? The Government is not looking for a per minute price but an unlimited plan.





Q: How many pager alerts were sent last year? The Government is not looking for a per alert price but an unlimited plan.





Q: How many paging  messages were sent last year to all intended recipients? (This is NOT the number of alerts.) The Government is not looking for a per message price but an unlimited plan.





Q:  Do you anticipate the same pager message usage as last year?   See above.



Q:  How many pager numbers are currently in the system or are alerts being sent to at this time? See Above



Q:  What are the top three primary uses of the system? This is not necessary to quote.



